

     ----CITATION----
        Brevier Legislative Reports, Volume II (1859). Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/law/brevier/VAA8558-02
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS: EMBRACING SHORT-HAND
                        SKETCHES OF THE JOURNALS AND DEBATES OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF
                        INDIANA,
                    CONVENED IN REGULAR SESSION On the 6th Day of January,
                        1859
                
                By ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER, Reporters. 

                
                    INDIANAPOLIS:
                    DAILY INDIANA STATE SENTINEL, PRINT.
                    1859.
                
                 - 
                        
                            
                                VOL. II
                            
                        
                    
                



            


            
            
                
                    
                        
                            Resolved, That the Door-keeper be directed to contract with A. E.
                                Drapier & Son, for six hundred copies of "Brevier Legislative
                                Reports," of the proceedings and debates of the present General
                                Assembly, after the style of their reports in the "Legislative
                                Sentinel"said reports to be made up from the columns of some daily
                                newspaper printed in the town of Indianapolis and laid upon the
                                desks of members as fast as they shall complete sixteen pages in
                                double newspaper column; provided the cost of the same shall not
                                exceed one dollar per copy the House adopting a similar
                                resolution.[Senate Journal, January 14.
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                            Resolved, That the Door-keeper be directed to contract with A. E.
                                Drapier & Son, for five hundred copies of "Brevier Legislative
                                reports" of the proceedings and debates of the present General
                                Assembly, after the style of their reports of the proceedings of the
                                late extra session in the "Legislative Sentinel"said reports to be
                                made up from the columns of some daily newspaper printed in the town
                                of Indianapolis, and laid upon the desks of members as fast as they
                                shall complete sixteen pages in double newspaper column ; provided
                                the cost of the same shall not exceed one dollar per copy-the Senate
                                adopting a similar resolution. [House Journal, January 21.
                        
                    
                

            
        

        
            
            
                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 21 1859.
                        No. 1.
                    

                    
                        INDIANA LEGISLATURE  IN SENATE.
                        
                             THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 1859. 
                        
                         The Senate of the fortieth General Assembly of the State of Indiana,met
                            in regular bi-ennal session, and was called to order at nine o'clock A.
                            M., by JAMES H. VAWTER, Esq., the principal Secretary of the last
                            session, who directed that Senators take their seats as their names are
                            called by the counties which they represent, whereupon the following
                            named Senators appeared and took their seats: 
                        
                            
                                
                                    

                                        From the county of Allen--Allen Hamilton.
                                        From the county of Bartholomew--Smith Jones.
                                        From the counties of Benton, Warren and White--Geo D.
                                            Wagner.
                                        From the counties of Clinton and Carroll--James
                                            Odell.
                                        From the counties of Crawford and Orange--Quinton
                                            Lomax.
                                        From the county of Dearborn--Cornelius O'Brien.
                                        From the counties of Fayette and Union--Thomas W
                                            Bennett.
                                        From the county of Floyd--D. C. Anthony.
                                        From the counties of Grant and Madison--Harvey
                                            Craven.
                                        From the counties of Green and Owen--J. W.
                                            Conley.
                                        From the counties of Huntington and Whitley--James R.
                                            Slack.
                                        From the counties of Johnson and Morgan--W. H.
                                            Jennings.
                                        From the counties of Knox and Daviess--James D.
                                            Williams.
                                        From the counties of Kosciusko and Wabash--James D.
                                            Conner.
                                        From the counties of Lake, Porter and Jasper--David
                                            Turner.
                                        From the counties of Martin and Lawrence--T. R.
                                            Cobb.
                                        From the counties of Monree and Brown--W. C.
                                            Tarkington.
                                        From the counties of Ohio and Switzerland--Benjamin
                                            Robinson.
                                        From the counties of Parke and Vermillion--George K.
                                            Steele.
                                        From the counties of Posey and Vanderburg--M. T.
                                            Carnahan.
                                        From the county of Tippecanoe--M. C. Culver.
                                        From the counties of Warrick, Spencer and Perry--John
                                            C. Shoemaker.
                                        From the county of Wayne Othniel Beeson.From the
                                            counties of Marshall and St. Joseph--Rufus Brown.
                                        From the counties of Cass, Howard and Pulaski--Charles
                                            D. Murray.
                                        From the counties of Clark and Scott--David
                                            McClure.
                                        From the counties of Clay and Putnam--Archibald
                                            Johnston.
                                        From the county of Decatur--John F. Stevens.
                                        From the counties of Delaware and Blackford--Walter
                                            March.
                                        From the county of Fountain--Isaac A. Rice.
                                        From the counties of Gibson, Pike and Dubois--John
                                            Hargrove.
                                        From the counties of Hamilton and TiptonJohn
                                            Green.
                                        From the counties of Hendricks and Boone--Solomon
                                            Blair.
                                        From the county of Henry--Isaac Kinley.
                                        From the counties of Jennings and Jackson--James E.
                                            Wilson.
                                        From the counties of Lagrange and Elkhart--John
                                            Thompson.
                                        From the counties of Laporte and Starke--Morgan H.
                                            Weir.
                                        From the county of Marion--John S. Bobbs.
                                        From the counties of St. Joseph, Marahnll, Miami and
                                            Fulton--Hugh Miller.
                                        From the county of Montgomery--Lewis Wallace.
                                        From the counties of Noble,DeKalb and Steuben--Alanson
                                            H. Hendry.
                                        From the county of RandolphDaniel Hill.From the county
                                            of Rush--Stanley Cooper.
                                        From the counties of Shelby and Hancock--David S.
                                            Gooding.
                                        From the counties of Vigo and Sullivan--William E.
                                            McLean.
                                        From the counties of Washington and Harrison--Horace
                                            Heffren.
                                    
                                    The following named Senators were absent:
                                    
                                        From the counties of Adams, Wells and Jay David
                                            Studabaker.
                                        From the county of Franklin--Aaron B Line.
                                    
                                
                            
                        

                        
                            ELECTION OF PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE.
                            Mr. MURRAY. Mr. Secretary; I understand that the Lieutenant Governor
                                is absent, and will remain absent for some time; I therefore move
                                that the Senate proceed to the election of a President pro tem.
                             Mr. GOODING. I hope, sir, that the election will not be gone into
                                until we have a full Senate. I see by the call of the Secretary that
                                two Democratic Senators are absent and that all the Republican
                                Senators are in their places. The probability is that those two
                                democratic Senators would be here before two o'clock, and I hope
                                Republican Senators will not proceed to an election until there is a
                                full Senate. Republican Senators upon this floor have shown
                                themselves to be liberal towards us heretofore, and I hope they will
                                be equally iberal on the present occasion. I hope they will be fair
                                and magnanimous, if you please, and not take advantage of the
                                temporary absence of Democratic Senators. When the Senate is full I
                                never bolt, and whoever may be the choice of the Senate I am willing
                                should be presiding officer. I make the suggestion to postpone this
                                election in the kindest feeling, and in the mean time, am willing
                                that any Republican Senator shall preside until we get a full
                                Senate.


                            
                             Mr. HAMILTON. I hope this matter will not be put off. I claim to be
                                a Democrat, but I go for an election now. I don't care who is the
                                nominee of any party. We are here under a per diem, and we are
                                expected to do our duty. 
                             Mr. STEELE. I can not see what the Senator from Hancock[Mr. Gooding]
                                can gain by a postponement till two o'clock. If I could see any
                                advantage to be gained by it I would be willing to postpone. 
                             Mr HEFFREN. I think we might as well go on now, as to postpone. We
                                are powerless; I know that by past experience. I am satisfied we
                                can't elect a straight-out Democrat. They have a majority,and we
                                might as well let them elect now as to go on till this afternoon or
                                to-morrow. We may as well be beat today - we may as well go down
                                with our flag flying one time as another. If there are any chances
                                for success, I would be willing to postpone. 
                             Mr. GOODING. The Senator from Parke, [Mr. Steele] talks about
                                gaining an advantage. I am asking no advantage. The idea I wished to
                                advance was this: The presiding officer is to preside over the whole
                                Senate, and the Senate should give the expression of that choice. 
                             Mr. Murray's motion was agreed to. 
                             Mr. MURRAY. I nominate the Hon. John R. Cravens for President pro tempore of this Senate.
                             Mr. SLACK. I nominate the Hon. Lewis Wallace.
                            The Secretary then called Senators for their viva
                                    voce votes, and reported as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        For Mr. Cravens - Messrs. Anthony,
                                            Beeson, Bennett, Blair, Bobbs, Brown, Conner, Cooper,
                                            Craven, Culver, Green, Hendry,Hill, Kinley.
                                            March,Murray, Rice, Robinson, Steele, Stevens, Thompson,
                                            Turner, Wagner and Weir-24. 
                                        
                                            For Mr. Wallace - Messrs. Carnahan,
                                            Cobb, Conley, Fisk, Gooding, Hamilton, Hargrove,
                                            Heffren, Jennings, Johnston, Jones, Lomax, McCluro,
                                            McLean, Miller, O'Brien, Odell, Shoemaker, Slack,
                                            Tarkington, Williams and Wilson-22. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             The Secretary declared Mr. Cravens duly elected President, pro
                                tempore, of the Senate for the present session, and called upon
                                Senators Wallace and Murray, to conduct the President elect to the
                                Chair.
                             The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Snators: In the
                                exercise of a constitutional privilege, and in discharging a
                                constitutional duty, you have conferred upon me an unexpected honor,
                                which, I assure you, I can fully appreciate, but I can also assure
                                you that I can as fully appreciate the labor and responsibility
                                inseperable from that honor. I am not so skilled in the use of that
                                language which would prompt its employment to conceal emotions that,
                                on occasions like the present, and ought to be, but the natural
                                expression of a grateful heart under the influences of the most
                                generous impulses. For the consciousness that your partiality, in
                                thus selecting me to preside over your deliberations, has been
                                dictated more, perhaps, by considerations of a personal character,
                                than from any conviction on your part, of superior ability on mine
                                to discearge the responsible duties seems only to increase the
                                obligation imposed on me, whilst it enhances the honor conferred by
                                you.
                            In accepting at your hand the honor of the posion, I also engage to
                                discharge its duties, but I do so in the full assurance that you
                                will extend to the want of experience and limited knowledge of
                                parliamentary usage, which, I know, will be but too often manifest
                                to you, and a source of great embarrassment to myselfthat liberal
                                and kind indulgence to which I am so deeply indebted for your
                                present distinguished consideration. I accept it in the further
                                hope, too, that your worthy President, the Lieutenant Governor, will
                                be but temporarily absent, and that he will not be disappointed in
                                the visit he now makes to a Southern clime for the complete and
                                entire renewal of his health, but he may soon return to you and his
                                constitutional public duties, fully restored to health and public
                                usefulness.
                            With these remarks, after again returning my thanks for this
                                compliment to my constituents, I will refrain from longer detaining
                                the Senate from its further organization.
                        
                        
                            ELECTION OF SECRETARIES.
                             Mr. MURRAY. I move that the Senate proceed to the election of
                                Principal Secretary, and nominate James II. Vawter, of Jennings
                                county, for that office.
                            The motion was agreed to by consent, and no other nomination being
                                made--
                            The names of Senators were called for their votes, and every Senator
                                voted for Mr. Vawter except Messrs. Jennings, Line and
                                Studabaker.
                             Thereupon Mr. Vawter was declared elected and the oath of office was
                                administered to him by Judge James M. Hanna.
                             Mr. HAMILTON nominated James W. Tyner, of Miami county, for
                                Assistant Secretary of the Senate.
                            Mr. CONLEY nominated Henry S. Cawthorn, of Vincennes.
                            The roll was called, and Mr. Tyner having received a majority of all
                                the votes cast, was declared duly elected, and received the oath of
                                office at the hands of Judge Hanna.
                        
                        
                             ELECTION OF DOOR-KEEPERS.
                             Mr. HEFFREN moved that the Senate proceed to the election of
                                Door-keepers, and nominated George W. Sample, of Hancock county, for
                                principal Door-keeper.
                            Mr. GREEN nominated A. F. Shortridge, of Marion county, for the same
                                position.
                            The Secretary called the roll, and Mr. Shortridge having received a
                                majority of all the votes cast was declared duly elected Principal
                                Door-keeper of the Senate during the present session.
                            The Secretary called the roll, and Mr. Shortridge having received a
                                majority of all the votes cast was declared duly elected Principal
                                Door-keeper of the Senate during the present session.
                            Mr. JONES nominated Col. John Osborn for Assistant Door-keeper. 
                            
                            Mr. McLEAN nominated Benjamin F. Clark, of Vigo, for the same place. 
                            The roll was called with the same result as the ballot for principal
                                Door-keeper, except that Mr. Conner did not vote, and that Mr.
                                Wilson voted for Col. Osborn.
                             Col. Osborn was thereupon declared elected. 
                             The PRESIDENT, pro tem., then administered the oath of office to Mr.
                                Shortridge, and to Col. Osborn.
                            Mr. WAGNER. The State Board of Agriculture meets in this city to-day,
                                and I want this Senate Chamber for its meeting. I offer for adoption
                                the following:


                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,Resolved, That when the Senate
                                            adjourn it adjourn till to-morrow an 9 o'clock.
                                    
                                
                            
                             The resolution was adopted by consent.
                            And then the Senate adjourned



                        

                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                        
                            
                                THURSDAY, JANUARY 6, 1859.
                            
                        
                        The House of Representatives of the Fortieth General Assembly of the
                            State of Indiana, met this day, at 9 o'clock, in regular biennial
                            session, and was called to order by Mr. GORDON, of Marion, the Speaker
                            of the former sessionMr. G. taking the Chair for the purpose.
                        Mr. PARRETT and Mr. TURPIE objecting to Mr. GORDON taking the Chair in
                            virtue of his Speakership for the former session.
                        Mr. GORDON taking the Chair in virtue of his Speakership for the former
                            session.
                         On motion by Mr. GORDON, by unanimous consent -
                        Mr. DAVIS, of Floyd, assumed the Chair, and directed the former Clerk to
                            call the roll.The Clerk reported 57 members present and answering to
                            their names.
                         Mr. GORDON. Having now a temporary organization, prepared to make orders
                            and have them issued under the hand of the presiding officer, I move
                            that the absentees be sent for.
                         The motion was agreed to without a division and the former Door-keeper
                            was again dispatched.
                         Mr. EDWARDS submitted that the first thing in the organization of the
                            House of Representatives was that the members present should be sworn
                            in, and he made that motion.It was adopted by consont.
                         And then the honorable James M. Hanna, one of the Judges of the Supreme
                            Court of the State of Indiana, being called by the CHAIRMAN, came
                            forward and administered the oath of a Representative to the members
                            present, standing around the Speaker's chair, in the following words,
                            viz: "You and each of you do swear that you will support the
                            Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of
                            Indiana, and that you will faithfully discharge your duties as
                            Representatives of the State, in the present General Assembly; so help
                            you God;" and their names were recorded in the following order:
                        
                            From the county of Allen -M. McLain, C. Wheeler.
                            Adams---.
                            Bartholomew - A. G. Collier.
                            Boone - Clark Devol.
                            Boone and Hendrick - 0. S. Hamilton
                            Brown - Prosser.
                            Clark - A. J. Carr.
                            Carroll - Nathaniel Black.
                            Crawford - David Summers.
                            Clinton - James B. Newton.
                            Cass - C.B. Knowlton.
                            Clay - Lewis Row. 
                            Dearborn - William Tebbs.
                            Daviess R. A. Clements, jr.
                            Delaware - William Brotherton.
                            Decatur - William J. Robinson.
                            DeKalb - Miles Waterman.
                            Dubois - M. Kempf.
                            Elkhart - John Thompson 
                            Elkhart and Lagrange - Charles L. Murray.
                            Floyd - John S. Davis.
                            Fayette and Union - Geo. W. Treadway.
                            Franklin - Thomas Gifford.
                            Fulton - Banner Lawhead.
                            Fountain - Horatio R. Claypool.
                            Green - Elijah H. C. Cavins.
                            Grant - William Hall.
                            Gibson - Isaac H. Wood.
                            Harrison - Henry Jordan.
                            Hancock - Samuel Shockley.
                            Hamilton and Tipton - Addison Boxley.
                            Henry - J. H Mellett.
                            Howard - J Harrison.
                            Hendricks - Levi Ritter.
                            Huntington and Whitley - J. B. Firestone.
                            Johnson - Augustus Keefer.
                            Johnson and Morgan - 0. R. Dougherty. 
                            Jennings - John T. Shields.
                            Jay-
                            Jefferson - D. C. Branham, J. L. Mansfield.
                            Jackson - S. S. Early.
                            Knox - J.N.Eastham.
                            Kosciusko - Sylvanus Davidson.
                            Kosciusko and Wabash - Andrew J. Power.
                            Lake - Elihu Griffin.
                            Laporte - M. G. Sherman. W. H. Scott.
                            Lawrence - Robert Boyd.
                            Lagrange - Levi L. Wildman.
                            Madison - William A. Thompson.
                            Miami - William Smith.
                            Marion - J. M.Gordon, I. N Cotton.
                            Morgan - Cyrus Whetzel. 
                            Monroe - Martin C. Hunter.
                            Montgomery - James F. Harney.
                            Martin - C. S. Dobbins.
                            Marshall and Starke- W. G. Parke.
                            Noble - H. S. Stanley.
                            Ohio and Switzerland - W. H. Gregory.
                            Owen - John H. Martin.
                            Orange - David S. Lewis.
                            Posey - Hassal Nelson.
                            Pike - G. W. Massey.
                            Porter - Thomas J. Merrifield.
                            Parke - Samuel H. Johnston.
                            Putnam - I. N. Rynearson, J. B. Fordyce.
                            Pulaski and Jasper - D. Snyder.
                            Perry - Hamilton Smith.
                            Ripley - William L. Hartley.
                            Randolph - Sylas Colgrove.
                            Rush - Festus Hall
                            Shelby and Hancock - Thomas Clayton
                            Shelby - William Major.
                            Sullivan - David Usrey.
                            Spencer - Calvin Jones
                            Scott - T. M. Sullivan.
                            Steuben - Philo Clark.
                            St. Joseph - Thomas S. Stanfield.
                            Tippecanoe - C. Miller, J. N. Stiles.
                            Vermillion - Aquilla Nebeker.
                            Vanderburg - Ben Stinson.
                            Vanderburg and Posey - James E. Blythe.
                            Vigo - John P. Baird, W. K. Edwards.
                            Wabash - John Comstock.
                            Warren - R M. Nebeker.
                            Wayne W. C. Jeffries, J. H. Hamilton, J. M. Austin.
                            Warrick - William Parrett.
                            Washington - J. A. Bowman.
                        







                        
                        Mr. COLGROVE. Mr. Chairman I move to proceed now to the election of
                            Speaker.
                         Mr. PROSSER moved that the House take a recess till two o'clock.
                         Mr. GORDON and Mr. COLGROVE demanded the yeas and nays, which being
                            ordered and taken resulted--yeas 48, nays 49
                         So the House refused to take a recess.
                         On motion by Mr. JEFFR1ES, Mr. Whiteman of Jay, now appeared and
                            received the oath of a representative.
                         Mr. DOUGHERTY moved that the House take a recess till half-past two
                            o'clock, which motion being entertained under the circumstances
                            explained by the Chairman.
                        On motion by Mr. GORDON, it was laid on the table, by yeas 52, nays
                            44.
                         Mr. COLGROVE demanded the previous question on his motion.
                        Mr. KEEFER demanded a call of the House, which proceeded, and Messrs.
                            Kelly, Lewis and Whiteman, were reported absent.
                         Here followed a series of ineffectual priviledged motions, skilfully put
                            and defended against time, by Mr. Keefer, Mr. Harney, Mr. Sullivan, Mr.
                            Turpie and others, till the House took a recess till two o'clock.

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. KELLY, of Adams, and Mr. LEWIS, of Orange, now appeared and took
                                the oath of a Representative, at the hand of Mr. Davis in the
                                Chair.
                             The CHAIRMAN stated the question to be, "Will the House second the
                                demand for the previous question, on the motion to go into the
                                election of Speaker!"
                             Mr. COLGROVE demanded a call of the House, which proceeded; and 97
                                members answered. Absentees--Messr. Griffin, Hartley and Murray.
                            On motion by Mr. PROSSER, the former, Door-keeper was dispatched for
                                the absentees, and when they were severally reported, excepting Mr.
                                Griffin.
                             Mr. PROSSER desired to inform the plaintiffs in the case,that the
                                defendants were ready for trial. [Laughter.]
                             Mr. DOUGHERTY moved to dispense with further proceedings in the
                                call.
                             Mr. COLGROVE and Mr. HUNTER demanded the yeas and nays, and the
                                House refused to dispense--yeas 48, nays 51.
                            When Mr. GRIFFIN returned, the previous question was recorded, the
                                main question agreed to, and the order of the election of Speaker
                                announced.
                            Mr. DOBBINS nominated James E. Blythe, of Vanderburg.
                             Mr. COLGROVE nominated Jonathan W. Gordon, of Marion.
                             And the vote being taken, viva voce, according to the Constitutional
                                provision, the result was
                            
                                
                                    


                                        For Mr. Gordon--Austin, Bayrd, Boyd,
                                            Boxley, Branham, Brotherton, Cravins, Clark, Colgrove,
                                            Collier, Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Devol, Fordyce,
                                            Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton
                                            of Boone, Hamilton of Wayne, Harrison, Hunter, Jeffries,
                                            Johnston, Jones, Kelley, Major, Mansfield, Mellett,
                                            Miller, Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of
                                            Warren, Parke, Powers, Ritter, Robinson,Rynearson,
                                            Scoott,Sherman, Shields, Smith of Miami, Stiles, Tebbs,
                                            Thompson of Elkhart, Treadway, Whetzel, Whiteman and
                                            Wildman - 50 
                                        
                                             For Mr. Blythe--Black, Bowman, Carr,
                                            Claypool, Clayton, Clements, Davis, Dobbins, Dougherty,
                                            Durham, Early, Eastham, Firestone, Gifford, Hancock,
                                            Harney, Jordan, Keefer, Kempf, Knowlton, Lawhead, Lewis,
                                            McLean, Massey, Merrifield, Nelson, Newton, Parrett,
                                            Prosser, Row, Shockley, Shull, Smith of Perry, Snyder,
                                            Stanley, Stinson, Sullivan, Summers, Thompson of
                                            Madison, Turpie, Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler and Wood -
                                            44.

                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. Blythe and Mr. Gordon paired off.
                            Mr. Durham, when his name was called, said he voted for Mr. Blythe on
                                the assurance of gentlemen who said he had never identified himself
                                with the Know Nothing party.
                            Mr. Edwards voted for R. J. Boyd.
                             Mr. Hartley voted for Horatio Claypool.
                            Mr. Murray was recorded as present and not voting.
                             Mr. Stanfield voted for Mr. Austin.
                            The CHAIRMAN. The whole number of votes cast here is 97. Jonathan W.
                                Gordon having received 50 of these, which is a majority, I declare
                                him to be duly elected Speaker of the present House of
                                Representatives. The gentleman from Jefferson (Mr. Branham) and the
                                gentleman from Vanderburgh (Mr. Blythe) will conduct the Speaker to
                                the Chair.
                             This service being performed - 
                             This service being performedThe SPEAKER returned his thanks
                                appropriately for this renewed expression of the confidence of the
                                House of Representatives; introducing again the argument for the
                                permanency of the organization at the opening of the extra session.
                                [The address is withheld for authentication and will be printed
                                hereafter.]
                             On motion by Mr. HUNTER, the Speaker now received his official oath
                                at the hand of Mr. Davis.
                            Mr. DEVOL submitted a resolution to declare the re-election of the
                                Clerks and Police of the extra session, which, upon objection, he
                                withdrew.
                            On motion by Mr. RITTER, the House proceeded to the election of a
                                Principal Clerk.
                            Mr. SHIELDS nominated Richard J. Ryan.
                            Mr. PARRETT nominated John P. Dunn.
                            Mr. Ryan received 54 votes.
                            Mr. Dunn received 46 votes.
                            Mr. Ryan having received a majority of the hundred votes cast, was
                                declared by the Speaker to be duly elected Principal Clerk of the
                                House of Representatives.
                            The remainder of the officials of the extra session were then
                                re-elected in the following order:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        For First Assistant Clerk - George H.
                                            Chapman received 53 votes; Ellia E. Campbell received 45
                                            votes.
                                        For Door-keeper - For
                                            Door-keeper.Robert Jennings, of Floyd, received 53
                                            votes; Henry Achey, of Marion, received 44 votes.
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                            So George H. Chapman was declared to be duly elected First Assistant
                                Clerk, and Robert Jennings Door-keeper; and the Clerks and
                                Door-keeper received their oath of office at the hand of the
                                Speaker
                            Mr. GIFFORD submitted the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                

                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Senate be informed that
                                            the House of Representatives has organized, by electing
                                            Hon. Jonathan W. Gordon, Speaker; Richard J. Ryan,
                                            Principal Clerk; George H. Chapman, Assistant Clerk;
                                            Robert Jennings, Door-keeper; and that they are ready to
                                            proceed to legislative business.
                                    


                                

                            
                            A message from the Senate, by Mr. Vawter, their Secretary, now
                                announced the organization and election of officers of that body,
                                and their readiness to proceed to business; and also the appointment
                                of a committee to act with a similar committee on the part of the
                                House of Representatives to wait on his Excellency, the Governor,
                                and inquire when it will be convenient for him to deliver his
                                biennial message
                            On motion by Mr. RITTER, the resolution creating these committees was
                                concurred in; and the Speaker appointed Messrs. Ritter, Davis and
                                Blythe, on the part of the House of Representatives.
                            The House then, at 3:38 o'clock, adjourned.
                        
                    


                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1859.
                        
                        
                            MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE.

                            A message from the House of Representatives announced the
                                organization of that body by the election of Jonathan W. Gordon,
                                Speaker; R. J. Ryan, Clerk; G. H. Chapman, Assistant; and Robert
                                Jennings, Door-keeper.
                            Also, that the House has appointed Messrs. Ritter, Davis and Blythe,
                                a committee on the part of that body to act with the committee
                                appointed by the Senate to wait upon the Governor.
                             The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate the order of
                                business, (being the same as was adopted at the last session.)
                            Mr. HEFFREN asked and obtained leave to make a report as follows:
                            MR. PRESIDENT : The select committee appointed by the Senate to act
                                with a like committee on the part of the House to wait upon His
                                Excellency, the Governor, and see at what time it would be
                                convenient for him to deliver his message to this General Assembly,
                                have performed that duty, and report that it will suit his
                                convenience to attend to that duty in the Hall of the House to-day,
                                at 2 o'clock, P. M.
                        


                        
                            NEWSPAPERS AND REPORTING.
                            Mr. GREEN offered the following:


                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper be
                                            directed to contract for and place upon the desks of the
                                            members and officers of the Senate, three copies each of
                                            the Daily Journal and Daily Sentinel, also, three of the
                                            Weekly American, Volksblatt and Fres Press; two of the
                                            aforesaid to be wrapped and stamped ready for
                                            mailing.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. CONNER. A select committee was appointed on yesterday to inquire
                                into the cost of employing an official Reporter, and I think it
                                improper to act upon this resolution until that committee
                                report.
                            Mr. GREEN. Yesterday there was a resolution adopted to inquire into
                                the expediency of having a regular Reporter for this body; and this
                                resolution brings before us directly the question of expediency,
                                which plan we will adopt take the papers as heretofore, or employ a
                                Reporter. Every man in the State wants to know, and feels an
                                interest in how his representative acts and votes upon certain
                                questions; and the report of our proceedings is what I want to send
                                to the country. I put in the weekly American because the reports in
                                that paper have been more full than in any paper that has a reporter
                                on this floor.
                            Mr. HEFFREN. The calculations made by the committee on employing a
                                Reporter, show that for the sixty-one days of this session the cost
                                will not amount to half as much as was spent in the thirty-six days
                                of the last session of the Senate, for newspapers alone. I move to
                                refer this resolution to the select committee appointed yesterday,
                                with reference to the employment of a Reporter.
                            Mr. BOBBS. I would inquire, if the Senate procure a Reporter, whether
                                the daily papers will publish the proceedings?
                            Mr. HEFFREN. The proceedings will be published in the form of the
                                Legislative Sentinel of the last session. The Reporter does it
                                himself. No public printer, or anything else about it
                            Mr. BOBBS. That paper came out in sheets some week or two after the
                                proceedings had transpired, and until I have some knowledge that the
                                papers will publish our reports, I am not prepared to vote.
                            Mr. CONNER. The discussion of this resolution is premature, and
                                inasmuch as a motion has been made to refer this resolution to a
                                committee, I move to amend the motion so that it shall require that
                                committee to inquire into the expediency of taking those papers.
                             Mr. MURRAY thought the papers would publish the reports if the
                                Senate would furnish them. But the trouble was the heavy expense
                                attending the employment of a Stenographer.
                            Mr. BOBBS offered the following amendment to the resolution:
                            
                                

                                    
                                        
                                            " That the committee be directed
                                                to ascertain upon what terms the daily papers will
                                                publish the daily proceedings of the Senate upon the
                                                Senate furnishing such report."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            The amndment was adopted by consent.
                             Mr. GREEN moved to amend the motion to refer so as to give the
                                resolution into the hands of a select committee of three.
                             Mr. WEIR and Mr. TARKINGTON favored the amendment to the motion to
                                refer.
                            Mr. GOODING moved to amend the resolution by including three copies
                                of the Daily Citizen.
                            Mr. MURRAY thought it best to refer this matter to a select
                                committee.
                             Mr. JOHNSTON. The committee on the reporter have not reported. Now,
                                sir, I propose to wait until that report comes in before we take any
                                action in this matter. I there 
                                fore move that the resolution and pending amendment be laid on the
                                table.
                             The motion was agreed to upon a division of the Senate - 24 to
                                20.
                        





                        
                            QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.


                            Mr. HEFFREN offered the following preamble and resolution:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS, Under section 16 of Article 7
                                            of the Constitution of the State of Indiana declares
                                            that "no person elected to any judicial office shall,
                                            during the term for which he shall have been elected, be
                                            eligible to any office of trust and profit under the
                                            State other than a judicial officer: and whereas, it is
                                            believed that Hon. Hugh Miller, Hon. Walter March, and
                                            Hon. D. S. Gooding, were each holding the office of
                                            Judge of the Court of Common Pleas in their respective
                                            Common Pleas Districts, and which term of office as said
                                            Judge of said Court extended and continued until the
                                            first day of January next, after the electien held in
                                            October, 1856, at which time it was pretended that said
                                            persons were elected as Senators: and whereas, it being
                                            desirable that a proper construction of the said section
                                            should be had upon this point: Therefore,


                                         Resolved, That a select committee of
                                            five be appointed by the Chairman to inquire and examine
                                            into and report whether the persons named in the
                                            preamble are entitled to their seats in this body, in
                                            accordance with said section 16 of the Constitution

                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HEFFREN. This is merely a resolution of inquiry. I have not yet
                                examined the matter sufficiently to state what my opinion would be. 
                            Mr. MARCH denied that the Supreme Court or any other body has the
                                right to go behind the decisions of the Senate upon the
                                qualifications of its own members.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON held the same doctrine to be true, and that when the
                                Senate has once settled the question, it cannot be changed.
                             Mr. TARKINGTON. It is clear that the Senate has a right to look into
                                and examine the facts as to the legal election of its members at any
                                time it sees fit to do so.
                            Mr. McLEAN. I think this resolution is ill-timed. The proper time to
                                investigate this matter was in 1857
                            Mr. GOODING. I would scorn to hold a seat in this body in defiance of
                                the Constitution of my State, or the will of the people I represent.
                                I investigated this matter fully before I became a candidate for
                                this place. This question shall be for the Senate to decide, without
                                any interference on my part.
                            Mr. BOBBS was opposed, to raising this question at this time.
                             Mr. JOHNSTON denied the right of the Senate to reconsider a vote, or
                                reverse a decision made two years ago.
                             Mr. COBB. When a member of the Senate comes here and is sworn in, he
                                is  prima facia entitled to his seat.
                            Mr. MURRAY held that the Senate had the right to examine into the
                                rights of its members to hold their seats at any time.
                            The resolution was adopted - yeas 21, nays 20.
                            The PRESIDENT, pro tem., makes the committee to
                                consist of Senators Heffren, Murray, Conner, Bennett and
                                Authony.
                            On motion of Mr. MARCH, the message from the House of Representatives
                                inviting the Senate to meet in the Hall of the House this afternoon
                                at 2 o'clock to receive the Governor's communication, was taken up
                                and concurred in  nemine contradicente.
                        


                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. CONNER. Mr. President, the hour of two has arrived. I move that
                                the Senate how proceed to the Hall of the House of Representatives
                                to hear the Governor's message.
                            The motion was agreed to, and the Senate, preceded by the
                                    PRESIDENT, pro tem., vacated the Chamber.
                            When the Senate returned - 
                            Mr. WALLACE offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That when the Senate adjourns
                                            it stands adjourned till Monday at 2 o'clock P. M.
                                    
                                
                            


                            The resolution was adopted by consent.
                            The Senate adjourned.


                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                        
                            
                                FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1859.
                            
                        
                        Mr. TURPIE submitted the following, which was adopted:
                        
                            
                                
                                    Resolved,for the last regular session, be
                                        adopted as the Rules of this House until further
                                        ordered.>
                                
                            
                        
                        Mr. AUSTIN submitted a resolution for a committee of three, to prepare
                            and report rules for the government of this House, which was
                            adopted.
                        Mr. MURRAY submitted the following, which was adopted:
                        
                            
                                
                                    Resolved, That newspaper reporters be
                                        allowed seats inside the bar, for the purpose of reporting
                                        the proceedings of this House.
                                
                            
                        
                        
                             REPORTER TO THE HOUSE - NEWSPAPERS. 
                            
                                

                                    
                                        Resolved,That a committee of five be
                                            appointed to inquire into the expediency of employing a
                                            reporter for this House, whose duty it shall be to make
                                            full reports of the proceedings, and cause the same to
                                            be published in the form of The Legislative
                                                Sentinel; and that said committee make inquiry
                                            into the cost of furnishing each member of the House
                                            with four copies of the same.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. SCOTT. You are aware, sir, that the cost of furnishing papers as
                                heretofore provided, is a very expensive item. If something of this
                                kind could be devised, which would cost much less, and yet afford us
                                the means of keeping our constituents informed of our proceedings
                                here, would it not be well to adopt a resolution of this kind, to
                                inquire into it ? That is all I wish. I do not know what would be
                                the expense. The committee could ascertain that. 
                            Mr. MURRAY. I am opposed to that resolution. I do not think it could
                                operate well in any way. It is true, if we should employ a reporter
                                to take our proceedings in full and publish them in full, it would
                                be a very nice thing to look at and get bound into a book; but it
                                could subserve no other purpose whatever. Now we take a certain
                                number of papers, who employ their own reporters, and they give to
                                the public all that is necessary of  our entire proceedings. If we have a
                                reporter report the proceedings in full, there is not a paper in the
                                city that could get the entire report into their columns. Then we
                                should have to hire not only a reporter to report our proceedings,
                                but also to publish them; and if this were done, we could not then
                                afford to purchase a sufficient number of copies of that paper to
                                send to our constituents. They would have to remain here and be
                                bound up simply our accommodation. There is no practicality in the
                                resolution, and it ought to be voted down.
                             Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone. I had prepared a resolution on the same
                                subject, differing in details from this, and perhaps obviating the
                                objections of the gentleman from Elkhart. At the last session our
                                newspapers cost some twelve or thirteen hundred dollars. This is
                                proposed as a substitute for the old practice. But four copies of
                                one paper are to be taken. Last session we took three copies of five
                                papers. I undertake to say we can have a reporter at one-fourth part
                                of the expense of papers, from whom all the papers can have their
                                reports free of charge. The proposition does not interfere with the
                                right accorded to reporters to sit here, but it obviates the
                                necessity of taking three or four copies of each of the city papers.
                                My friend from Elkhart seems to go upon the presumption that we must
                                take the city papers in addition. I am opposed to that, and in my
                                resolution I have provided that these authorized reports shall be
                                taken in lieu of the newspapers.
                            Mr. SCOTT. That is the object of my resolution.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren. Whatever we do, we should do promptly.
                                Whether we had paid too much for newspapers, he knew not, but
                                thought still that the money was well expended. He objected to all
                                waste of words upon this proposition, as far more expensive than the
                                newspapers.
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed to amend by striking out and inserting
                            
                                
                                    
                                        That the Door-keeper contract with the publishers of the
                                                Indiana State Journal, the Indiana State Sentinel, the Indiana American, and the two German
                                            papers printed in Indianapolis, for three copies of each
                                            of their papers for the use of the members of this
                                            House, two copies of each to be enveloped and
                                            stamped.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. SCOTT. My resolution was to prevent that. It was that the
                                reporter furnish four copies of the proceedings of the day previous;
                                so that we may not have newspapers lying uselessly about the
                                Capitol. It -was to reduce the expenses of the Legislature in this
                                respect. The member from Elkhart, at the last session, was among the
                                foremost for economy, and it is my object to carry out the
                                gentleman's principle-so that the House shall not expend $2,000 for
                                newspapers this session. I have no other object whatever in
                                view.
                            Mr. CAVINS proposed to amend the amendment by adding three copies of
                                the Daily Citizen.
                            The proposition was rejected.
                            Mr. WATERMAN submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "Amend so as to allow each member to designate what
                                            papers he will takethe amount not to exceed that of the
                                            number in the resolution."
                                    
                                
                            

                            The amendment to the amendment was adopted.
                            Mr. MURRAY now moved to lay the resolution and amendments on the
                                table - demanding the yeas and nays, which being ordered and taken,
                                resulted - yeas 30, nays 62 - as follows:


                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Boyd, Cavins, Clayton,
                                            Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Davis, Dougherty, Devol,
                                            Hall of Rush, Hamilton of Boone, Hamilton of Wayne,
                                            Harney, Harrison, Hartley, Hunter, Johnston, Knowlton,
                                            Murray, Martin, Ritter, Robinson, Row, Rynerson,
                                            Shields, Shockley, Stanfield, Thompson of Elkhart,
                                            Whetzel, and Mr. Speaker-30.

                                        NAYS Messrs. Austin, Baird, Black,
                                            Blythe, Bowman, Boxley, Brotherton, Carr, Clark,
                                            Claypool, Clements, Colgrove, Collier, Dobbins, Durham,
                                            Early, Eastham, Edwards, Firestone, Gifford, Gregory,
                                            Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hancock, Jeffries, Jones,
                                            Jordan, Kelley, Kempf, Lawhead, Lewis, McLain,
                                            Mansfield, Massey, Mellett, Merrifield, Nebeker of
                                            Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Nelson, Newton, Parks,
                                            Parrett, Power, Prosser, Scott, Sherman, Shall, Smith of
                                            Miami, Snyder, Stanley, Stiles, Sullivan, Summers,
                                            Tebbs, Thompson of Madison, Treadway, Turpie, Usrey,
                                            Waterman, Wheeler, Whiteman and Wood - 62 
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the House refused to lay on the table, and the question recurred
                                on the adoption of the amendment as amended.
                            Mr. HUNTER. I hope the original resolution will prevail. At the
                                commencement of the last session I offered a similar resolution to
                                employ a reporter. This is merely to inquire into the expense. It is
                                not binding on the House or the committee. Gentlemen think the
                                proposition expensive. What is the fact? Instead of one, we now
                                employ five or six reporters, and take their papers beside.
                                Gentlemen may say we do not pay the reporters; but we add enough to
                                the cost of the papers to pay them, and so we do substantially pay
                                the reporters. Gentlemen may say we need these papers for the
                                purpose of informing our constituents of our proceedings here. But I
                                say there was not a paper went out from this city during the last
                                session, from the reading of which alone a person could gain a full
                                knowledge of the proceedings of this House. They are political
                                papers, and, as a matter of course, they give a coloring to their
                                reports. I do not say the Journal is more fair
                                than the Sentinel. I think one about as fair as
                                the other. Take the Journal, for example. One
                                gentleman has his speech reported in full, and another has a mere
                                description - a little paragraph. There is neither a full nor a fair
                                report. And if we take up the Sentinelthere is the
                                same partiality and want of fullness. So when gentlemen say we want
                                these papers to inform our constituents of our proceedings, it is
                                not the fact. I go then for employing reporters, as a matter of
                                economy, and to secure fairness and completeness in, the reports,
                                &c.
                            
                            Mr. DEVOL submitted the following by way of substitute:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That in the opinion of this
                                            House, it is inexpedient for the House to subscribe for
                                            any newspaper to be paid for out of the funds of the
                                            State, or to pay anything for reporting the proceedings
                                            of this House.

                                    
                                
                            
                            On the motion of Mr. KEEFER, this proposition was laid on the table,
                                by yeas 67, nays 27; and the question again recurred on the adoption
                                of Mr. Murray's amendment, as amended.
                            Mr. FIRESTONE demanded the previous question.
                            Mr. RITTER. I desire, in this connection, to enquire what has become
                                of the Legislative Sentinel?
                            The SPEAKER. The Chair is informed that it is printed and ready to be
                                laid on the desks of members.
                            Mr. RITTER. In binding?
                            The SPEAKER. The Chair is not informed as to that.
                            Mr. RITTER. At the proper time we will attend to that Legislative Sentinel.
                            Mr. HARNEY. (By leave.) It looks to me that this proposition is
                                wholly impracticable and absurd. It is expected that the proceedings
                                of the House are to be published in full; that will involve the
                                publication of the debates and a double publication of the journals,
                                and that would be an improvident waste of the public money. It is
                                infinitely better to have our proceedings reported by men outside of
                                the influence of this Hall, than to make them creatures of the
                                Legislature. It is to me a plan got up to enable gentlemen to obtain
                                reports of their speeches at the public expense, or in some way more
                                congenial to their feelings than they would be likely to get at the
                                hand of outsiders. The scheme is new, untried and1 impracticable,
                                and would make us ridiculous-in the eyes of our constituents and the
                                world.
                            The previous question being now seconded, the yeas and nays on the
                                main question re-resulted - yeas 33, nays 58 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Clark, Clements,
                                            Dobbins, Early, Firestone, Gifford, Hancock, Harney,
                                            Jones, Jordan, Keefer, Kempf, Knowlton, Lawhead, McLain,
                                            Massey, Merrifield, Nebeker of Warren, Nelson Shields,
                                            Shull, Smith of Perry, Snyder, Stanley, Stiles,
                                            Sullivan, Summers, Turpie, Waterman, Wheeler, Wildman,
                                            Wood. Mr. Speaker - 33.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Austin, Baird, Black,
                                            Blythe, Bowman, Boyd, Boxley, Brotherton, Carr, Cavins,
                                            Claypool, Clayton, Colgrove, Collier, Comstock, Cotton,
                                            Davidson, Davis, Dougherty, Durham, Devol, Edwards,
                                            Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton
                                            of Boone, Hamilton of Wayne, Harrison, Hartley, Hunter,
                                            Jeffries, Johnston, Kelly, Lewis, Mansfield, Mellett,
                                            Miller, Murray, Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion, Newton,
                                            Parks, Prosser, Ritter, Robinson, Row, Scott, Sherman,
                                            Shockley, Smith of Miami,Stanfield, Tebbs, Thompson of
                                            Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Treadway, Usrey, Whetzel.
                                            Whiteman - 58
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the amendments were lost, and the question recurred on the
                                adoption of the original resolution.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved to lay the resolution an the table, demanding the
                                yeas and nays, which resulted - yeas 67, nays 28 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS.Messrs. Blythe, Bowman, Boyd,
                                            Brotherton, Carr, Cavins, Clark, Claypool, Clayton,
                                            Clements, Colgrove. Collier, Davis, Dobbins, Doueherty,
                                            Devol, Early, Firestone, Gifford, Griffin, Hancock,
                                            Harney. Harrison, Hartley, Jones, Jordan, Keefer, Kelly,
                                            Kempf, Knowlton, Lawhead, Lewis, McLain, Major,
                                            Mansfield. Massey, Merrifield, Miller, Murray, Martin,
                                            Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Nelson,
                                            Parrett, Prosser, Ritter, Row, Rynearson, Shields,
                                            Shockley, Shull, Smith of Miami, Smith of Perry, Snyder,
                                            Stanley, Stanfield, Stiles, Sullivan, Summers, Thompson
                                            of Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Turpie, Waterman,
                                            Wheeler, Whetzel, Wildman, and Wood - 67.

                                        NAYS. Messrs. Austin. Black, Boxley,
                                            Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Durham, Edwards, Gregory,
                                            Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton of Boone, Hamilton
                                            of Wayne, Hunter, Jeffries, Johnston, Mellet,Newton,
                                            Parks, Power, Robinson, Scott, Sherman, Tebbs, Treadway,
                                            Usrey, and Mr. Speaker. - 28

                                    
                                
                            
                            So the House refused to lay on the table, and the question again
                                recurred.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Vermillion, proposed the following by way of
                                substitute:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper be
                                            instructed to subscribe for three copies of the daily
                                            State Sentinel, three copies of the daily State Journal,
                                            three copies of the weekly American, and three copies of
                                            the two German papers published in the city of
                                            Indianapolis, for the use of members of the House of
                                            Representatives.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. SCOTT proposed to add: "and all the rest of the papers of the
                                State;" which was rejected.
                            Mr. RYNEARSON, proposed to add: "Provided their publishers shall
                                afford the same at their ordinary club rates."
                             Mr. NEBEKER accepted the latter.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, proposed to add: "The weekly Expositor and Boone County Pioneer;"
                                which was rejected.
                            Mr. KNOWLTON proposed to substitute the amendment and the resolution
                                by the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper contract
                                            for three copies each of the daily State Sentinel and
                                            the daily State Journaltwo copies to be enveloped and
                                            stampedand place the same on the desks of the members of
                                            this House.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. MURRAY moved ineffectually to lay this amendment on the table,
                                and then it was adopted, and the question recurred on the adoption
                                of the resolution as amended by Mr. Knowlton.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, demanded the previous question, and under its
                                operation, the vote on the main question stood - yeas 54, nays 35,
                                as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS Messrs. Bowman, Boyd, Brotherton,
                                            Clark, Clayton. Clements, Colgrove, Collier, Cotton,
                                            Davidson, Dobbins, Early, Edwards, Firestone, Gifford,
                                            Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton
                                            of Wayne, Hancock, Harney, Hartley, Jeffries, Johnston,
                                            Jones, Jordan, Keefer, Kelly, Kempf, Knowlton, Lawhead,
                                            Lewis, Merrifield. Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion,
                                            Nebeker of Warren, Nelson, Parrett, Power, Prosser,
                                            Shull, Stanley, Stanfield, Sullivan, Summers, Thompson,
                                            of Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Turpie, Waterman,
                                            Wheeler, Whiteman, and Wood - 54.
                                        
                                            NAYS-Messrs. Austin, Baird, Black,
                                            Boxley. Carr, Comstock, Davis, Dougherty, Durham, Devol,
                                            Hamilton of Boone, Harrison. Hunter, McLain, Mansfield,
                                            Mellett. Miller, Murray. Newton, Parks, Ritter,
                                            Robinson, Row, Rynearson, Scott, Sherman, Shields,
                                            Shockley, Smith of Miami, Stiles, Tebbs, Treadway,
                                            Whetzel, and Mr. Speaker- 35.
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the resolution was adopted.
                        
                        
                        
                            REV. MR. CUNNINGHAM.

                            Mr. MURRAY submitted the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, 'That a committee of three be
                                            appointed to wait on the Rev. Mr. Cuanmgham, of this
                                            city, and request him to open the present session of the
                                            General Assembly with prayer, in joint convention of the
                                            two Houses, immediately preceding the delivery of the
                                            message of his Excellency, the Governor.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            CONVENTION TO HEAR THE GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                             Mr. DOBBINS submitted the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Senate be invited to
                                            attend in the Hall of the House of Representatives this
                                            day at two o'clock P. M., to receive the biennial
                                            communication of His Excellency the Governor, and that
                                            seats be prepared therefor by the Door.keeper on the
                                            right of the Speaker's Chair, and that the Senate be
                                            forthwith informed of the adoption of this
                                            resolution
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            POSTAGE STAMPS.
                            Mr. PROSSER submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper be
                                            authorized to purchase three dollars worth of postage
                                            stamps for each member of this Housetwo dollars of the
                                            same to be in one cent stamps.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. KNOWLTON demanded the previous question, and pending the force
                                thereof - 
                            Mr. COLGROVE (by leave) said he would vote against the resolution
                                because there was not money enough in it. He would vote for five
                                dollars' worth to each member.
                            Mr. PROSSER would accept, with the consent of the House. ("No
                                consent.")
                            he vote on the mam question was - yeas 47, nays 42.
                            So the resolution Was adopted.
                        
                        
                            PAGES.
                            Mr. GIFFORD submitted, the following, which was adopted by
                                consent.
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper be
                                            authorized to appoint two boys to act as Pages to this
                                            House, during the present session.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                             NEWSPAPERS FOR CLERKS OF THE HOUSE.
                            Mr. DURHAM submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Clerks of this House
                                            be each allowed a copy of the Daily Sentinel and Daily
                                            Journal.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. KEEFER proposed to include the Doorkeepers and Pages.
                            Which was rejected.
                            Mr. THOMPSON, of Madison, made an ineffectual motion to lay the
                                resolution on the table, and then it was rejected.
                        
                        
                            STATIONARY FOR THE HOUSE.
                            Mr. HUNTER. Mr. Speaker, I offer the following resolution for a
                                    Committee on Stationery. I would just state
                                that at the last Session a similar committee was appointed, and
                                under the rules reported by them and adopted here, the stationery
                                account did not exceed $150, against $2,000. I believe, at the last
                                regular session.
                            
                                
                                    

                                        Resolved, That a committee of three be
                                            appointed to act as a Standing Committee on
                                                Stationery, and that said committee be
                                            instructed to make the same rules and regulations with
                                            regard to the purchase and distribution thereof, as at
                                            the last session.

                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. DAVIS. I would like to know whether there is any way of getting
                                better paper? The paper I have got is not worth much
                            Mr. CLEMENTS moved ineffectually to lay the resolution on the
                                table.
                             Mr. DOUGHERTY. I believe that contemplates a return to the rule of
                                the last session, by which we obtained our paper. I am certainly in
                                favor of economical and just restrictions to prevent waste of
                                stationery, and would vote for such a measure. But it seems to be
                                rather degrading to require members to go to the Doorkeeper to beg a
                                little paper, and then to require the amount obtained to be entered
                                in a book. It seems to me rather degrading to make the Door-keeper
                                the guardian of the stationery, and the member as the ward. It is
                                making our servant our guardian; and then it throws no restriction
                                around the Door-keepers.
                            Mr. HUNTER. Yes, they account to the committee.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. For my part. I do without stationery to some extent,
                                rather than go to the Door-keepers and ask for it, and then have it
                                charged against me.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, did not beg. His stationery was charged, and
                                he supposed the items were examined. He asked for and obtained and
                                used what he got. He knew of no better way than to call for what a
                                man wants.
                            Mr. HUNTER replied to Mr. Dougherty. Two years ago thousands of
                                dollars were charged to the State for stationery for the
                                Legislature; and the object was to restrict waste and save money.
                                There was nothing objectionable in the proposition.
                            The resolution was adopted.
                            The SPEAKER appointed the Committee on Rules,
                                under Mr. Austin's resolution, namely: Messrs. Austin, Edwards, and
                                Scott, and
                            The Committee on Prayer, under Mr. Murray's
                                resolution, namely: Messrs. Murray, Blythe, and Gregory.
                            Mr. KNOWLTON asked and obtained leave of absence until Monday.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            On motion by Mr. BLYTHE, the Committee on Prayer
                                had leave to vary their report from the instructions in the
                                resolution, so as to substitute the name of the Rev. Mr. Tyndall for
                                that of Rev. Mr. Cunninghamthe latter gentleman having been called
                                out of the city; and reported that Mr. Tyndall had consented to pray
                                before the General Assembly at two o'clock this day.

                            
                                CLERK OF THE STATIONARY ROOM.
                                Mr. TURPIE submitted the following, which was adopted by
                                    consent:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                             Resolved, That the Stationery
                                                Clerk render to the Secretary of State an account of
                                                his disbursements of the  same during the late
                                                special session, and that he account to the said
                                                Secretary for the remainder in his hands at the
                                                close of the session; and that he take the same
                                                action and render the same account at the close of
                                                the present regular session.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                OPENING BY JOINT CONVENTION
                                The members and officers of the Senate now appeared and took
                                    seats in accordance with the order adopted this morning in joint
                                    convention with the House of Representatives.
                                The convention was called to order by the PRESIDENT pro tempore of the Senate.
                                Prayers having been offered by the Rev. Mr. Tyndall, of the 2nd
                                    Presbytsrian Church of this city.
                                The PRESIDENT, pro tem., of the Senate
                                    anuonnced the order of delivery of the 
                            
                            
                                GOVERNOR'S BIENNIAL MESSAGE.
                                 His Excellency the GOVERNOR, standing on the right of the forum,
                                    then read to tin convention his biennial message,
                                The PRESIDENT, pro tem., of the Senate, The
                                    business of the Convention of the two Houses, being concluded,
                                    Senators will now repair to their Chamber.
                                The Senate retired, and the SPEAKER laid before the House, the
                                    Governor's Biennial Message.
                                On motion by Mr. DOBBINS, the consideration of the message was
                                    postponed and made the special order for Monday next, at two
                                    o'clock.
                                Mr. BOYD submitted the following:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved,That there be printed for
                                                the use of the House of Representatives five
                                                thousand copies of the Governor's Biennial Message,
                                                one thousand of which shall be under the direction
                                                of the Governor and for his use. 
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. DOUGHERTY proposed to add: "One thousand of the five, to be
                                    printed in the German language."
                                Mr. BOYD accepted; and so the resoultion was adopted.
                                The House then, at three o"clock, adjourned
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        
                            
                                SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1859.
                            
                        
                        The Senate did not sit to-day.
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                        
                            SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1859
                        
                        Mr. LAWHEAD. Mr. Speaker, I move to dispense with the readng of the
                            journal, to enable me to make another motion. I do not want to work
                            to-day
                        The motion was agreed to.
                        Mr. LAWHEAD. I now move that the House adjourn.
                        ["NO," ""no" - and laughter.] 
                        This Mr. Speaker, is the 8th of January - the far-famed anniversary of
                            General Jackson's victory at New Orleons, and I want to celebrate it,
                            because I am old fashioned Democrat. [Cheers.] 

                        
                            THE VOLKSBLAT AND THE FRIE PRESS.
                            Mr. MURRAY. If the gentleman will withhold his motion to enable me to
                                offer a resolution, I will go with him.
                            Mr. LAWHEAD. I withdraw for the gentleman.
                            Mr. MURRAY. I submit the following resolution:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper be
                                            instructed to contract with the publishers of the
                                            Volksblat and Frie Press of this city, for three copies
                                            of their respective papers, to be enveloped and stamped,
                                            for the use of members of this House.
                                    
                                
                            


                            After debate the resolution was adopted, and then - 
                            The House adjourned till Monday morning, 9 o'clock. 
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE
                        
                             MONDAY, JANUARY, 10, 1859. 
                        
                         Senators Line and Studabaker appeared in their places.
                        Mr. HARGROVE, by consent, offered the following, which was adopted:
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That five thousand copies of the
                                        late message of his Excellency, Governor Ashbel IJ. Willard,
                                        be printed for the use of the Senate, two thousand copies of
                                        which to be in the German language, and the same be made the
                                        special order of business for to-morrow, at two o'clock,
                                        P.M. 
                                
                            
                        

                        
                            STATIONERY.
                             Mr. GREEN offered the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That a committee of three be
                                            appointed to act | as a committee on stationery, and
                                            that the said committee be instructed to make the same
                                            rules and regulations, with regard to the purchase and
                                            distribution thereof, as at the I last session, except
                                            said committee may substitute the [ Door-keeper in place
                                            of the principal Secretary.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HEFFREN said there was a similar I committee appointed at the
                                last session, but he had seen no report from them yet. 
                            Mr. HAMILTON proposed the following as an amendment to the
                                resolution: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        ResolvedResolved, That the Secretary be
                                            requested to deliver to the desk of each Senator a
                                            quantity of stationary, not exceeding in value three
                                            dollars worth, at actual cost. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. MARCH. Last session the Secretary of the Senate was required to
                                report to the Committee on Finance. He hoped some
                                such system would be again adopted.
                            Mr. GOODING. It seems to me we will economize by not devoting much
                                time to the matter. I am satisfied with the plan of the last
                                session. 
                            Mr. HEFFREN regarded the resolution as throwing a suspicion upon the
                                integrity of Senators, and those whom we have employed 
                            Mr. CARNAHAN said the bills for stationery at the last session were
                                delivered to the Finance Committee. He was
                                willing to let ,he matter go by the board, and continue as before. 
                            
                            Mr. CONNER offered the following as an amendment to the
                                amendment:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Strike out from the resolving clause, and insert: "That
                                            the Door-keeper of the Senate be instructed to appoint a
                                            suitable person to take the exclusive care and charge of
                                            the stationrey, in the stationery room, which may be
                                            furnished, under the order of the Senate, and that such
                                            person, so appointed, supply Senators, Secretaries and
                                            others entitled to be supplied with stationery, with the
                                            same upon application, and that such persan keep an
                                            account of the stationery so furnished."
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. WEIR was opposed to hiring a clerk to take charge of the
                                stationery, for his per diem would amount to more than the cost of
                                all the stationery used by every Senator. 
                            Mr. TARKINGTON thought it degrading to honorable Senators to employ a
                                clerk at $3 a day, to charge them with so much paper and so many
                                pencils. It was supremely ridiculous. He wanted no such plan. He
                                read a resolution which he desired to offer.
                            Mr. GREEN withdrew his resolution.
                             Mr. TARKINGTON then offered his resolution, which was read by tne
                                Secretary as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, Resolved, That the Secretary
                                            of State be requested to purchase in the most economical
                                            manner, all the stationery necessary for the Senate, and
                                            that the principal Secretary of the Senate apply for the
                                            same, when needed, and place in charge of the
                                            Door-keeper, who shall take charge of the same by self
                                            or assistant during the session and deliver to Senators
                                            when needed and all such stationery as may not be used
                                            on adjournment be returned to the Secretary of State.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to strike out the words, "and place in charge of
                                the Doorkeeper." He contended that the resolution as introduced
                                contained an implicit censure of-the Secretary. He was opposed to
                                the resolution in toto, and would go to a
                                stationery house and buy his stationery, before he would go to the
                                Senate stationery room and ask an employee of any officer for a half
                                dozen sheets of paper or a lead pencil.
                            Mr. MURRAY thought the resolution did not contain a censure of the
                                Secretary. 
                             Mr. MILLER was opposed to the resolution, but was in favor of the
                                proposition submitted a while ago by the Senator from Allen [Mr.
                                Hamilton.]
                            Mr. Heffren's motion was lost.
                            Mr. MILLER proposed as a substitute, that each Senator be allowed $3
                                50 worth of stationery. 
                            Mr. SLACK thought three dollars worth was more than any one Senator
                                could use. He was in favor of the resolution. 
                             Mr. HEFFREN moved to lay the resolution on the table. 
                             The motion was rejected. 
                             On motion by Mr. GREEN, the substitute was laid on the table. 
                             Mr. MARCH offered the following amendment: 

                            All officers of the Senate,their assistants and employees, are
                                prohibited from making any account, for any thing for the use of the
                                Senate, except upon the

                            Mr. HAMILTON moved to amend by striking out the word "Door-keeper,"
                                and inserting in lieu thereof the words: "Secretary of the
                                Senate."
                            Mr. MARCH accepted of the amendment.
                            The amendment was agreed to, and the resolution, as amended, was
                                adopted.
                            Mr. MARCH accepted of the amendment. 
                            The amendment was agreed to, and the resolution, as amended, was
                                adopted. 
                            The remainder of the session this day was occupied with the
                                propositions to elect a reporter, and subscribe for newspapers for
                                Senators, resulting in the recommitment of the Select
                                    Committee's report recommending the election of a
                                reporter, and constituting said committee a Joint Committee, and in
                                the adoption of an order, directing the Door-keeper, (for the
                                present,) to procure and place on the desk of each Senator one copy
                                of the  Daily Sentinel and one copy of the Daily Journal.
                            
                            Mr. MURRAY, submitted, for adoption, a list of the Standing
                                Committees of the Senate; pending which - 
                             The Senate adjourned. 

                        
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            MONDAY JANUARY 7, 1859. 
                        
                         The Journal of Saturday was read.

                        
                            NEWSPAPERS.
                             The SPEAKER laid before the House a statement of the Door-keeper to
                                the effect, that the proprietors of the Daily State
                                    Journal and the Daily State Sentinel
                                refuse to furnish the House of Representatives with their said
                                papers at any rate less than that of their bill presented at the
                                last session - that is 15 cents per three copies per day, two of
                                them being enveloped and stamped: and the Door-keeper thereupon
                                asked for further instructions from the House. 
                             Mr. HUNTER. The bill at the last session was 5 cents per copy. If we
                                have to pay that I move that the House take no papers: (consent,)
                                or, I suppose a motion should be made to reconsider.
                             Mr. DAVIS. I move to reconsider the vote of Friday adopting the
                                resolution. 
                            The motion was agreed to. The vote was reconsidered, and the question
                                recurred again on the adoption of the resolution. 
                            Mr. MURRAY. I would like to see that resolution amended, so as to
                                require these papers to be furnished at the prices paid at the last
                                session; and if the printers refuse them at those rates, with the
                                gentleman from Monroe, I shall be in favor of taking no papers this
                                session. I propose to amend the resolution by adding the following: 



                            "Provided that these papers be furnished at the same rates as at the
                                special session." 


                            The amendment was rejected. 
                             Mr. DOBBINS submitted the following by way of a substitute: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper contract
                                            at the usual legislative price, for three copies each of
                                            the Daily Sentinel and Daily Journal two copies of each paper to be
                                            enveloped and stampedfor the use of members. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             The substitute was rejected; and then the question recurring again
                                on the adoption of the original resolution, it was also rejected. 
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a peti-  tion, signed by E. Buchanan and
                                others, ladies of Martinsville, praying for a liquor law similar to
                                that of 1855, and reasoning at length on the subject; which was read
                                and referred to the Committee on Temperance.
                            
                             The SPEAKER also laid before the House the petition of Henry Craft
                                and others, citizens of Pulaski county, memorializing the
                                Legislature against the administration of the Swamp Land
                                Commissioner for said county, and asking that his late sales be
                                annulled, &c; which was read, and on motion by Mr. BOYD, it was
                                referred to the Committee on Swamp Lands.
                             Mr. SCOTT presented the petition of sundry citizens of Laporte
                                county, memorializing the Legislature against seining and shooting
                                fish in the inland lakes at certain seasons; which was read, and on
                                the motion of Mr. WHETZEL it was referred to the Committee
                                    on Rights and Privileges.
                             Mr. WILDMAN submitted the petition of sundry citizens of Lagrange
                                county, asking for the passage of the Senate bill No. 8, to restrain
                                the sale of intoxicating liquors; which on the motion of Mr.
                                NEBEKER, of Warren, was referred to the Committee on
                                    Temperance.
                            
                            On the motion of Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, it was ordered that when the
                                House adjourns [takes the first recess] for this day, it shall be
                                till 1 1/2 o'clock. This was to give the Speaker opportunity to
                                prepare for the announcement of the Standing Committees.
                        

                        
                            CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.
                             Mr. DAVIS asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill (No. 1) to
                                provide for taking the sense of the qualified voters of the State on
                                calling a convention to alter, amend, or revise the State
                                Constitution. 
                        
                        
                            SALARIES OF PUBLIC OFFICERS.
                             Mr. STANFIELD asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill (No. 2)
                                relative to the salaries of public officers, and providing for the
                                payment of the same; and to repeal so much of an act, entitled an
                                act relative to the salaries of public officers, and providing for
                                the manner of the payment of the same, approved June 14, 1852, as is
                                inconsistent with this act. 
                        
                        
                            TESTIMONY. 
                            Mr. STANFIELD also had leave to introduce a bill (No. 3) to amend
                                section 302 of the Law Reform act, approved June 18, 1852, so as to
                                authorize plaintiffs and co-defendants to testify in certain cases;
                                also, to allow defendants to testify in certain actions brought by
                                assignees where the assignor testifies.
                        
                        
                             SOLDIERS OF THE WAR OF 1812.
                             Mr. DURHAM asked and obtained leave to introduce a joint resolution
                                (No. 1), as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREASThere yet remains some of the
                                            valiant men who served in the war of 1812, and also
                                            indigent widows of the soldiers of ssid war, who have
                                            never received a pension from the government of the
                                            United States, therefore - 
                                        Be it resolved by the Senate and House of
                                                Representatives of the State of Indiana That
                                            our Senators Congress be instructed, and our
                                            Represtatives requested to use their best efforts to
                                            obtain for such soldiers and their widows a pension
                                            during their natural lives.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                             EXEMPTIONS.
                            Mr. PROSSER obtained leave to introduce a bill (No. 4) to exempt
                                property from execution in certain cases therein named, providing
                                who may claim, and the manner of appraisement of property claimed,
                                ars exempt under the provisions thereof, and repealing an act
                                entitled an act to exempt property from sale in certain cases,
                                approved Feb. 17, 1852.
                        
                        
                             SCHOOL TOWNSHIPS.
                             Mr. STANFIELD had leave to introduce a bill (No. 5) incorporating
                                school townships defining their powers, requiring the title of
                                school lots to be vested in the corporate name of the township, town
                                or city in which the same is situate, and authorizing public school
                                houses to be occupied for private schools, also for other meetings
                                and to authorize the common council, the aldermen or trustees of any
                                incorporated town to levy all taxes for school purposes, andthe
                                building and repairing of school houses, and to repeal all laws
                                inconsistent with this act. 

                        
                        
                            COUNTY BOUNDARIES.

                            Mr.NEBEKER, of Warren, asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill
                                (No. 6) to amend the second section of the act approved March 7,
                                1857, entitled an act to authorize the formation of new counties.
                                and to change county boundaries.
                        
                        
                            A CONVENTIONAL INTEREST.
                            Mr. SHULL obtained leave to introduce a bill (No. 7), supplemental to
                                an act concerning interest on money, approved Feb. 22, 1852, and
                                providing for a conventional rate of interest [not exceeding- ten
                                per cent.]
                        
                        
                            PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
                             Mr. RITTER obtained leave to introduce a bill (No. 8) to preserve
                                public buildings, and to punish persons for un lawfully occupying
                                the same. 
                        
                        
                            INDEPENDENT TREASURY.
                             Mr. Jones obtained leave to introduce a bill (No. 9) to establish an
                                independent treasury of the State of Indiana, to provide for the
                                safekeeping and disbursement of the public money of the State and of
                                the several counties thereof, creating the office of Comptroller of
                                the Treasury, end prescribing the manner of his election, defining
                                Ms duties and fixing his compensation; defining the duties of
                                Treasurer of State, Auditor of State and other State officers, and
                                the duties of County Auditors and Treasurers and other county
                                officers : for the examination of the State and county treasuries,
                                and providing for the punishment of the crime of embezzlement of
                                public moneys, and fixing other penalties for violations of the
                                provisions of this act. 

                            

                             Which bills were severally read throughout, and passed the first
                                reading. 
                        
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             The SPEAKER announced the following landing and Joint Standing
                                Committees of he House of Representatives, viz. 
                            
                                
                                         On Elections.- 
                                     Messrs. Hamilton, of Boone, Harrison, Power, Dobbins,
                                    Merrifield and Jordan. 
                                
                                        On the Judiciary. - 
                                     Messrs. Colgrove, Baird, Stanfield, Davis, Blythe,
                                    Mellett and Turpie. 

                                
                                        On Ways and Means. - 
                                     - Messrs. Branham, Hunter, Smith, of Perry, Shields,
                                    Major, Harvey and Wildman. 

                                
                                        On Banks. - 
                                     Messrs. Mellett, Bowman, Scott, McClain, Robinson,
                                    Smith, of Miami, and Firestone. 
                                
                                         On Education. - 
                                     Messrs. Mansfield, Boyd, Stiles, Hamilton, of Wayne,
                                    Dougherty, Major and Robinson. 

                                
                                    
                                         On the Organization of Courts of Justice. -
                                        
                                     On the Organization of Courts of Justice. Messrs.
                                    Stanfield, Baird, Stiles, Merrifield, Davis, Dobbins and Bro.
                                    therton. 


                                
                                    
                                        On the Affairs of the State Prison. - 
                                     Messrs. Hunter, Carr, Murray, Shields, Comstock,
                                    Prosser and Fordyce. 

                                
                                    
                                        On Swamp Lands. - 
                                     Messrs. Hamilton, of Boone, Jeffries, Comstock,
                                    Colgrove, Martin, Cavins and Harney. 

                                
                                    
                                        On Claims. - 
                                     Messrs. Wildman, Martin, Cavins, Boxey, Collier and
                                    Hartley. 


                                
                                    
                                        On Trust Funds. - 
                                     Messrs. Jeffries, Rynearson, Martin, Stanley, Kempf,
                                    Whitzel and Gilford. 

                                
                                    
                                        On Military Affairs. - 
                                     Messrs. Power, Prosser, Miller, Hall, of Grant,
                                    Claypool, Eastham and Thompson, of Elkhart. 

                                
                                    
                                        On Fees and Salaries. -
                                     Messrs. Scott, Robinson. Stiles, Turpie, Dougherty,
                                    Griffin and Dobbins. 

                                
                                    
                                         On Sinking Fund. - 
                                     Messrs. Robinson, Branham, Colgrove, Black, Early,
                                    Martin and Jones. 

                                
                                    
                                         On the Rights and Privileges of the
                                            Inhabitants of this State. - 
                                     Messrs. Parks, Brotherton, Nebeker, of Warren,
                                    Griffin, Nelson, Merrifield and Massey. 

                                
                                    
                                        On Roads - 
                                     Messrs. Comstock, Devol, Durham, Nebeker, of
                                    Vermillion, Early and Hall, of Grant. 


                                
                                    
                                        On Manufactures and Commerce. - 
                                     Messrs. Smith, of Perry, Gregory, Duvoll, Thompson,
                                    of Elkhart, Waterman, Murray and Durham. 

                                
                                    
                                        On County and Township Business. - 
                                     Messrs. Harrison, Whitzel, Mellett, Martin, Jones,
                                    Harvey and Snyder. 

                                
                                    
                                        On Agriculture - 
                                     Messrs. Rynesrson, Treadway, Whitzel, Wheeler, Kelly,
                                    Tebbs and Boxley. 

                                
                                    
                                        On Benevolent Institutions. - 
                                     Messrs. Edwards, Boyd, Branham, Hucter, Rynearson,
                                    Smith, of Perry, and Collier. 

                                
                                    
                                        On Temperance. - 
                                     Messrs. Austin, Nebeker, of Warren, Shockley,
                                    Thompson, of Madison, Davidson, Johnson and Lawhead. 

                                
                                    
                                        On the Affairs of the Town of Indianapolis .
                                            -
                                     Messrs. Cotton, Hall, of Rush, Johnston, Summers,
                                    Keefer and Claypool. 


                                
                                    
                                        On Mileage. - 
                                     Messrs. Nebeker, of Warren, Hall, of Grant, Wildman,
                                    Cavins, Carr, Sullivan and Shockley. 

                                
                                    
                                        On Enrolled Bills.- 
                                     Messrs. Brotherton, Gregory, Shull, Griffin, Newton,
                                    Cotton and Usrey. 

                                
                                    
                                        On Engrossed Bills. - 
                                     Messrs. Griffin, Hall, of Rush, Nelson, Gifford,
                                    Nebeker, of Warren, Claypool and Parks. 


                                
                                    
                                         On Canals.- 
                                     Messrs. Miller, Comstock, Stinson, Fordyce, Duvoll,
                                    Newton and Knowlton. 


                                
                                    
                                        On Public Expenditure. 
                                     Messrs. Ritter, Fordyce, Duvoll, Hall, of Rush,
                                    Gifford, Lewis and Newton. 

                                
                                    
                                        On Corporations. - 
                                     Messrs. Stiles, Cavins, Martin, Brotherton, Stinson,
                                    Hartley and Lawhead. 
                            
                        
                        
                            JOINT STANDING COMMITTEES.
                            
                                
                                     On Public Buildings. -  Messrs.
                                        Duvoll, Austin and Lawhead. 
                                

                                
                                     On State Library. -  Messrs. Cavins,
                                        Smith, of Perry, and Boyd. 
                                

                                
                                     On Canal Fund. - Messrs. Sherman,
                                        Comstock and Stinson. 
                                
                            
                             The SPEAKER announced that the order of business would be the same
                                as in the special session.
                        
                        
                            BOARD OF SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS.
                            Mr. SMITH, of Perry, asked and obtained leave, to introduce a bill
                                (No. 10) to establish a Board of Sinking Fund Commissioners,
                                providing for the election and appointment of the officers thereof,
                                and prescribing the powers and duties of said Board; which was
                                passed the first reading. 
                             Mr. SMITH. Inasmuch as there is a question whether there is at this
                                time any officer of the Sinking Fund, it ia expedient that this bill
                                should be taken up and considered at as early a period as possible,
                                I would ask the House to suspend the rules, that it may be read a
                                second time now. I would remark that it is the same bill as that
                                reported at the last session, with the exception of the
                                exceptionable portionthe llth and 12th sections. It does not even
                                propose to legislate the Board into office.
                             The SPEAKER directed the call of the yeas and nays under the
                                constitutional provision, which resulted, yeas 74, nays 5.
                            So two-thirds voting in the affirmative, the rules were suspended and
                                the bill was read the second time by its titleso passing to the
                                question of engrossment. 
                             On motion by Mr. DOUGHERTY, the bill was referred to the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means
                            

                        

                        
                            LIST OF STANDING COMMITTEES.
                             Mr. MILLER (by unanimous consent) submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resovled, That 300 copies of the list
                                            of the Standing Committees of the House of
                                            Representatives be printed for the use of the House. 

                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. GIFFORD proposed 200 copies: 
                            Which was adopted by consent.
                            Mr. THOMPSON, of Madison, proposed 100. 
                            Which was rejected. 
                             And then the resolution was adopted.
                        
                        
                            STATIONARY REPORT.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY obtained leave to submit the following, which was
                                adopted by unanimous consent: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Stationery be instructed to report to
                                            this House, at their earliest convenience, the amount
                                            and several kinds of stationery placed in the stationery
                                            room at the late Special Session for the use of this
                                            House; what amount remained on hand at the close of the
                                            session, and the specific amount of each kind obtained
                                            therefrom by each member; and that a like report be made
                                            by said committee at the close of the present session.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                             THE LEGISLATIVE SENTINEL.
                             The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Assistant
                                Clerk (Mr. Chapman) stating, that, in obedience to a resolution
                                adopted by the House of Representatives near the close of the extra
                                session, he had contracted with Bingham & Doughty for the
                                binding of 100 copies of the Legislative Sentinel at 12 1/2 cents
                                per copy; which was ordered to go upon the Journal. 
                        
                        
                             COUNTY BONDS. 
                            Mr. CAVINS asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill (No. 11) to
                                amend the 21st section of an act entitled An act providing for the
                                organization of County Boards, and pre-  scribing some of their powers and
                                duties, approved June 17, 1852. 

                        
                        
                            UNAUTHORIZED PAPER CURRENCY.
                             Mr. MARTIN (by unanimous consent) introduced a bill (No. 12) to
                                prevent the issuing and circulation of unauthorized paper currency,
                                and prescribing penalties for the issuance and failure to redeem any
                                such currency. 
                        
                        
                             QUALIFICATION OF ELECTORS. 
                            Mr. GREGORY (by unanimous consent) introduced a bill (No. 13) to
                                amend the section of article two of the State Constitution, denning
                                the qualifications of electors so that every white male citizen who
                                has resided in the State six months shall be entitled to vote in the
                                township where he resides: 
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading. 

                        
                        
                             GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE. 
                            The SPEAKER now announced the special order, viz.: the consideration
                                of the Governor's Biennial Message, and stated that it was usual to
                                consider the Message in Committee of the whole House. 
                            The House then resolved itself into Committee of the Whole - Mr.
                                Edwards in the Chair and took up the Governor's Biennial Message. 
                            On motion by Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, the reading of the Message was
                                dispensed with. 
                            On motion by Mr. BOYD, it was 
                            
                                
                                    
                                         Resolved,  That so much of the
                                            Governor's Message as relates to the State's Prison, be
                                            referred to the Committee on the State's Prison. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             On motion by Mr. FORDYCE, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That that part of the
                                            Governor's Message relating to the Wabash and Erie Canal
                                            be referred to the Committee on Canals and Internal
                                            Improvements. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON submitted a resolution referring to a select
                                committee of five, that part of the Message which relates to the
                                failure of the General Assembly of 1857 to make appropriations for
                                the Benevolent Institutions, and to the course pursued by the
                                Treasurer and other State Officers in the premises, with
                                instructions to inquire - 
                            
                                 How the General Assembly failed to make such
                                    appropriations?
                                 Whether the Treasurer vioalated his duty in refusing to
                                    pay out the money in the Treasury for such purpose? 
                                 Whether the resolution of the Officers of State
                                    transcended their constitutional and legal authority, advising
                                    the Treasurer to use the money of the State to sustain these
                                    Institutions? 
                                What authority existed for such resolution, and the
                                    action of the Treasurer thereunder? and if none 
                                 What was the constitutional means of providing for
                                    sustaining said Institutions, and what officer or officers of
                                    State had exclusive control thereof, and how did he or they
                                    employ the same?
                            
                             Mr. DOUGHERTY. I would say, in regard to that portion, it does seem
                                to me that an inquiry of that kind would be useless. What will the
                                gentleman from Marion gain by instituting an inquiry into the cause
                                of the failure of the last State Senate to pass certain laws? What
                                new facts will be elicited? I presume the history of the acts of the
                                last Senate is before the people; it is made up; has gone out; it
                                has been read by the people It has grown into a political question.
                                The people have all formed their opinions upon and taken sides; and
                                any investigation by committee, at this day, would not affect the
                                views one way or another. A report in the matter would simply raise
                                a political question, and do no good. But if the gentleman wishes to
                                examine into the conduct of the State Officers concerning these
                                Institutions- if he wishes to take a tilt at themI have objection.
                                Let him go ahead. I propose amend the resolution by striking out
                                that petition which relates to the failure of the Senate to pass the
                                appraisement and money bills in the session of 1857.
                             The amendment was agreed to, and so the resolution was adopted.
                             On motion by Mr. AUSTIN, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That so much of the Governor's
                                            Message relates to the Governor's salary and that of the
                                            Judges the Courts, be referred to the Committee
                                                on Fees and Salaries.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, it was 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That so much of the
                                            Governor's Message relates to the repeal of the law to
                                            organize companies the apprehension of horse thieves and
                                            other felons be referred to the Committee on
                                                the Judiciary.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. HANCOCK, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That so much of the
                                            Governor's Message relates to election frauds be
                                            referred to the Committee on
                                                Elections.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. BOYD, it was
                            
                                

                                    

                                        Resolved,That that part of the
                                            Governor's Message which relates to the surrender of
                                            fugitives from justice be referred to a select committee
                                            of one from each Of Congressional District. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. STILES, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,  That so much of the
                                            Governor's Message,refers to the increase of salaries be
                                            referred to the Committee on Fees and
                                                Salaries.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. HUNTER, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Chairman appoint a
                                            committee seven, which shall be denominated a Committee
                                            on Agriculture, Science, Manufactures, and the Mechanic
                                            Arts, which shall be referred so much of the Governor's
                                            Message as relates to the establishment of an
                                            Agricultural Bureau, to the establishment of a
                                            Professorship of Agriculture in the Indiana University,
                                            and to a Geological Survey of the State. 
                                    

                                
                            
                            Mr. GREGORY submitted a resolution referring to the Committee on Ways
                                and Means that portion of the Message which relates to the tax-levy
                                failure of the year 1857, its consequence, and the borrowing of
                                $330,000 by the Officers of State, with instructions to inquire - 
                            
                                 Where and of whom, and on what rate of interest and on
                                    what time was the $165,006 borrowed in June?
                                Under what authority of law was such loan made? 
                                Of whom, on what securities direct or collateral, at
                                    what rate of interest, and on what time was the $165,000
                                    borrowed in December, 1858? 
                                Under what authority was said last sum borrowed? was it
                                    in pursuance or in violation of the direction of the General
                                    Assembly? If in violation - 
                                 Could the money have been obtained in pursuance of said
                                    Legislature?And that said committee have authority to send for
                                    persons and papers. 

                            
                            The resolution was agreed to.

                            
                        
                    
                    
                
                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 23 1859.
                        No. 2.
                    
                    
                        
                            On motion by Mr. DOUGHERTY, it was - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That that portion of the
                                            Governor's Message relating to an Independent State
                                            Treasury be referred to a select committee of five, of
                                            which Mr. Jones, of Spencer, shall be Chairman 
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. Martin, it was - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That so much of the Governor's
                                            message as relates to the subject of Temperance be
                                            referred to theCommittee on Temperance.
                                            
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. GIFFORD, it was - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                         Resolved,  That so much of the
                                            Governor's message as refers to the Sinking Fund, be
                                            referred to the Committee on the Sinking
                                                Fund.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, it was -
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,  That so much of the
                                            Governor's message as relates to Temperance but not
                                            noticed in said message be referred to the
                                                Committee on Temperance.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. WATERMAN, it was - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved,  That so much of the message
                                            as refers to the matter of the preservation of the
                                            Public Buildings, be referred to the Committee
                                                on Ways and Means.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. ROBINSON, the Committee rose, and the CHAIRMAN
                                reported the foregoing resolutions, recommending their adoption, and
                                that the Committee of the Whole be discharged from the further
                                consideration of the subject. 
                            The report was concurred in, and the resolutions were adopted as a
                                whole. 
                            Mr. MURRAY (by consent) submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the State Printer be
                                            requested to furnish this House with a statement,
                                            showing the number of bills printed by the order of this
                                            House, and the aggregate amount charged for the same,
                                            during the late special session thereof; and, also, the
                                            number of bills printed by order of the Senate during
                                            the same period, and the aggregate amount charged
                                            therefor. 
                                    

                                
                            
                            Mr. KEMPF (by consent) submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                the Judiciary inquire into the
                                            constitutionality of "Section six, of an act entitled an
                                            act regulating the fees of officers; page 291:" when
                                            compared with "Section twenty-one, article one, of the
                                            constitution ofthe State of Indiana; page 44, of the
                                            Statutes:" and report by bill or otherwise. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. ROBINSON (by consent) submitted the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the members of this House
                                            proceed in-stanter to select their seats by lot. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, it was laid on the table.
                            Mr. RITTER (by consent) submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,Resolved, That the
                                                Committee on the organization of Courts of
                                                Justice be directed to inquire into the
                                            expediency of abolishing the office of Attorney General,
                                            and report to this House, 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. SUMMERS (by consent) submitted the following, which was adopted
                                by consent: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the duties usually
                                            performed by a Sergeant-at-Arms be performed by the
                                            Door-keeper of this House without additional charge.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            Mr. MARTIN (by consent) introduced a bill (No. 14) to amend section
                                14 of the Act providing for the election of Justices of the Peace,
                                and defining their jurisdiction, powers and duties in civil cases,
                                approved June 19, 1852. 
                            Mr. WATERMAN (by consent) introduced a joint resolution (No. 2)
                                instructing our Senators, and requesting our Representatives in
                                Congress, to use their influence to procure the passage of an act
                                granting lands for Agricultural Colleges. 
                            Which bill and joint resolution were passed the first reading. 
                            Mr. GREGORY (by consent) submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper be
                                            instructed to ascertain whether the State Printer has
                                            completed the printing of the report of the
                                                Special Committee on the State
                                                Printing.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. RITTER (by consent) introduced a bill (No. 15) to amend the
                                first and sixth sections of the Act to exempt property from sale in
                                certain cases, approved Feb. 17, 1852; which was passed the first
                                reading.
                        
                        
                            NEWSPAPERS - REPORTING.
                            Mr. SHULL (by unanimous consent) submitted the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That a Committee of three be
                                            appointed to subscribe for three copies of the following
                                            papers of this city, to wit: the Daily
                                                State Sentinel,
                                            Daily State Journal and Weekly Indiana American two copies of each
                                            respectively to be enveloped and stamped, and that the
                                            Door-keeper procure the same to be laid upon the desk of
                                            each member of this House. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HUNTER. I have had a conversation with the reporter for the
                                Sentinel in the Senate, and he says he is a printer, and that this
                                House may employ a reporter to report all the proceedings, and that
                                his report can be published daily, and twelve copies laid on the
                                desk of each member every morning - the report to embrace all the
                                bills offered the preceding day, and everything done in the House
                                the day before - that this can be done much  cheaper than the cost of the
                                newspapers, as subscribed for by the House at the last session. I
                                therefore move that the resolution be laid on the table, or referred
                                to a Committee to be appointed, to inquire into and report as soon
                                as possible, what will be the cost of employing a reporter, and
                                proceeding upon that plan. I move to refer the resolution to a
                                Select Committee of three, with instructions to inquire into the
                                cost of employing a reporter and having the proceedings of the House
                                published, together with the bills as they are introduced, and have
                                twelve copies thereof furnished to each member. 
                             Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren. Are we not already bound by contract to take
                                the two papers ? 
                            Mr. BOYD. I shall vote for the proposition to refer, with a view of
                                moving to re-consider the order for taking the two German papers. 
                            Mr. Hunter's motion was then agreed to, and the resolution was
                                referred to a Select Committee, which the SPEAKER makes to consist
                                of Messrs Hunter, Shull and Martin. 
                            Mr. MURRAY (by consent) submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That so much of the
                                            Constitution of the State of Indiana which says: " No
                                            person elected to any judicial office shall, during the
                                            term for which he shall have been elected, be eligible
                                            to any office of trust or profit under the State, other
                                            than a judicial office," be referred to the
                                                Committee on the Judiciary, with
                                            instructions to inquire whether said clause precludes
                                            Justices of the Peace from holding any office other than
                                            a judicial one during the term for which he may be
                                            elected, in the township where he may reside, in the
                                            county, or in the State; and if there be exceptions,
                                            what are they? and report their decision to this House.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HARRISON (by consent) submitted the following, which was adopted,
                                and referred to the foregoing committee on reporting: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper be
                                            instructed to contract for and cause to be laid on the
                                            table of each member, one copy each of the State Sentinel and the State
                                                Journal, and six copies each of the Weekly Sentinel and the Weekly Journal - the copies of the weekly to
                                            be enveloped and stamped. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. PROSSER (for Mr. Boyd) moved to reconsider the vote by which the
                                subscription for three copies of each of the two German papers was
                                ordered.Messrs. Baird and Keefer demanded the yeas and nays, and
                                they were ordered. 
                            Messrs. Baird and Keefer demanded the yeas and nays, and they were
                                ordered. 
                             Mr. MURRAY hoped the vote would not be reconsidered, for we had a
                                pretty hard scratch to get it. He was willing to allow the gentleman
                                from Monroe to have his chance for inquiring into the cost of
                                hireing a reporter, but he still believed the plan would be a
                                failure, and these newspaper resolutions would have to be adopted
                                again. 
                            Mr. PROSSER had moved the reconsideration, becauge he wanted equality
                                in this matter of taking newspapers.
                            Mr. BAIRD. We take newspapers for the benefit of our constituents,
                                not for the benefit of printers. 
                             Mr. KEEFER, from his reading of those German papers, stated that one
                                of them, the Frie Presse, scarcely made any
                                legislative reports at all, and neither were Democratic papers.
                                Whilst he voted for them, he thought it proper to make these
                                statements to the House. 
                            So the vote was reconsidered; and the question recurring on the
                                adoption of the resolution,
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY proposed to amend by adding: "Provided the publishers
                                of said papers agree to publish liberal abstracts of the Legislative
                                proceedings." 
                            On motion by Mr. BOYD, the resolution and pending amendment were
                                referred to the select committee on Reporting.
                            
                        
                        
                            NEW NATIONAL ARMORY.
                            Mr. HUNTER (by unanimous consent) introduced a joint resolution (No.
                                3) instructing and requesting our Senators and Representatives in
                                Congress to use their influence to procure the location of the
                                National Armory for the Western States at the Falls of the Ohio on
                                the Indiana side; which was passed the first reading. 
                            Mr. MURRAY inquired with reference to the disposition of the bills
                                pending at the close of the special session. 
                            The SPEAKER. The Chair believes they are placed on file with the
                                State Librarian. 
                             On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, the credentials of members af the House of
                                Representatives, still on file with the Clerk, were ordered to be
                                referred to theCommittee on Elections.
                            Mr. HARNEY (by leave) introduced a bill (No. 16) to amend the 3d
                                section of an act, defining misdemeanors and prescribing punishments
                                therefor, approved June 14, 1852 approved March 7, 1857; which was
                                passed the first reading. 
                            The House then (at 3:15 o'clock) adjourned. 
                        
                        
                    
                    



                    
                        IN SENATE
                        
                            Tuesday, January 11, 1859 
                        
                        
                            STANDING COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER offered a resolution embracing an entire list of
                                Standing Committees. 
                            Mr. JONES Moved its reference to a select committee of one from each
                                Congressional District. 
                            Mr. WALLACE contended that the President of the Senate should appoint
                                the Standing Committees in accordance with time-honored usage. 
                            Mr. MURRAY insisted that it was the province of the Senate to arrange
                                its own committees.
                            Mr. HEFFREN said that the Republican party was responsible for
                                legislation in this body, and consequently he was willing they
                                should shape the committees of the Senate. He moved to lay the
                                motion of the Senator from Bartholomew [Mr. Jones] on the table.
                            The motion was rejected by yeas 18 nays,30.
                            
                            The original motion was agreed to and the resolution was referred to
                                a special committee of one from each Congressional District, which
                                the PRESIDENT pro tempore subsequently made to
                                consist of Senators Jones, Hargrove, Anthony, Stevens, Bennett,
                                Jennings, McLean, Wagner, Miller, Hamilton and Murray. 
                        
                        
                             SENATORS GOODING, MARSH AND MILLER. 
                             Mr. HEFFREN offered the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Secretary of State be
                                            requested to furnish the Senate the dates of the
                                            respective commissions as Common Pleas Judges in the
                                            year 1852, of Hon. Hugh Miller, Hon. Wa ter March and
                                            Hon. David S. Gooding, and at what time the commissions
                                            of their successors were dated in 1856, or if any of
                                            them resigned, the date of the resignation of the same.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HEFFREN stated that the resolution was simply for the purpose of
                                putting facts before the select committee appointed to investigate
                                these several cases.
                            The resolution was adopted.
                            Mr. HEFFREN, presented the petition of George Leachman, claiming that
                                he was elected a Senator from the counties of Shelby and Hancock in
                                October, 1857, to the place of Mr. Gooding.
                            Mr. HAMILTON moved to refer the paper to the above committee of one
                                from each Congressional District.
                            Mr. GOODING made a statement of the case offering to resign, if the
                                Senate would accept of Esquire Leachman as the legal Senator from
                                Hancock and Shelby.
                            Mr. MARCH said that this paper was not made out in a legal manner,
                                and he had no doubt it was intended as a hoax.
                            Mr. MURRAY also regarded this paper as a sham, because it did not
                                show from what district the person claimed to be elected.
                             On motion by Mr. WALLACE, the paper was laid on the table.
                            On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, the vote adopting the resolution was
                                reconsidered. The resolution was then laid on the table - yeas 34,
                                nays 11.

                        
                        
                             INTEREST ON MONEY. 
                            Mr. MILLER offered the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That it is the sense of this
                                            Senate that the law regulating the interest on the use
                                            of money should be so amended as to allow the taking of
                                            ten per cent, where a contract to that effect has been
                                            entered into. But without such contract, six per cent,
                                            to be the legal rate of interest. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. MILLER said he would like to have a test vote upon this question
                                by yeas and nays.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, by leave, submitted a petition, embracing the same
                                idea, from citizens of Allen county, and moved that it be referred
                                to a committee of five.
                            Mr. LINE desired to see the rates of interest in Indiana equal to
                                that in the adjoining States. He should vote for the resolution
                                offered by the Senator from Fulton. 


                            Mr. McLEAN thought this was one of the most important questions
                                likely to come before the Legislature. He moved it be madethe
                                special order for Tuesday next at 2 o'clock P.M.
                            Mr. ANTHONY was in favor of removing the present restrictions upon
                                money-lenders; but any new measure must be carefully guarded.
                            Mr. GOODING saw no impropriety in the consideration of the
                                resolution, but he would not indicate his opinion on the subject at
                                this time.
                            Mr. RICE said this question should not be passed without due
                                consideration. It would be improper, perhaps, for the Senate to
                                commit itself to the proposition now.
                            Mr. MARCH saw no necessity for taking the sense of the Senate now. He
                                was opposed to a law authorizing any interest higher than six per
                                cent, because he did not believe the masses of the people demanded
                                it.
                            Mr. WEIR hoped the Senate would come to a direct vote upon the
                                question. He was in favor of abolishing the usury laws. He moved to
                                lay the motion of the Senator from Vigo (Mr. McLean) on the table;
                                but withdrew for - 
                            Mr. WAGNER, who said he was the representative of money-borrowers,
                                that he thought ten per centum was the usual rate of interest, and
                                that money was worth ten per cent. He thought it best to send the
                                matter to a special committee.
                            Mr. STEELE remarked that as this was one of the questions upon which
                                he was elected he desired to be heard upon it at the proper
                                time.
                            Mr. WEIR renewed his motion to lay on the table the motion to
                                postpone.
                            This motion was agreed to, and the question recurring upon the
                                reference of the resolution to a committee of five - 
                            Mr. MARCH moved to amend as follows:

                            Add to the resolution the following: "But in actions upon contracts
                                for a rate of interest exceeding six and not exacting ten per cent.
                                the plaintiff shall recover judgment for only six per cent."

                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to further amend as follows. 

                            
                                "That all judgments rendered on notes and
                                    contracts drawing ten per cent, interest shall also draw the
                                    same rate of interest."
                            

                            Mr. STUDABAKER moved to refer the resolution and amendments to tht
                                special committee proposed.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to make the subject the special order for
                                to-morrow 2 o'clock P.M. 
                            The motion was rejected.
                            Mr. BOBBS was opposed to the resolution and petition.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to lay the motion of the Senator from Adams (Mr.
                                Studabaker) on the table. 
                             The motion was rejected.
                             On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the whole subject was laid on the
                                table.
                        
                        
                            ISSUES IN VACATION.
                             Mr. WEIR offered the following: 
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That a select committee of
                                            three be appointed for the purpose of inquiring into the
                                            expediency of so amending the practice in Courts as to
                                            provide for making up issues of law in vacation, and
                                            that they report by bill or otherwise 
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. GOODING moved to amend by striking out the word "three" and
                                inserting "five."
                            Mr. WEIR accepted. 
                        
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION. 
                            The resolution of the Senator from Laporte (Mr. Weir) pending when
                                the Senate took a recess, was adopted, and the PRESIDENT pro tempore makes the committee to consist of
                                Senators Weir, Heffren, Wallace, Gooding and Anthony. 
                        
                        
                             POSTAGE STAMPS. 
                            Mr. WEIR offered the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper furnish
                                            each Senator and officer of the Senate $3 worth of
                                            stamps to enable them to distribute necessary documents.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. GREEN moved to amend by making it $4 worth one sheet of red
                                stamps and one sheet of blue stamps.
                            Mr. WEIR accepted the amendment.
                            The resolution was adopted.
                        
                        
                             THE DIVORCE LAW.
                            Mr. CONNER introduced a bill (No. 1) to amend sections 6, 7, 12, 19
                                and 20 of an act regulating the granting of divorces, approved May
                                13, 1852, and providing for pending decrees in cases therein
                                specified, and the time when this act shall take effect. Which was
                                read through and passed to the second reading. 
                            The bill proposes to amend section 6 of the act of 1852, so at to
                                require a residence of one year in the State and six months in the
                                county where the petition is filed: To amend the third specification
                                of section seven so amended as to require abandonment for one year:
                                To amend section twelve so as require a personal service of ten days
                                only: To amend section 19 so as to allow the Court a discretion in
                                all cases to make such allowance for alimony: To amend section 20,
                                so as to entitle the husband to the same rights, so far as his real
                                estate, only, is concerned, he would have upon the wife's death.
                            Section 6 of the bill provides, under certain restrictions, that a
                                party against whom a judgment of Divore has been or shall hereafter
                                be rendered, without other notice than publication in a newspaper,
                                may have the same opened and be admitted to a defense. 
                        
                        
                            GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                            On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, the special order for the consideration
                                of the Governor's message was postponed till Thursday nex, at two
                                o'clock, P. M. 

                        
                        
                             UNITED STATES SENATORS. 
                            Mr. WALLACE introduced a bill (No. 2) regulating the choosing of
                                United States Senators by the General Assembly, and providing for
                                the designation of said officers by the people; which was read
                                through and passed to the second reading.
                            The following are the provisions of this bill.
                             Section 1 requires the Legislature at its regular session, next
                                preceding the expiration of a United States Senatorial term, to
                                choose a United States Senator.
                            Section 2 provides, that the voters of the State at the annual
                                election, prior to the choosing by the Legislature, shall designate
                                some person for United States Senator.
                            Section 3 makes it the duty of county clerks and Sheriffs to give
                                notice that a Senator is to be designated; such notice to be given
                                by them in the certificate of offices to be filled; it also
                                specifies that the mode of such designation shall be in conformity
                                with the law regulating general elections now in force.
                            Section four provides, that the county clerks, in their statements to
                                the Secretary of State, shall specify the votes given, and for whom
                                given, in such designation.
                            Section five provides for a comparison by the Secretary of State of
                                the number of votes given for United States Senator; requires the
                                Secretary to certify to the Governor the person who has received the
                                highest number of vctes; and makes it the duty of the Governor by
                                message to inform the General Assembly of the result of the
                                comparison, and to name the person designated.
                             Section six declares, that such designation shall have the effect of
                                instructions from the people to the Legislature to choose the person
                                dasignated United States Senator.
                            By section seven, the General Assembly shall, on the first Tuesday of
                                the electing session, at 2 o'clock, P. M., by the seperate viva voce
                                vote of the two Houses, choose a United States Senator.
                            Section eight requires the presiding officers of the two Houses to
                                report the result of such choosing, and thereupon the Governor shall
                                transmit to the person chosen his credentials.
                            Section nine provides for the appointmeBt of a person by the Governor
                                to fill vacancies occurring in the office of United States Senator,
                                by death or resignation; limiting the appointment thus made to the
                                next ensuing general election, when a designation by the people
                                shall take place. 
                            Mr. GREEN introduced a bill (No. 3) attaching the counties of
                                Hancock, Madison, Hamilton and Tipton to the Seventh Judicial
                                circuit, fixing the time of holding the courts thereof, and
                                repealing all laws in conflict therewith; which was read through the
                                first time. 
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY,the rules were suspendedyeas 47, nays 0and
                                the bill read by title the second time, and referred to a select
                                committee of five, which the PRESIDENT pro tem.,
                                makes to consist of Senators Green, Gooding, Craven, March and
                                Murray. 
                            Mr. STUDABAKER introduced a bill (No. 4) to amend the 73d section of
                                an act to provide for the valuation and assessment of real and
                                personal property, approved June 21, 1853; which was read through
                                and passed to the second reading. 
                            This bill provides that in 1855 and every five years thereafter,
                                there shall be enumerated domestic and farm animals of all kinds,
                                and the quantities in bushels and tons of farm products of every
                                kind. 
                            Mr. BENNETT introduced a bill (No. 5) to amend the first section of
                                an act concerning the interest on money, approved May 27,1852; which
                                was read through and passed to the second reading.
                            The bill provides that interest on money at the rate of ten per cent,
                                per annum may be contracted for and received, when stipulated for in
                                written contracts, otherwise at the rate of six per cent.
                            Mr. SLACK introduced a bill (No. 6) providing for the safe keeping
                                and disbursing of public revenues of counties and the State, and
                                fixing the salary of the Treasurer of State; which was read through
                                and passed to the second reading. 
                            
                             This bill provides for the safe keeping and distributing of the
                                public moneys of the counties and State - prohibits the loaning,
                                depositing, exchanging, or otherwise disposing of the public funds,
                                but requires the officers in charge thereof, to keep them in the
                                safe and vaults provided therefor, to be paid out only upon the
                                warrant of the proper officers. It provides fora thorough
                                examination of the State and county treasurer's office, and that all
                                payments out of the county and State treasury after the first of
                                June. 1859, shall be made in specie, or the specie paying banks of
                                the State of Indiana.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON introduced a bill (No. 7) to prohibit the issue of
                                unauthorized paper currency, and uncurrent and broken bank notes,
                                and prescribing punishment therefor; which was passed to the second
                                reading.
                            Mr. HAMILTON introduced a bill (No 8) to amend an act concerning real
                                property and the alienation thereof, approved May 6, 1852; which was
                                read through, and, under a suspension of the rules, it was passed
                                the second and the third and last reading in the Senate yeas 47,
                                nays 0 Senators Beeson, Jones and Shoemaker not voting. 
                            This bill provides that any alien may acquire and hold lands by
                                devise or desceut, and may convey, mortgage and devise, and if he
                                die intestate, the same shall descend to his heirs in like manner as
                                if such alien were a native citizen of this State, or of the United
                                States. 
                             Mr. CARNAHAN introduced a bill (No. 9) for the creation of
                                townships, election of township trustees, duties of trustees, and
                                the manner of assessing tax and doing township business, which was
                                passed to the second reading.
                            Mr. FISK introduced a bill (No. 10) regulating and restraining the
                                sale of intoxicating liquors, to prevent drunkenness and crime, and
                                repealing all laws in conflict with this act; which was passsed to
                                the second reading.
                            This bill provides that no person shall sell any spiritous or
                                intoxicating liquors without filing a bond in any sum not less than
                                $1,000 nor more than $4,0OO, conditioned for the keeping of a
                                peaceable and orderly house and for the payment of all fines
                                penalties and damages arising from the intoxication of the
                                purchaser. It requires the payment of a license of not less than
                                $25, no more than $500. Selling without such license is finable not
                                less than $10, nor more than $100. It provides against selling to
                                any idiot, insane person, Indian, or intoxicated person. It provides
                                that any intoxicated person creating a disturbance, shall be liable
                                to work one day on the road for such offence. It provides against
                                the sale off liquor on Sunday, and adulerated liquors. It gives the
                                right of actions for injuries;, received from the sale and use of
                                liquors to wife, child parent or guardian, of the offender, It
                                authorizes the manufacturer and druggist to sell in any quantity. It
                                authorizes any person to be prosecuted for violations of this act;
                                requires a written order to justify sale to a minor; authorizes any
                                farmer or agriculturist to make and sell wine or cider made by
                                themselves, and confers jurisdiction of offences arising under this
                                act to courts of Common Pleas, Justices and mayors of cities and
                                towns.
                            Mr. BOBBS introduced a bill (No. 11) to organize a Board of
                                Commissioners of the Sinking Fund, and defining their powers and
                                duties; which was passed to the second re[?]ing.
                            Mr. HEFFREN introduced a bill (No. 12) declaring the taking of
                                unlawful in[?]misdemeanor and prescribing pr[?]therefor and
                                repealing all laws [?]therewith; which was passed t[?]reading.
                            Mr. TURNER introduced a bill (No. 13) to amend sections 20, 28, 32
                                and 51 of an act regulating the sale of swamp lands donated to this
                                State by the United States, approved May 29, 1852; which was read
                                through and passed to the second reading.
                            This bill provides for the appointment of swamp land commissioners by
                                the county commissioners, instead ofthe governor: also requiring the
                                commissioner to give bonds for the faithful discharge of duty, and
                                requiring the Auditor of State to be satisfied of the correctness of
                                the certificate before auditing the same.
                            Mr. BLAIR introduced a bill (No. 14) to amend section one of an act
                                to amend section five of an act to provide for a more uniform mode
                                of doing township business, approved May 1, 1853; which was read
                                through, and passed to the second reading.
                            This bill dispenses with the seperate offices of clerk and treasurer
                                requiring the trustees to designate one of their number to act as
                                clerk, and another as treasurer. It also requires them to fix
                                regular times for meetings, not oftener than once in two months, and
                                no special meeting shall be called for transacting road
                                business.
                            Mr. MURRAY introduced a bill (No. 15) to amend to the 103d section of
                                a law reform act, approved June 17, 1852; which was read through and
                                passed to the second reading.
                            This bill provides for a change in the practice in criminal actions,
                                that the Prosecuting Attorney may open and close the argument to the
                                jury in effect repealing the change introduced in the act of 1852,
                                giving to the defendant the privilege of closing the argument to the
                                jury.
                            Mr. McLEAN introduced a bill (No. 16) to amend the first section of
                                an act regulating the vending of foreign merchandize, approved June
                                15, 1852; and for the encouragement of agriculture; which was passed
                                to the second reading(with reference to caravans' and pedlars'
                                license.)
                            Mr. WALLACE obtained unanimous consent to submit the following report
                                from the committee appointed to inquire into the expediency of
                                employing an official Reporter:
                            MR. PRESIDENT: - The committee to whom was referred the resolution
                                relative to the election of a Reporter, &c., beg leave to report
                                that, owing to the failure of the House to agree on a system, such
                                as was heretofore suggested by your committee, it is now, in their
                                opinion, inexpedient to take any other steps in the matter. After a
                                full investigation of the subject, your committee, beg leave to
                                suggest to the Senate, that it is a needless expense to subscribe
                                for papers other than those of daily issue,and for none of them,
                                unless, they will report proceedings as full as heretofore reported
                                in the "Legislative Sentinel."
                            On motion by Mr. SLACK, the report was laid on the table.
                            And then the Senate adjourned.
                        
                    



                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                        
                            Tuesday, January 11, 1859 
                        
                        Mr. KEEFER asked and obtained excuse [?] serving on the
                                Committee on the affairs [?]e town of
                                Indianapolis.
                        
                        Mr. STANFIELD presented the petitions of [?] Davis and Reuben Farnsworth,
                            appoint[?] be special prosecutors in the St. Joseph [?], praying for
                            compensation, which was [?]d referred to the Committee on
                                Claims.
                        
                        

                        
                            RESOLUTIONS.

                             Mr. TURPIE submitted the following, which was adopted: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                upon Roads be required to inquire into the
                                            expediency of so amending the road law as to have the
                                            two day's labor, by law required, to be expended on or
                                            before the first day of August, instead of the first day
                                            of June, as now provided. 
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. LAWHEAD submitted the following, which was adopted: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Corporations be instructed to inquire
                                            into the propriety of so amending the law providing for
                                            the incorporation of Bridges and Plank Road Companies,
                                            that they can not collect tolls unless they are kept in
                                            good repair, and that they report by bill or
                                            otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. CARR submitted the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Benevolent Institutions, be instructed to
                                            inquire into the expediency of erecting another Insane
                                            Asylum in the county of Clark, at or near the city of
                                            Jeffersonville, instead of enlarging the present Asylum
                                            in Marion county, and report by bill or otherwise. 
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. BROTHERTON submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                         Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on County and Township Business be
                                            requested to inquire into the expediency of abolishing
                                            the office of Township Assessor, and substituting that
                                            of County Assessor, and report by bill or otherwise.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. SLACK submitted the following, which was adopted:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on the
                                            Judiciary be instructed to inquire into the
                                            constitutionality of the forms and precedents found in
                                            the Statutes of 1852, both civil and criminal, and
                                            report the result of their investigations to this House.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        


                        
                             NEWSPAPERS.
                            Mr. FIRESTONE submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper be
                                            instructed to subscribe for and procure to be laid upon
                                            the desk of each member of this House, during the
                                            present session, three copies of the following
                                            newspapers, to wit : The Daily State
                                                Sentinel. the Daily Journal,
                                            the Weekly Volksblatt, the Weekly Frie Presse, and the Indiana American, two of which copies
                                            respectively shall be enveloped and stamped.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed to amend by inserting "three copies of the Frie
                                Presse" which was agreed to affirmative 44, negative 30.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, proposed to amend by adding the Hendricks
                                Ledger and the Boone County Pioneer to be remitted by mail.
                            Mr. POWER proposed three copies of the Northern Indianan, published
                                in Kosciusko county.
                            Mr. HAMILTON. If we are to divide out this matter, I want a share for
                                my county.
                            Mr. MURRAY desired only to take such papers as report legislative
                                proceedings. He moved the previous question, and there was a second,
                                and under its force - 
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY hoped the House would unanimously consent to an
                                amendment to the amendment, adding these words; "Provided they
                                publish a liberal abstract of the proceedings of the
                                Legislature."
                            Mr. DAVIS desired unanimous cons[?] add the little daily down in
                                Vernon. [Laughter"no."]
                            Mr. HAMILTON'S amendment as ame[?]was rejected, and the question
                                recurring on the adoption of the resolution as amended by Mr.
                                Murray, the vote resultedyeas 56, nays 37, as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. Messrs. Austin, Black, Blythe,
                                            Bowman, Boxley, Brotherton, Carr, Cavins, Clark,
                                            Claypool, Colgrove, Collier, Comstock, Cotton, Davis,
                                            Dobbins, Early, Eastham, Edwards, Firestone, Gifford,
                                            Griffin, Hall of Grant. Hancock, Hartley, Jeflfries,
                                            Jones, Kelly, Kempf, Lawhead, Lewis, McLain, Mansfield.
                                            Massey, Miller, Murray, Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion,
                                            Nebeker of Warren, Nelson, Power, Ritter. Row, Sherman,
                                            Smith of Miami, Stanfield, Stinson, Sullivan, Thompson
                                            of Elkhart, Turpie, Wheeler, Whetzel, Whiteman. Wildman,
                                            Wood, and Mr. Speaker. - 56. 
                                        NAYS.Messrs. Boyd, Clayton, Clements,
                                            Dougherty, Durham, Duvoll, Fordyce, Gregory, Hall of
                                            Rush, Hamilton of Boone. Hamilton of Wayne, Harney.
                                            Harrison, Hunter, Johnston, Jordan, Knowlton, Major,
                                            Mellet, Newton, Parks, Prosser, Robinson, Rynerson,
                                            Scott, Shields, Shockley, Shull, Snyder, Stanley,
                                            Stiles, Summers, Tebbs, Thompson of Madison, Treadway,
                                            and Waterman, - 37. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the Resolution was adopted.
                            Mr. PARKS submitted the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Roads inquire into the expediency of so
                                            amending the road law as to require the Supervisors of
                                            Roads to expend all road moneys for the improvement of
                                            roads, in the districts where the same shall be
                                            collected. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. SULLIVAN submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper report
                                            the number of his assistants, and their names, to this
                                            House immediately. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, submitted the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper be
                                            instructed to contract for the newspapers, authorized
                                            this day, at rates not exceeding those for which they
                                            are furnished to subscribers. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, it was laid on the table.
                            Mr. WATERMAN submitted the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                County and Township Business be instructed
                                            to report a bill, so amending the Road Law as to require
                                            the road work to be done by teb first day of August in
                                            each year. 
                                    

                                
                            
                            Mr. KEMPF submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper be
                                            instructed to ascertain tbe boarding-housed of the
                                            members of this House, in order to facilitate business
                                            when it becomes necessary to send for absentees.
                                            [Laughter" consent."] 
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. WILDMAN sulmitted the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper procure
                                            from the State Librarian, one copy of Jefferson's Manual
                                            for each member of this House, to be returned at the
                                            close of the session. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             The SPEAKER laid before the House the memorial of the State
                                Teacher's Association for the year 1859, on the imperfections of the
                                present School law.
                            Mr. BLYTHE, understanding that this paper contains a very able
                                discussion of the subject, moved that it be laid on the table, and
                                that five hundred copies be printed for the House of
                                Representatives.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. COLGROVE submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That three members be added
                                            to the Judiciary 
                                    
                                
                            



                            
                            Mr. STANFIELD, as a member of that Committee, considered that a
                                larger number would only embarrass its action. He thought the House
                                should not increase the number without the recommendation of the
                                Committee itself.
                            Mr. COLGROVE. During the past several sessions we have never had less
                                than nine. I have never found the number embarrassing. It is
                                frequently difficult to get the committee together.
                            Mr. STANFIELD. During the costly session of 1852, nearly the whole
                                revision of that session went through their hands, and that
                                committee consisted of but seven members.
                            The resolution was adopted on a division affirmative 43, negative
                                36.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Wayne, submitted the following, which was adopted by
                                consent:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper be
                                            requested to distribute, at the Desks of the members of
                                            this House, the Legislative Sentinel. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. NEWTON submitted the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper be
                                            instructed, and he is hereby authorized to contract with
                                            the publishers of the Daily Citizen and Weekly
                                            Locomotive, for three copies of their respective papers
                                            for each member of this House, during the session, and
                                            have the same laid on the desks of members - two copies
                                            of each to be enveloped and stamped. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            It was rejected.
                            Mr. SUMMERS submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That it is the opinion of
                                            this House, that the mode of doing township business
                                            should be so changed that we shall have but one Trustee,
                                            instead of three, and dispensing with the use of the
                                            Clerk and Treasurer. 

                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. HARRISON objected to the presentation of resolutions precisely
                                similar to those offered at the extra session, and now fully before
                                the committees.
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed to refer the resolution to the Committee on
                                Township Business, with instructions to report by bill or
                                otherwise.
                            The amendment was agreed to, and the bill was so referred.
                            Mr. KELLY submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Agriculture inquire into the expediency
                                            of levying a tax on dogs, and report by bill or
                                            otherwise. 
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            CLERKS FOR THE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND
                                    MEANS. 
                            Mr. SMITH, of Perry, submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                         Resolved,  That the Committee
                                                on Ways and Means be authorized to employ
                                            three persons, one of whom shall be conversant with the
                                            laws of the State and the decisions of the Courts one
                                            shall be familiar with the general operations in
                                            collecting and distributing the public revenue, and one
                                            shall be an expert and capable accountant for the
                                            purpose of making a thorough examination of the books,
                                            vouchers, papers and documents in the public offices ant
                                            benevolent institutions at the seat of Government, and,
                                            if possible, for the purpose of introducing more
                                            simplicity, system and accuracy in keeping the public
                                            accounts, ant of reporting the same to the Legislature;
                                            and if such persons are thus employed, the officers of
                                            these institutions and offices are directed to give such
                                            aid, by the exhibition of all such papers and
                                            communication of all such facts in their possession, as
                                            will facilitate the results contemplated by this
                                            resolution.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. SMITH said: After some experience in the Committee on
                                    Ways and Means, I am obliged to say we find it
                                impossible to make a satisfactory examination of the books in the
                                various State offices at Indianapolis without this aid. I ought,
                                perhaps, to say that the root of this evil is in the reports made in
                                the office of the State Auditor. So far as I have been able to
                                compare the reports of the Auditors of the State of Indiana with the
                                reports of other State Auditors, ours has been certainly far the
                                most imperfect. I doubt whether there can be found any report
                                emanating from any public officer of the country so imperfect and
                                unsatisfactory as that of the Indiana State Auditor, which is
                                presented to us here from year to year. The desire of the committee
                                is to remedy this evil, and to begin as far back as necessary to
                                find out where these errors were first introduced. It is impossible
                                for the committee, or for any ordinary clerk to do this. It may be
                                that the committee have the power to hire these clerks of
                                themselves, but, inasmuch as it will be a little more expensive than
                                the hire of ordinary clerks, we have thought it better to ask
                                authority of the House.
                            To show the difficulties under which we have labored, I have here a
                                statement drawn from the reports of the Auditor of State of the
                                condition of the State Debt Sinking Fund. This fund was created in
                                1852 - intended for the reduction of the State debt, by purchasing
                                and returning the bonds of the State. [He reads from the act
                                creating said fund, to show the duty of the Auditor and Agent of
                                State in making the purchases, prescribing how they were to take the
                                number and description of the bonds, the amount of interest received
                                thereon, how the purchase was to be effected, and so on,] of which
                                he alleged there had been no full report; the present Auditor having
                                informed him that neither himself or his predecessors had noticed
                                these directions of the statute. But in looking at the report he
                                found discrepencies; there was a difference between the balance due
                                the Fund Nov. 1, 1858, by one statement, and the amount of the
                                balance shown by the Auditor's report, of $5,480 48. This difference
                                is caused by the Auditor not including the balance which I find in
                                the report of 1854. I have not yet been able to find in the books of
                                the office any credit or entry of these $5,480 48 reported in 1854,
                                or the amount on hand at the beginning of that financial year. The
                                amount of interest can not be ascertained precisely from the data
                                within our reach, but as near as the Committee can estimate, it is
                                $43,246 88. The interest upon the bonds purchased by this Fund is
                                not reported, except $483 65, reported and added in in with the
                                principal by Auditor Dunn in 1854, and $2,848 28 on book Jan. 1855,
                                and $6,602 92 on book Jan. 18, 1857, supposed to. be interest added
                                in with the principalin all $10,294 65. The amount reported by
                                Auditor Dodd is $28,877 89, and the sum of these, from  the $43,246 88 leaves $4,134 34 wholly
                                unaccounted for. These large amounts being thus vaguely accounted
                                for in this particular Fund, it would seem that there is a necessity
                                for a full examination, and that these erroneous entries should be
                                corrected. It will be certainly necessary to go back as far as 1852,
                                and require all the clerkical force called for in the resolutionto
                                examine not only the Auditor's office, but all the offices of the
                                Benevolent Institutions, so that we may be able to act
                                un-derstandingly in the premises.
                            The resolution was adopted.
                            Mr. FIRESTONE submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                         Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on the Judiciary be instructed to inquire
                                            into the expediency of providing by law for the payment
                                            of costs in State cases, in such cases as said committee
                                            may deem proper, and that said committee report by bill
                                            or otherwise. 

                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                             Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, introduced a bill (No. 17) to amend an Act
                                entitled "An Act denning misdemeanors, and prescribing punishment
                                therefor," approved June 14, 1852.
                            Mr. TURPIE introduced a bill (No. 18) to repeal an Act entitled an
                                Act to provide for the protection of wild game, defining the times
                                in which the same may be taken or killed, and declaring penalties
                                for the violation of this act, approved February 25, 1857.
                            Mr. MELLETT introduced a bill (No. 19) to prohibit any officer,
                                clerk, deputy, employee or agent, having in charge, or under his
                                control, any of the public funds of the State, or any county
                                thereof, from making any fraudulent entry concerning the same
                                declaring the same to be a penalty and providing penalties
                                therefor.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, introduced a bill (No. 20) to prevent wearing
                                concealed or dangerous weapons, and to provide punishment
                                therefor.
                            Mr. SCOTT introduced a bill (No. 21) to provide for voluntary
                                assignments of personal and real property in trust for benefit of
                                creditors, and regulating the mode of administering the same.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, introduced a bill (No. 22) to amend the
                                first, second and third sections of an Act approved May 27, 1852,
                                entitled an Act concerning the interest on money.
                            Mr. EARLY introduced a bill (No. 23) to legalize the commission of
                                Justice of the Peace issued to L. B. Osborn, of Jackson county, and
                                to legalize his acts under it.
                            Mr. ROBINSON introduced a bill (No. 24) to regulate the sale of
                                intoxicating liquors, and prescribing penalties for the violation of
                                this act.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN introduced a bill (No. 25) to amend section 10 of the act
                                providing for the election and qualification of Justices of the
                                Peace, and defining their jurisdiction, powers and duties in civil
                                cases; approved June 19, 1852.
                            Mr. TREADWAY introduced a bill (No. 26) to protect witnesses from
                                insult on examination before a Court or Jury.
                            Mr. JEFFRIES introduced a bill (No. 27) to authorize plank,
                                McAdamized or graveled road companies to consolidate their stock
                                with other similar companies, and to assume a new name, combining
                                the powers of said consolidated companies.
                            Mr. BLYTHE introduced a bill (No. 28) to provide for the use of
                                evidence or depositions taken to perpetuate testimony prior to the
                                taking effect of the statutes of 1852, and for the perpetuation of
                                testimony heretofore taken, or hereafter to be taken, &c.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD introduced a bill (No. 29) to license, regulate and
                                restrain the sale of spirituous, vinous, malt, or intoxicating
                                liquors; to prevent drunkenness and crime; to prevent the
                                adulteration of liquors, and to repeal all former laws in conflict
                                with this act.
                            Mr. POWER introduced a bill (No. 30) to repeal the act establishing
                                Courts of Conciliation, to prescribe rules and proceedings therein,
                                and compensation for the Judges thereof; approved June 11, 1852.
                            Mr. SCOTT introduced a bill (No. 31) to amend the 238th section of
                                the Law Reform Act, of June 18, 1852.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN introduced a bill (No. 32) for the redemption of real
                                estate sold on execution, or order of sale issued out of any Court,
                                and defining the duties of the person or officer selling the
                                same.
                            Mr. NELSON introduced a bill (No. 33) to amend section 63 of the act
                                defining misdemeanors, and prescribing punishment therefor, approved
                                June 14, 1852.
                            Mr. BLYTHE introduced a bill (No. 34) prescribing the manner of
                                impanneling petit jurors and fixing the number and compensation
                                thereof.
                            Mr. DURHAM introduced a bill (No. 35) to regulate the sale of
                                spirituous liquors.
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD introduced a bill (No. 36) to amend the second section
                                of an act fixing the time of holding the Circuit Courts in the Ninth
                                Judicial District, approved March 1, 1855.
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading. 

                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. PROSSER introduced a bill (No. 37) to amend the 33d section of
                                the Law Reform Act of June 18, 1852, so as to provide that no suit
                                against the maker of any written or assigned contract, with or
                                without acknowledgment, shall be brought, except in the county where
                                such maker resides, (except where lies a capias ad respondendum.) 
                            Mr. TURPIE introduced a bill (No. 38) to fix the time of holding and
                                the length of sessions of Boards of Township Trustees in the several
                                counties of this State, and to repeal  section 11 of an act entitled an act
                                to provide for a more uniform mode of doing township business,
                                approved April 6, 1852. 
                             Mr. BROTHERTON introduced a bill (No. 39) to amend section 37, of
                                chapter 6, of the second volume of the Revised Statutes of 1852,
                                entitled an act defining misdemeanors and prescribing punishment
                                therefor, approved June 14, 1852.
                            Mr. MURRAY introduced a bill (No. 40) requiring the Auditor of State
                                to pay over money or stock to the proprietors or stockholders of the
                                free banks.
                            Mr. SHULL introduced a bill (No. 41) to amend section 9 of the act
                                providing for the election of clerks of the Circuit Courts, and
                                prescribing some of their duties, approved June 1, 1852.
                            Mr. DOBBINS introduced a bill (No. 42) to amend the 21st section of
                                the act defining misdemeanors, and prescribing punishment therefor,
                                approved June 14, 1852.
                            Mr. AUSTIN introduced a bill (No. 43) to suppress tippling houses, to
                                punish drunkenness, and to regulate the sale, barter and giving away
                                of spirituous or malt liquors, wine and cider.
                            Mr. KEMPF (remarking thereon by leave) introduced a bill (No. 44) to
                                amend section 3 of Article 2 of the Constitution of the State of
                                Indiana. (Of foreign born voters.)
                            Mr. FORDYCE introduced a bill (No. 45) to provide for perpetuating
                                the records of surveys of lands in the different counties of this
                                State.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, introduced a bill (No. 46) to repeal an act
                                entitled, An act providing for the election, fixing the compensation
                                and prescribing the duties of the Attorney General of the State of
                                Indiana.
                            Mr. COLGROVE introduced a bill (No. 47) to provide for the
                                reorganization of the Circuit Courts, for the election of the Judges
                                thereof, defining their powers, duties and jurisdiction, fixing
                                their salaries, and the number of the terms of said court, providing
                                for adjourned terms thereof, for transferring to said courts the
                                probate business of the Courts of Common Pleas, and repealing
                                conflicting laws.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Wayne, introduced a bill (No. 48) to amend the 6th
                                section of the act providing for the organization of County Boards
                                and prescribing some of their powers and duties, approved June 17,
                                1852.
                            Mr. ROBINSON introduced a bill (No. 49) for reducing the width of the
                                Michigan road to 40 feet.
                            Mr. TREADWAY introduced a bill (No. 50) to amend the 31st section of
                                the act providing for the election or appointment of supervisors of
                                highways, and prescribing some of their duties, and those of
                                township officers in relation thereto, approved June 18, 1852.
                            Mr. DOBBINS asked and obtained leave to present the petition of
                                sundry "honorable and law abiding citizens, of Martin county," for
                                "a good and wise temperance law, compatible with the Constitution,"
                                which was read and referred to the Committee on
                                    Temperance.
                            Mr. CAVINS had leave to present the temperance petition of sundry
                                residents of the town of Jonesboro', Green county, which took the
                                same direction.
                            Mr. KNOWLTON had leave to present the memorial of Benjamin Powell,
                                against the practice of barring out school masters in holiday
                                times.
                            On motion by Mr. POWER, it was referred to the Committee on
                                    Education.
                            Mr. DAVIS asked and obtained a suspension of the order of business,
                                to enable him to submit the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Auditor of State be
                                            requested to inform the House, as soon as possible, the
                                            amount that was due his predecessor, upon his retirement
                                            from the Auditor's office, and what portion of the same
                                            has been colelcted; also the amount received from all
                                            other sources, since the commencement of the present
                                            term, the amount paid out, the balance on hand, and
                                            where the same is deposited. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. SHERMAN asked and obtained excuse from serving on the Standing
                                Committee on the Canal Fund.
                            [A message from the Senate announced the passage in that body of a
                                bill (S. 8) to amend the first section of the act concerning real
                                property and the alienation thereof, approved May 6, 1852.]
                            The SPEAKER now announced the orders of the dayand bills of the
                                following titles were passed the second reading and referred:
                            Mr. Davis' bill (1) to provide for a Constitutional Convention.
                                Referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Stanfield's bill (2) relative to the salaries of public officers.
                                Referred to the Committee on Fees and
                                Salaries.
                            Mr. Stanfield's bill (3) to amend section 302 of the Practice Act of
                                June, 1852. Referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Prosser's bill (4) to exempt property from execution in certain
                                cases. Referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            The House then (at thirty minutes past 3 o'clock) adjourned 
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            
                                Wednesday, JANUARY 12, 1859.
                            
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            Mr. WAGNER presented the petition of A. S. Stephenson, and others, of
                                Warren county, asking compensation for the arrest and punishment of
                                a horse thief: also, the petition of T. F. Gregory, and others, of
                                Warren county, praying relief from losses sustained in collecting
                                the State revenue; which were referred to the Committee on
                                Claims.
                            Mr. BLAIR presented a petition from the Hendricks county Agricultural
                                Society, praying for some law enabling societies to protect
                                themselves from shows, hucksters, &c.; which was referred to the
                                Committee on Agriculture. 
                            
                        
                        
                            STANDING COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. JONES, Chairman of the select committee on the appointment of
                                standing committees, made the following report, which was
                                adopted:
                            
                                
                                        Judiciary
                                     - Messrs. March, Slack, Anthony, Gooding, Murray, Cobb,
                                    Rice, McLean, Hendry, Wallace, Conner, Bennett and
                                    Heffren.
                                
                                        Finance
                                     - Messrs. Rice, Heffren, March, Hamilton, Steele Jones,
                                    Beeson, Connelly, Blair, Carnahan, Miller and Craven.
                                .
                                        Organisation of Courts
                                     - Messrs. Murray, Wallace, Hendry, Heffren, Green,
                                    Studabaker, Conner, McClure, Weir and Miller.
                                
                                        Elections
                                    - Messrs. Hendry, Jones, Cravens, Wagner,Hargrove,
                                    Jennings, Bobbs. Lomax, Robinson and Fisk.
                                
                                         Federal Relations 
                                    - Messrs. Craven, Thompson, Wilson, Hill, Jones, Cooper,
                                    Line, Brown and Heffrea.
                                
                                        Education
                                    - Messrs. Wagner, Tarkington, Kinley, Wallace, Cravens,
                                    McLean, Culver, O'Brien, Anthony, Heffren and Rice.
                                
                                         Corporations
                                     - Messrs. Conner, Studabaker, Blair, Cobb, Greene,
                                    Tarkington, Steele, Gooding, Stevens and Carnahan.
                                
                                        Military Affairs
                                     - Messrs. Wallace, Brown, Carnahan, Robinson, Line and
                                    Blair.
                                
                                        Roads
                                     - Messrs. Wiliiams, Cooper, Shoemaker, Cul ver, Hargrove,
                                    Beeson, Conley, Slack and Johnston.
                                
                                         Canals and Internal Improvements
                                    - Messrs. Weir, Studabaker, Steele, Tarkington, Beeson and
                                    Cooper.
                                
                                         Affairs of Town of Indianapolis 
                                     - Messrs. Bobbs, Wallace, Benett, Slack, Green and
                                    Kinley.
                                
                                        Claims
                                     - Messrs. Jones, Johnson, Stevens, Carnahan, Thompson,
                                    Wilson, Kinley and Beeson.
                                
                                        State Prison
                                    - Messrs. Anthony, McLean, Weir, Jennings, Rice, McClure,
                                    Hill, Bennett, Cooper, Gooding, Wagner and Tarkington.
                                
                                    
                                        On ExpendituresMessrs Bennett, Jones, Rice, Gooding
                                            and Bobbs.
                                    
                                
                                
                                        On Banks
                                     - Messrs. Steele, Hamilton, Wagner, Jones, Carnahan,
                                    Cooper, Heffren, Blair, McLean, March and Jennings.
                                
                                        On Manufacturers
                                    Messrs Robinson, Lomax, Stevens, Wilson and Bennett.
                                
                                        On Agriculture
                                     - Messrs. Beeson, Williams, Culver, Wilson, Hill. Line,
                                    Wagner and Steele.
                                
                                    
                                        On Unfinished Business
                                     - Messrs. Thompson, Cobb, Kinley, Fisk and Green.
                                
                                        On Benevolent Institutions
                                     - Messrs. Craven, Heffren, Wagner, Odell, Cooper, O'Brien,
                                    Bobbs, Hargrove, Rice and Brown.
                                
                                        On Swamp Lands
                                     - Messrs, Green, Miller, Turner, Williams, Anthony, Weir,
                                    Fisk, March, Odell and Conner.
                                
                                        On Temperance
                                     - Messrs. Gooding, Hendry, Cobb, Conner, Wilson, Craven,
                                    Tarkingtou, Hill, Hamilton, Stevens and Culver.
                                
                                        County and Township Business
                                     - Messrs. Blair, Wallace, Weir, Shoemaker, Brown,
                                    Williams, Robinson, McClure and Culver.
                                
                                        Phraseology and Arrangement of Bills
                                     - Messrs. Kinley, Carnahan, March, Fisk, Weir, Jennings
                                    and Murray.
                                
                                         Printing
                                     - Messrs. Stevens, Johnson, Rice,McLean, Cravens, Gooding,
                                    Culver, Conley, Hargrove, Bobbs, Heffrem and Murray.
                                
                                        Enrolled Bills
                                     - Messrs. Turner, Conley, Bobbs, Hamilton, Cooper,
                                    Shoemaker and Brown.
                                
                                        Rights and Privileges
                                     - Messrs. Hill, Lomax, Kinley, Johnson, Thompson, McLean
                                    and Hendry.
                            
                        
                        
                            JOINT COMMITTEES.
                            
                                
                                        On Public Buildings
                                    Messrs. Culver, Studabaker and Robinson. 
                                
                                        On State Library
                                    Messrs. Wilson, Craven, Tarkington and Murray. 
                            
                             A proposition was again made to subscribe for the newspapers which
                                gave legislative reports, which after a lengthy discussion was
                                referred to a select committee of three.
                            A message was received from the House, announcing the final passage
                                by that body of a bill establishing a Board of Sinking Fund
                                Commissioners, providing for the election of officers thereof and
                                prescribing the duties of said Board.
                            Mr. WALLACE offered a resolution to bring on the election of State
                                officers on Friday next at two o'clock, which after various
                                amendments being proposed was laid upon the table yeas 26, nays
                                21.
                            On motion of Mr. CONNER, 300 copies of the standing committees were
                                ordered to be printed for the use of the Senate.
                            On motion, Senators Weir, Bennet and Heffren, were appointed to
                                inquire if there is any law now in force in this State providing the
                                punishment of the crime of embezzlement.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON offered a resolution providing for letting the State
                                Printing to the lowest responsible bidder, to furnish all materials
                                and give bond for faithful performance work, which was laid upon the
                                tableyeas 23, nays 21.
                            Mr. STEVENS offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                Committee on Road to inquire into the expediency of giving to County
                                Commissioners the power to taxes for the making of gravel and
                                turnpike roads, and report by bill or otherwise.
                        
                        
                            FELONY.
                             Mr. McLEAN offered the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Judiciary
                                                Committee be requested to inquire into the
                                            expediency of so amending the act defining felonies and
                                            prescribing punishment therefor, as to make breach of
                                            trust a felony, punishable by the same penalty as grand
                                            and petit larceny, and that they report by bill or
                                            otherwise. 
                                         The resolution was adopted. 
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
                            Mr. BROWN offered the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                County and Township Businessbe instructed
                                            to inquire into the expediency of amending the law in
                                            relation to County Commissioners, that there shall be
                                            but one commissioner to each county and report by bill
                                            or otherwise. 
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            ALLEN MAY, M. G. BRIGHT AND J. P. DRAKE. 
                            Mr. WEIR offered a joint resolution (No. 2) with regard to the claims
                                of the State against Colonel Alien May, Michael G. Bright and James
                                P. Drake, Esqr's., directing the Attorney General to proceed to the
                                collection o said loans by due process of law, and further providing
                                that if the Attorney General should fail to begin suit within 30
                                days after the passing of this resolution, that the Treasurer of
                                State be authorized to employ other counsel to do the same. 
                             Mr. WALLACE said no blame should be attached to the Attorney General
                                for not bringing on this suit, because he had no authority so to
                                do.
                            Mr. STEELE thought it was somebody's duty.  Mr. WEIR stated, that the resolution
                                was not intended to reflect upon the Attorney General.
                            Mr. FISK moved to amend by inserting the words "unless properly
                                secured to the satisfaction of the Treasurer of State."
                            Mr. CARNAHAN stated that there was suf-ficent property mortgaged and
                                held by Messrs. Bright and Drake, Colonel May's sureties, to secure
                                the full payment of the debt, and all they wanted was time to
                                dispose of the mortgaged property.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON thought this resolution was an entering wedge to the
                                relief of the former Treasurer of State from the payment of certain
                                moneys. He moved - 
                            
                                 "To refer the resolution to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary, and that said committee be requested to report to
                                    this Senate, whether the bringing of such suit will not
                                    discharge the treasurer from an obligation that he is now under
                                    to the State on his bond."
                            
                            Mr. HEFFREN stated that Mr. Bright has a proposition pending before
                                the House of Representatives for the settlement of this whole
                                matter.
                            Mr. SLACK made an ineffectual motion to lay the whole matter on the
                                table.
                            Mr. WALLACE offered the following as additional instructions:
                            
                                "And enquire, whether it will not be accessary
                                    to amend the act of 1855, relative to the duties of Attorney
                                    General."
                            
                            Mr. BENNETT moved to further instruct the committee to inquire into
                                the expediency of abolishing the office of Attorney General.
                            Mr. WALLACE protested against that.
                            Mr. MARCH did not believe there was any need for that office.
                            Mr. HAMILTON made an ineffectual motion to lay instructions on the
                                table.
                            The whole subject was then referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee. 
                        
                        
                            JOURNAL OF THE LAST SESSION.
                             The PRESIDENT  pro tempore laid before the Senate
                                a communication from the Secretary of the Senate, showing that the
                                public printer had made a formal demand upon him for the Senate
                                journal of the last session, for the purpose of printing the same;
                                and delivering the said journal back into the custody of the
                                Senate.
                            Mr. SLACK offered the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Secretary of the
                                            Senate be requested to furnish the State Printer the
                                            journal of the last session of the Senate. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Pending which, the Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION. 

                            On motion by Mr. CONLEY, the committee on township business were
                                requested to inquire into the expediency of changing the method of
                                doing said business so as to have but one trustee, and abolish the
                                offices of treasurer and clerk. 
                        
                        
                            OLD STATE BANKS.
                             Mr. WIER offered a joint resolution (No. 3) with regard to moneys
                                due the State from the old State Bank, and authorizing the
                                appointment of a joint select committee to investigate the
                                matter.
                            Mr. STEELE said it seemed like another bank fraud matter, to
                                institute this investigation.
                            Mr. WIER said the resolution was not offered to cast any reflection
                                upon any officer.
                            Mr. WALLACE moved to postpone the resolution one week from to-day,
                                and if the report from the bank officers was not in by that time, he
                                would move a further postponement.
                            Mr. STEELE moved to lay the resolution on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 32, nays 16. 
                        
                        
                            SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS.
                            On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, the bill (H. R. 10) establishing a Board
                                of Sinking Fund Commissioners, providing for the election thereof,
                                and prescribing the duties of the Board, was taken up, and passed
                                the first and second reading.
                            Mr. WALLACE moved its reference to the Judiciary Committee with
                                instructions to inquire into the expediency of reducing the Board to
                                a President and two commissioners, to prescribe their duties, and to
                                fix the salary of the President and each commissioner.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON moved that the committee be instructed to inquire into
                                the expediency of requiring the payment of the bonds as soon as
                                possible, so as to apply the money coming thereby to the use of
                                common schools.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to further instruct, as to inquire into the
                                expediency of so amending section 9, that the salary of the
                                president of the Board shall not exceed $1,000 per year, and the
                                salary of the clerk of the Board shall not exceed $800 per year. And
                                strike out all that part of section 7 which authorizes the
                                employment of as many assistants as may be deemed necessary.
                            Which propositions to instructive Committee were severally agreed to,
                                and so the bill was referred. 
                        
                        
                            UNITED STATES SENATORS.
                            Mr. PRESIDENT,pro tem., CRAVENS, (Mr. Wagner in the
                                Chair,) desired to present a memorial which he assured gentlemen
                                would not be objectionable to any Senator upon this floor.
                            No objection being made, Mr. Cravens read, from the Secretary's
                                stand, a very long document in relation to the seats of Messrs.
                                Bright and Fitch, in the Senate of the United States, setting forth
                                that it is the wish and desire of the people of the State of
                                Indiana, that H. S. Lane and W. M. McCarty be admitted to the places
                                of Senators Bright and Fitch, that Lane and McCarty were
                                constitutionally elected to said places, &c., &c.
                            
                            On motion by Mr. WALLACE a call of the Senate was had, and the
                                Secretary reported every Senator as present.
                            Mr. WALLACE. I understand this memorial states as a fact that which I
                                can not and do not believe. It is this: That the State of Indiana is
                                not now represented by Senators in the Senate of the United
                                States.
                            Mr. CRAVENS. I asserted that fact in the memorial, because the
                                Legislature has passed a resolution stating that such is the
                                case.
                            Mr. WALLACE then made some remarks, calling into question several
                                matters set forth in this paper.
                            Mr, CRAVENS replied, in defense of his memorial.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to amend by striking out the words " Vice President
                                of the United States." Two years ago the Republican party did not
                                seek to make the Vice President the sewer through which they were to
                                put this thing through the United States Senate - they designated
                                Mr. Trumbull.
                            On Mr. WEIR'S motion the amendment was laid on the table by yeas 28,
                                nays 20.The question being upon the passage - 
                            The yeas and nays were demanded, and being ordered and taken,
                                resulted - yeas 26, nays 6, refusing to vote 18 - as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson, Bennet, Blair, Bobbs,
                                            Brown, Conner, Cooper, Cravens, Craven, Culver, Green,
                                            Hendry. Hill, Jones, Kinley, March, Murray, Rice,
                                            Robinson, Steele, Stevens, Thompson, Turner, Wagner and
                                            Weir - 26.
                                        NAYS. - Messrs. Hamilton, McLeaa, Odell, Shoemaker,
                                            Studabaker and Williams6.
                                        REFUSING TO VOTE. - Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Fisk,
                                            Gooding, Hargrove, Heffren Jennings, Johnston, Line,
                                            Lomax, McClure, Miller, O'Brien, Slack, Tarkington,
                                            Wallace and Wilson -18. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. CARNAHAN, when his name was called said: Believing it to be the
                                case that a majority of the Indiana Legislature elected Messrs.
                                Bright and Fitch, I look upon all this as a farce, and therefore
                                refuse to vote.
                            Mr. HEFFREN, when his name was called, said: In the language of the
                                Senator from Union, (Mr. Bennett) the other day, "It reads very
                                fine, but I don't believe a word of it." I refuse to vote.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON, when his name was called, said: I refuse to vote for
                                the same reason.
                            Mr. McLEAN, when his name was called, said: With the hope that this
                                will be the last grand act in this drama, I shall participate in it
                                by voting "No."
                            Mr. STEVENS, when his name was called, said: The reason that I vote
                                is because I am present, and can not see but one sensible way of
                                voting. I vote "Aye."
                            Mr. WALLACE, when his name was called, asked the Senate to excuse
                                him. The Senate refused to excuse him, and he peremptorily refused
                                to vote.
                            Mr. WILSON, when his name was called, also asked to be excused from
                                voting. The Senate refused, and he said : I wish to I law-abiding
                                man, but I utterly refuse to vote. So the memorial was adopted.
                            And the Senate adjourned. 

                        
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            
                                Wednesday, JANUARY 12, 1859.
                            
                        
                        
                            DEAF AND DUMB AND BLIND.
                             Mr. BOYD (by unanimous consent) submitted the following, which was
                                adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Superintendents of
                                            the Asylums for the education of the Deaf and Dumb and
                                            Blind, are respectfully invited to give exhibitions of
                                            the progress of the pupils under their care, before the
                                            members of this General Assembly ; that the Clerk inform
                                            the said Superintendent of the adoption of this
                                            resolution, and report the time when it will be
                                            convenient for the proposed exhibit to be given. 
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        
                            BOARD OF SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS.
                            Mr. HUNTER, from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                reported back Mr. Smith's of Perry, bill (H. R. 10) establishing a
                                Board of Sinking Fund Commissioners, &c., without amendment,
                                recommending its passage, The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. As that is a very important bill, and as it is
                                doubtful whether the Sinking Fund has now any legal custodian, I
                                move that the bill be considered as engrossed and read the third
                                time now.
                            Mr. DAVIS. The fund is all safe enough.

                            The motion was agreed to, and the bill being again read through by
                                the Clerk, the vote on the question: Shall the bill pass? resulted
                                yeas 87, nays 1. 
                            So the bill passed the third and last reading in the House of
                                Representatives.
                            Mr. STANFIELD submitted the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That no Committee of this
                                            House shall employ a clerk at the expense of the State
                                            without being previously authorized by a resolution of
                                            the House.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. BOYD. What will be done with those already employed? 
                            The resolution was adopted by consent.
                            Mr. JONES submitted the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Judiciary
                                                Committee be instructored to inquire into
                                            the expediency of enacting a law prohibiting Deputy
                                            Auditors from acting as Deputy Treasarers and Deputy
                                            Treasurers form acting as Deputy Auditors, and report by
                                            bill or otherwise. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. FIRESTONE submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Roads inquire into the expediency of
                                            levying one and one-fourth cent on each acre of taxable
                                            land in this State for the use of public roads, and
                                            report by bill or otherwise. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. PROSSER. I hope this resolution willnot be adopted. We are in for
                                taxation on the ad valorem system. There are lands
                                not worth twenty-five cents an acre, that would pay just as much tax
                                as land worth $150 an acre. The resolution was rejected.
                            Mr. HARTLEY submitted the following which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Ways and Means inquire into the expediency
                                            of so changing the assessment law that the tax-payer may
                                            deduct money on hand from his tax account or personal
                                            property. 

                                    
                                
                            


                            
                            Mr.GORDON submitted the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on County
                                            and Township Business be requested to take into
                                            consideration the propriety of reducing the number of
                                            township officers to three trustees - one to act as
                                            treasurer, one as clerk and done as president of the
                                            Board. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. MURRAY submitted the following resolution - remarking that it was
                                one of series he had offered at the extra session. He was informed
                                that the greater portion of resolutions we then offered instructing
                                committees, had never been sent to the committees - the principal
                                clerk having neglected his duties in that case.
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, Resolved, That so much of the
                                            Auditor's report which refers to the present
                                            insufficiency of the Insurance laws, where companies are
                                            doing business in the State, regardless of its
                                            provisions, be referred to the Committee on the
                                                Judiciary,with instructions to inquire
                                            what further legislation upon that subject is necessary,
                                            and report by bill or otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            
                            The resolution was adopted.
                            Mr. TREADWAY submitted the following,which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolution,That the Committee on
                                            Agriculture be instructed to inquire into the expediency
                                            of ordering a thorough geological survey of the State of
                                            Indiana. 


                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. DURHAM introduced a bill (No. 51) to y amend the 3d section of
                                the act containing several provisions, regarding landlords and
                                tenants,lessors and lessees, approved May 1852, which was passed the
                                first reading.
                            Mr. COLLIER, (by unanimous consent,) introduced the following
                                resolution, (No. 4) which was passed the first reading.
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS, It is the duty of the
                                            Legislature at the present session to elect a State
                                            Printer: Therefore,
                                    



                                    
                                        Resolved by the General Assembly of the
                                                State of Indiana, That notice be given, upon
                                            the passage of this joint resolution, that proposals
                                            will be received till the day of January inst., and that
                                            the two Houses will proceed on said day, in joint
                                            convention, to elect the loweset responsible bidder to
                                            said office of State Printer, and that he be required to
                                            furnish the paper and all other matters necessary in the
                                            discharge of his duties as State Printer, at his own
                                            expense, and that he be required to give bond and
                                            approved security for the faithful performance of said
                                            work in a good, substantial and workmanlike manner.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS
                            Mr. WATERMAN introduced a bill (No. 52) to provide for the election
                                and qualification of assessors, and prescribing a part of their
                                duties.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, introduced a bill (No. 53) to amend the 14th
                                section of the act providing for the electon or appointment of
                                Supervisors of highways, and ascertain the duties of county and
                                township officers in relation thereto, approved June 18, 1852. [The
                                bill provides that no person shall be required to work more than two
                                days in each year.]
                             Mr. STANLEY introduced a bill (No. 54) to prohibit clerks and deputy
                                clerks in the Supreme and Circuit Courts, and in the Courts of
                                Common Pleas from prosecuting as attorneys counselers at law, and
                                prescribing penalties against such clerks for refusing to issue
                                writs and summonses.
                            Mr. COLGROVE introduced a bill (No. 55) giving to the clerks of the
                                several Circuit Courts in this State probate jurisdiction, defining
                                their powers and duties there; fixing their compensation therefor,
                                and to prohibit clerks and their deputies from practicing law, and
                                providing penalties therefor; and repealing all laws in conflict
                                with this act.
                            Mr. COLGROVE introduced a bill (No. 56) to repeal the acts
                                establishing Courts of Common Pleas, and defining the jurisdiction
                                and duties of, and providing compensation for, the Judges thereof,
                                approved May 14, 1852.
                            Mr. HARNEY introduced a bill (No. 57) to amend the 74th section of
                                the act defining misdemeanors and prescribing punishments therefor,
                                approved June 17, 1852.
                            Mr. MARTIN introduced a bill (No. 58) to require the Governor to make
                                requisition for the apprehension and delivering up of fugitives from
                                justice.
                            Mr. HARRISON introduced a bill (No. 59) to extend to borrowers from
                                the Sinking Fund, the Surplus Revenue Fund, the College Fund, the
                                Saline Fund, the Congressional School Fund, and other trust funds,
                                time for payment of their loans, and prescribing the duties of
                                officers in relation thereto.
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading. 
                        
                        
                            THE CALENDAR.
                            Mr. Stanfield's bill (5) to authorize school townships, coming up, it
                                was referred to the Committee on
                                Corporations.
                            Mr. Nebeker, of Warren's, bill (6) in relation to county lines,
                                coming up, it was referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.
                            Mr. Shull's bill (7) providing for a conventional interest coming up,
                                it was referred to the same committee.
                            Mr. Ritter's bill (8) to preserve public buildings, coming up, it was
                                referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Jones' bill (9) to establish an independent treasury, coming up - 
                            On motion of Mr. TREADWAY, the rule was suspendedyeas 63, nays 23 and
                                the bill was read the second time by title
                            Mr. JONES moved its reference to a select committee of seven.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY suggested the committee to which the independent
                                treasury portion of the Governor's message had been referred.
                            The SPEAKER. The committee has not been appointed.
                            Mr. JONES acquiesced, and it was so referred.
                            Mr. Cavin's bill (11) to amend section 21 of the act for the
                                organization of County Boards, coming up - 
                            Mr, CAVINS said, it authorized the Commissioners to levy, in their
                                discretion, any amount of tax for payment of county bonds, instead
                                of 25 cents on the $100. 
                            
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Martin's bill (12) to prevent the circulation of unauthorized
                                bank paper, coming up - 
                            Mr. BAIRD proposed to amend by "striking out all that part making it
                                a misdemeanor to issue the paper therein described - leaving it a
                                misdemeanor to fail or refuse to redeem the same on demand." Why
                                should the mere issuing of such paper be a crime? Who is injured by
                                it if the paper is redeemed? Is there any harm done? There are many
                                of these in my district - one has existed for twenty years, and
                                always redeemed. Why should that man be subject to the penalties of
                                this bill?
                            Mr. KEEFER replied - proposing to compel Mr. Watson to bank according
                                to law.
                            Mr. MARTIN and Mr. MURRAY demanded the yeas and nays on the
                                amendment, which being taken, resulted yeas 3, nays 88. So the
                                amendment was lost.
                            Mr. KNOWLTON proposed to amend by adding a clause to the effect,
                                "that all penalties herein prescribed for failing to redeem, shall
                                apply to banks and bankers. ("Consent.")
                            Mr. MARTIN hoped no amendment would be adopted to kill the bill.
                            Mr. DAVIS moved to refer the bill and pending amendment to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            The motion was agreed to. 
                            Mr. Gregory's bill (13) to amend the Constitution so as to confine
                                the voter's qualification to six months' residence, &c., coming
                                up - 
                            On motion by Mr. AUSTIN, it was referred to a select committee of
                                five, which the SPEAKER makes to consist of Messrs. Austin, Gregory,
                                Kempf, Mansfield and Blythe.
                            Mr. Martin's bill (14) to amend the 14th section of the act for the
                                election of Justices of the Peace, coming up - 
                            On motion by Mr. KNOWLTON it was referred to a select committee of
                                three, which the SPEAKER makes to consist of Messrs Knowlton, Martin
                                and Cavens.
                            Mr. Ritter's bill (15) to amend the first and sixth sections of the
                                exemption law, coming up - it was referred to the committee on
                                Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. HALL, of Grant, (by leave) introduced a bill (No. 60) to
                                authorize the County Commissioners of Grant county, to open a
                                settlement with Samuel L. Woolman and grant any relief to the said
                                Woolman, which passed the first reading.
                            On motion by Mr. HALL, (the rules being suspended for the purpose -
                                yeas 66, nays 19,) the bill was read the second time and ordered to
                                be engrossed.
                            Mr. BOYD (by consent) introduced a bill, (No. 61,) to regulate the
                                retailing of intoxicating liquors, to suppress the evils arising
                                therefrom, fixing penalties for the violation of the law, and
                                declaring certain contracts void which was passed the first
                                reading.
                            Mr. DURHAM'S joint resolution, (1) memorializing Congress for an old
                                soldier's pension, coming up - 
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY proposed to amend inserting appropriately the word
                                "indigent,"" so as to read "such indigent soldiers," &c.
                            On motion by Mr. EDWARD'S, the resolution and proposed amendment were
                                referred to the Committee on Military
                                Affairs.
                            Mr. Waterman's joint resolution (2) in relation to agricultural
                                colleges, coming up, was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.
                            Mr. Hunter's joint resolution, relative to the United States Armory
                                at the falls of the Ohio, coming up.
                            Mr. DOBBIN'S suggested a committee to inquire into who were the
                                United States Senators addressed in the resolution.
                            On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, it was referred to the
                                    Committee on Military Affairs.
                            

                        
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION. 
                            Mr. Hamilton, of Boone's, bill (17) to so amend the misdemeanor act
                                of June 14, 1852, as better to protect the bodies of the dead,
                                coming up on the second reading - 
                            On motion by Mr. RITTER, it was referred, to a select committee of
                                five, which the Speaker makes to consist of Messrs. Ritter,
                                Hamilton, of Boone, Firestone, Sullivan and Gifford.
                            Mr. TURPIE'S bill (18) to repeal the Game Law, coming up - 
                            Mr. PARRETT moved to refer it to a select committee of five.
                            Mr. TURPIE objected to the reference of so plain a proposition.
                            Mr. DAVIS understood there was a diversity as to the time when game
                                may be killed, and hoped the bill would not now be put upon its
                                passage. The law had certainly operated to protect quails,
                                &c.
                            Mr. MELLETT had been entrusted with a petition for some modification
                                of the game law, which at the proper time he hoped would be referred
                                to the same committee, who should consider the bill. He also
                                objected to the re-seal of the law.
                            Mr. TURPIE insisted that no modification of the law could be made
                                without destroying ts principle - the most odious - principleof
                                jiving half the fine to the informer.
                            Mr. DAVIS. Why not strike out the objectionable feature?
                            Mr. TURPIE. Because that could not be lone without invalidating the
                                act. I move to ay the amendment on the table, and demand he yeas and
                                nays.
                            Mr. DAVIS. And the bill also.
                            Mr. DOBBINS demanded a division of the question.  The first question being on laying the
                                bill on the table, was determined by yeas 38, nays 5 - as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Black, Bowman, Boxley,
                                            Brotherton, Carr, Claypool, Clayton. Cotton, Davis,
                                            Dougherty, Edwards, Firestone, Fordyce, Gifford,
                                            Gregory, Hancock,Jeffries, Johnston, Keefer, Lawhead,
                                            Major, Mansfield, Mellett, Miller, Murray, Nebeker, of
                                            Vermillion, Nebeker, of Warren. Scott, Sherman, Snyder.
                                            Stanfield, Stiles, Thompson, of Elkhart, Thompson, of
                                            Madison,Treadway,Waterman, and Mr. Speaker 38. 
                                        NAYS Messrs. Austin, Blythe, Boyd,
                                            Cavins. Clark, Clements, Colgrove, Collier, Comstock,
                                            Davidson, Dobbins, Durham. Devol, Early, Griffin, Hall,
                                            of Grant, Hall, of Rush, Hamilton, of Boone, Hamilton,
                                            of Wayne, Harney, Hartley, Hunter, Jones, Jordan, Kelly,
                                            Kempf, Knowlton, Lewis, McLain, Massey, Martin, Nelson,
                                            Newton, Parks, Parrett, Power, Prosser, Ritter,
                                            Robinson, Row, Rynerson, Shields, Shockley, Shull,
                                            Smith, of Miami, Stanley, Sullivan, Summers, Tebbs,
                                            Turpie, Usrey, Wheeler, Whetzel, Wildman and Wood-55.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                             So the House refused to lay the bill on thetable; and the question
                                recurring on laying e motion to commit on the table, was decided by
                                yeas 58, nays 36; so that motion was laid on the table.
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed to commit to the Conmittee on the
                                    Judiciary, with instructions "to inquire into the
                                expediency of repealing at part which relates to giving compensation
                                to the informer." He hoped our game law is not going to be repealed.
                                He objected tounrestrained onslaught on the wild game.
                            Mr. TURPIE felt satisfied that a majority of the House were in favor
                                of the repeal of this law. The present law invited the onslaught
                                deprecated by the gentleman. It was a law also to invite an
                                onslaught by the fancy of the metropolitan saloons upon theme
                                fattened at the expense of the farmer all the game regions of the
                                State. He moved again to lay the motion to commit and the
                                instructions on the table, and again demanded the yeas and nays,
                                which being seconded and and ordered, resulted - yeas 52, nays 41;
                                so the House again refused to commit.
                            Mr. MILLER moyed to recommit to the Judiciary
                                    Committee, with instructions "to end the game law so
                                as to prolong the time ed which prairie chickens may be killed till
                                first of February, also to repeal that part a which gives
                                compensation to the informers."
                            Mr. STILES spoke to this motion, and in be reply to Mr. Turpie.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, proposed to addto the instructions "that the
                                committee change the law so as to permit farmers to kill game on at
                                all times on their own farms," speaking at length against the repeal
                                of the law. 
                            Mr. DOBBINS. Perhaps every man in his county was opposed to this law.
                                He wanted a direct vote.
                            Mr. TURPIE spoke again in reply, and proceed to state that the law
                                was not so objectionable to him as to the mass of the farmers who
                                demanded this repeal. The principle of a game law was as old as
                                feudalism, and could have little applicability to our country,
                                though one might go for one framed on proper principles. He demanded
                                the previous question, and there being a second, the main question
                                was ordered, viz.: The adoption of Mr. Nebeker's amendment to the
                                instructions, the vote resulting yeas 54, nays 36.
                            So the amendment to the instructions was adopted, and the question
                                recurred on commitment with the instructions as amended, the vote
                                resulting - yeas 54, nays 39.
                            So the bill was referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                            Mr. MELLETT (by leave) presented a petition of T. M. Scott and
                                others, for amendment of the game law so as to extend the time for
                                taking quails till February, which was referred to the same
                                committee.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the
                                Superintendent of the Asylum for the Insane, responding to Mr.
                                Smith, of Perry's resolution of the extra session, in regard to
                                expense of patients, &c.
                            On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, it was ordered to lie on the table, and
                                that 500 copies thereof be printed for the use of the House of
                                Representatives.
                            Mr. Mellett's bill (19) to prohibit false entries by trustees,
                                declaring the same a felony, &c., coming up on the second
                                reading, it was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            Mr. Hamilton, of Boone's bill (20) to prevent the carrying of
                                concealed weapons, coming up, it was referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. Scott's bill (21) to provide for voluntary assignments for the
                                benefit of creditors, coming up - 
                            Mr. DAVIS proposed to refer to the Committee on the Judiciary, but
                                did not press the motion.
                            Mr. PARRETT preferred a select committee of five, which prevailed,
                                and it was referred to a committee, which the Speaker makes to
                                consist of Messrs. Parrett, Mellett, Scott, Colgrove and
                                Griffin.
                            Mr. Nebeker, of Warren's bill (22) for a conventional interest,
                                coming up, it was referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.
                            The House then (at 4 o'clock) adjourned.
                        

                    



                    
                        IN SENATE
                        
                            
                                THURSDAY, JANUARY 13, 1859.
                            
                        
                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate a
                            communication from M. G. Bright and J. P. Drake, Esq's., offering to
                            liquidate by transfer of real estate, the claim of the State against
                            Colonel Allen May, whose securities they were.
                        Mr. SLACK moved its reference to the Committee on
                                Finance.
                        Mr. WEIR said this subject has been before the Committee on Finance and
                            afterwards it had been referred to the Judiciary Committee ; he
                            therefore moved to amend the motion by referring it to a select
                            committee of three.
                        Mr. HEFFREN thought we had nothing to do with Messrs. May, Bright and Drake; we should hold Dr. Noffsinger
                            responsible, because he, as the financial officer of the State, loaned
                            this money unlawfully.
                        Mr. STEELE said that the Senator from Washington, [Mr. Heffren,] takes
                            strange views of this matter; and therefore proceeded to defend Dr.
                            Noffsinger from any imputations that may be cast upon him.
                        Mr. TARKINGTON could not see why the Legislature should proceed against
                            these sureties, but thought it proper that the Treasurer himself should
                            be held responsible for the amount.
                        Mr. LINE moved to amend the amendment by adding the following: "with
                            instructions to investigate all the facts in the case, and present to
                            this Senate a detailed statement of such facts at as early a day as
                            practicable."
                        Mr. WEIR accepted the amendment.
                        Mr. TARKINGTON moved to lay the whole matter upon the table.The motion
                            was rejected by yeas 18, nays 31.
                        The motion of the Senator from Huntington, [Mr. Slack,] was lost, upon a
                            division, by the vote of the PRESIDENT pro tem.
                        Mr. CONNER offered an amendment to the motion to refer, as follows: 
                        
                            
                                
                                    Resolved,That the Committee on the
                                            Judiciary, to whom was referred the resolution
                                        and instructions in reference to the protested drafts of
                                        Messrs. Bright and May, be further instructed to inquire
                                        into the legality and expediency of not only instituting
                                        suit against the said Bright and May, and others, their
                                        securites, but also against William R. Noffsinger, late
                                        Treasurer of State, and his securities, in order that the
                                        State may recover the amount due on account of that
                                        transaction as speedily as possible. 
                                
                            
                        

                        Mr. WIER moved to lay on the table.
                        The motion was lost.
                        Mr. HEFFREN moved the following as additional instructions to the
                            amendment:

                        Instruct committee to report a joint resolution directing the Attorney
                            General to bring suit upon the official bond of William R. Noffsinger,
                            for the amount of the bills of exchange endorsed by Bright and Drake. 

                        Mr. SLACK moved the following as further instructions:
                        Add to the amendment the following: 

                        And that they examine into any other amounts for which he may be liable
                            as a former Treasurer of State; and also, inquire as to the liability
                            and defalcation of any other former Treasurer of State. 

                        Mr. HEFFREN accepted the amendment.
                        Mr. TARKINGTON offered additional instructions as follows: 

                        That the committee report a bill (if necessary) making it the duty of the
                            Attorney General to commence suit against all persons from whom money is
                            due to the Treasury of State, as officers or otherwise. 


                         Mr. ANTHONY moved to lay on the table all instructions subsequent to
                            those offered by the Senator from Wabash, [Mr. Conner.]
                        Mr. TARKINGTON called for a division of the question.
                        Mr. ANTHONY withdrew his motion.
                        The question being upon the adoption of the amendment proposed by the
                            Senator from Wabash [Mr. Conner] with the pending instructions,Mr.
                            TARKINGTON demanded a division of the question.
                        The question being upon the reference the matter to the Judiciary
                            Committee, it was so referred.
                        The instructions proposed by the Senate from Washington [Mr. Heffren]
                            coming up,
                        Mr. WAGNER moved that they be laid on the table.
                        The motion was agreed to, by yeas 28, nays 22.
                        The instructions proposed by the Senator from Brown [Mr. Tarkington] were
                            adopted.
                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate the
                            biennial report of the State Bank, of Indiana.
                        Mr. SLACK moved that it lay on the table and 500 copies be printed.
                         The motion was agreed to

                        

                             NEWSPAPERS AND REPORTING. 
                            Mr. TARKINGTON obtained leave to make a report from the select
                                committee appointed to ascertain on what terms a report of the
                                proceedings of the Senate could be published in the same manner and
                                as fully as they were published in the Legislative Sentinel of the
                                last session.
                            The committee reported several propositions, and recommended the
                                adoption of the following: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper procure
                                            three copies each of the Daily
                                                Sentinel and Daily Journal,
                                            two enveloped and stamped, and one copy of each loose,
                                            as per agreement. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. WALLACE said he had authority to say that the Citizen office
                                would print the reports, as they may be furnished by an official
                                Reporter, for about one-half those rates.
                            Mr. GREEN submitted a supplemental report, recommending a
                                subscription to the Weekly American,
                                Volksblatt and Free Presse,
                                three copies eachtwo of the American and all of the German papers
                                stamped.
                            Mr. GOODING saw no reason why the Citizen should not have the job, if
                                it would do it for half price.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to recommit, with instructions to contract with
                                the proprietors of the daily papers of this city for four hundred
                                copies of their daily papers, to be taken daily by the Senate,
                                provided they will publish as full proceedings as the Daily State Sentinel did at the extra session, provided
                                the same can be had at the same rates they furnished them at the
                                extra session.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. WILLIAMS said he was opposed to taking papers unless we had the
                                proceedings of this body published something near as full as we had
                                last session in the Legislative Sentinel, and in
                                order to enable the printers to keep a competent reporter upon this
                                floor, he had submitted his proposition to take eight copies of the
                                daily paper publishing full reports. 

                        
                        
                    
                    
                
                
                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 25 1859.
                        No. 3.
                    
                    
                        

                             Mr. WALLACE said that he had been handed a proposition from the
                                Citizen office, but he saw nothing to be gained by their proposal.
                                He was satisfied that each Senator is so desirous of having the
                                Legislative Sentinel that they would pay for it out of their own
                                pockets, should the Senate refuse to subscribe for it.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to lay the whole matter on the table, to enable a
                                resolution to be introduced covering the whole matter, and settling
                                the question at once.
                            The resolution was agreed to.
                            Mr. HAMILTON obtained leave to introduce the following resolution,
                                which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Printing inquire into the expediency of
                                            reducing the price paid for the printing of the Journals
                                            of the Legislature, the Laws of the State, and such
                                            other printing as is necessary for the State of Indiana,
                                            for which the State pays, of every kind, and to report
                                            by bill or otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. GREEN, from the Select Committee to which was referred his bill
                                (S. 3) enlarging the Seventh Judicial Circuit, by adding to the same
                                the counties of Hancock, Madison, Hamilton, Tipton and Howard, and
                                fixing the time of holding Circuit Courts therein, reported the same
                                back with sundry amendments.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill read the second time by its
                                title.
                            On motion of Mr. MURRAY, the bill was considered as engrossed, read
                                through the third time and finally passed the Senateyeas 47, nays
                                2.
                            The PRESIDENT, pro tempore, laid before the Senate
                                the annual report from the Trustees of the Wabash and Erie
                                Canal.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved that it be laid on the table, and 200 copies
                                printed.
                            The motion was rejected, after two votes, by yeas and nays - the
                                second resulting - yeas 19, nays 30.
                            The report was then read.
                            Mr. WALLACE moved its reference to the Committee on Canals
                                    and Internal Improvements, and that 500 copies be
                                printed.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            On motion by Mr. WALLACE, Senators Hamilton, Conner, Carnahan and
                                McLain were added to the Committee on Canals and Internal
                                Improvements.
                            On Mr. WEIR'S motion, Mr. Murray was also added to the same
                                committee.
                            Mr. TURNER offered a resolution that the Senate subscribe for three
                                copies each of the Daily Journal, Sentinel,Citizen, weekly American,
                                Volksblatt and Frie Presse, two
                                of the English and all the German papers to be enveloped and
                                stamped.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON moved to strike out all papers except the Sentinel and Journal.
                            Mr. MARCH offered the following as an amendment.


                            Providing that each daily paper publish full reports of the
                                proceedings of this body.

                            Mr. TURNER accepted the amendment, and moved the previous
                                question.
                            There being a second, under its operation the amendment of the
                                Senator from Putnam [Mr. Johnston] was rejected - yeas 23, nays
                                26and the original resolution, as amended by the Senator from
                                Delaware [Mr. March] was adopted by yeas 27, nays 23.
                             Mr. GOODING offered the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        ResolvedThat the Senate will, the House
                                            of Representatives concurring therein, proceed, in the
                                            Hall of the House ot Representatives, at 10 o'clock, A.
                                            M.,on to-morrow, to elect by joint viva
                                                voce vote, a State Agent, a Canal Trustee, a
                                            State Librarian, and Trustees for the Insane, Blind, and
                                            Deaf and Dumb Asylums, according to law. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             Upon Mr. TARKINGTON'S motion the resolution was laid on the table by
                                yeas 32, nays 17.
                            A message was received from the House of Representatives announcing
                                the passage by that body of a joint resolution (H. R. 5) instructing
                                our legally elected Senators and requesting our Representatives to
                                vote for a law giving to each settler on the public lands 160
                                acres.
                            Also, a joint resolution (H. R. 6) authorizing a number of German
                                books to be delivered to township libraries where the number of
                                German voters justify it.
                            Mr. HEFFREN offered the following resolution, which was adopted by
                                consent: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved That the Committee
                                                on the Judiciary be instructed to inquire
                                            into and report to the Senate whether under the
                                            provisions of the Constitution a Senator elected to fill
                                            a vacancy occasioned by resignation, or otherwise, shall
                                            hold his office for the unexpired term, or for the full
                                            term of four years. 
                                    

                                
                            
                            Mr. BEESON offered a preamble and resolution that on the 19th inst.,
                                the Senate repair to the Hall of the House of Representatives, to
                                receive and hear petitions from women of the State, praying for
                                legislation in their behalf. He sustained his resolution in a few
                                remarks.
                            The resolution was adopted.
                            And then the Senate adjourned.

                            

                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            Thursday, January 12, 1859 
                        
                        
                            HIGH PRESSURE, CONFISCATION AND DESTRUCTION. 
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House the petition of sundry citizens of
                                the counties of Marion and Hancock, praying for a liquor law on the
                                "high pressure, confiscation and destruction principle," which was
                                being read, when - 
                             Mr. KNOWLTON moved that the further reading be dispensed with - 
                            Mr. FIRESTONE moved to refer to the Committee on Military
                                    Affairs.
                            Mr. SCOTT moved that it be tabled, as its terms were disrespectful to
                                the House of Representatives.
                            Mr. PROSSER proposed to amend by substituting a motion to reject.
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON said he had had no time to read the petition
                                having received it from one of the most intelligent citizens of the
                                State, who assured him it was from the people of Hancock and Marion.
                                They may have used indecorous language, but certainly no insult
                                could have been intended. I know them - many of them - to be as good
                                men as there are in the State. It might not appear so offensive if
                                it were read well, instead of the slow and faulty manner in which it
                                was begun. I ask that it may take the usual course. I ask it on the
                                part of the signers of the paper whom I know.
                            A lengthy debate here ensued upon the reference of the petition which
                                occupied nearly the entire morning session. The discussion involved
                                the right of petition, prohibitory laws, the license system,
                                &c., &c.
                            The SPEAKER decided the motion to reject to be out of order.
                            Mr. KNOWLTON demanded a division of the questionthe first question
                                being: Shall the petition be received; was decided by yeas 80, nays
                                16 - Messrs. Keefer, Merrifield, Sullivan and others voting in the
                                negative, because the paper was considered unfit to be read. Pending
                                the next question: Shall the petition be referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance ? 
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY moved to lay the motion and the petition on the table,
                                and the vote resultedyeas 36, nays 62, so the latter motion was
                                rejected.
                            Mr. BAIRD made an ineffectual motion to refer to a select committee
                                of three.The petition was then referred to the Committee on
                                    Temperance.Mr. DAVIS presented the petition of Jared
                                O. Jocelyn, praying for compensation for services, which was
                                referred to the Committee on Fees and Salaries
                                .

                        
                        
                             THE EDWARDS AND FIRESTONE CONTEST. 
                            Mr. STANFIELD, in conformity with an order of the House, at the extra
                                session, submitted the following report:
                            MR. SPEAKER :In obedience to the resolution of this House at its
                                special session, I proceeded to Huntington to take the deposition of
                                witnesses in the case mentioned in second resolution. Finding that a
                                full investigation had been had of all the facts in controversy
                                arising in said election in a contest of the seat of a County
                                Commissioner elected at that election, which had been reduced to
                                writing, and eould, by an agreement between the parties, be made
                                applicable as evidence in this cause, I procured such an agreement
                                to be made; and I herewith lay befere the House the evidence taken
                                in pursuance of it, and also the poll books and tally papers of said
                                election in Huntington township, which may be valuable in showing
                                the truth of the fact in controversy. All of which is respectfully
                                submitted.
                            THOS. S. STANFIELD.
                            The report was received and referred to the  Committee on
                                    Elections.
                            Mr. DURHAM (by consent) presented the petition of Thomas Johnson,
                                which was referred to the Committee on
                                Claims.
                            Mr. KNOWLTON, from a majority of the select committee to which was
                                referred Mr. Martin's bill (H. R. 14) to amend the 14th section of
                                the Justices act, reported the same back, with an amendment,
                                inserting appropriately, "or where a defendant or defendants has or
                                have promised in writing to discharge any debt or contract in a
                                township, suit may be commenced either in the township where said
                                defendant promised to discharge the same, or where either of the
                                defendants reside;" and so amended they recommend the passage of the
                                bill.
                            Mr. MARTIN opposed the adoption of the amendment.
                            Mr. KNOWLTON explained it.
                            Mr. LAWHEAD opposed it from the fact that three-fourths of the
                                promissory notes were made at the county seat.
                            Mr. CAVINS. The bill provides that the assignors of the note shall
                                not be made parties to it. We propose to make an additional
                                amendment: that where a man has promised to pay a note at a
                                particular place, it shall be collectable there, or where he
                                resides.
                            Mr. MURRAY. The effect of the amendment would be to compel their
                                creditors to sign notes collectable at the county seats. It would
                                break up the business of the Justices of the Peace in rural
                                townships. The proposed change would increase costs in the mileage
                                of constables. Should not we legislate for the benefit of the people
                                at large, rather than those petty office-holders?
                            Mr. LAWHEAD. The adoption of this amendment would create a necessity
                                for drawing notes, waiving its force.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, also approved the amendment. 
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a report from the Trustees of the
                                Wabash and Erie Canal.
                            On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, it was laid on the table, and 500 copies
                                thereof be printed for the use of the House of Representatives. 
                            
                            
                                CONGRESSIONAL HOMESTEAD.
                                Mr. STILES asked and obtained leave to introduce a joint
                                    resolution (No. 5) viz.: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved,That our legally elected
                                                Senators and Representatives in Congress be
                                                requested to take such action as may be necessary to
                                                give to each of the actual settlers on public lands
                                                a homestead of one hundred and sixty acres. 
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Whereupon - 
                                The SPEAKER, ruling that a joint resolution is not a law and does
                                    not require three readings, ordered the yeas and nays, which
                                    being taken, resulted - yeas 77, nays 1.
                                So the joint resolution was adopted on the part of the House of
                                    Representatives.
                            

                            
                                GERMAN BOOKS.
                                Mr. KEMPF, (by unanimous consent,) submitted a joint resolution
                                    (No. 6) authorizing the addition of a number of books to any
                                    township library, where the number of German voters in such
                                    township will justify so doing [in the opinion of the State
                                    Board of Education.]
                                The yeas and nays being taken thereon, under the constitutional
                                    provision, the result was yeas 77, nays 8.
                                Mr. KNOWLTON, (by leave,) explained. He understood the resolution
                                    to include a distribution of all the books by law required to be
                                    distributed. He could go for distributing in the German language
                                    books on Government, Agriculture, Commerce and the Mechanic
                                    Arts, but no farther.
                                Mr. KEMPF. The terms of the resolution were so restricted.
                                So the joint resolution was adopted.
                                Mr. SHULL asked and obtained leave to submit a joint resolution
                                    (No. 7) expressive of the sense of the General Assembly with
                                    reference to the distribution of the Common School Fund, [that
                                    said distribution among the counties be in proportion to the
                                    number of children entitled thereto.]
                                Mr. DOUGHERTY moved to refer to the Committee on
                                        Education.
                                Mr. BOYD preferred a vote of the House on this resolution. In
                                    this way, the Committee on Education would be guided in their
                                    action.
                                Mr. PARKS spoke against the constitutionality of the Senate bill
                                    on this subject.
                                Mr. MANSFIELD. This subject has been before the Committee on
                                    Education. If the matter was to be decided By this vote, he
                                    would be in favor of sending it first to some committee.
                                Mr. KEEFER should vote to lay the resolution on the table. He was
                                    in favor of each county collecting and appropriating its own
                                    school tax.
                                Mr. SHULL. There was diversity of opinion as to the distribution
                                    of this fund. He was satisfied that the northern portion of the
                                    State would be loser by any change of the present law of
                                    distribution. He desired an expression on the subject by both
                                    Houses of the General Assembly.
                                Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, moved to lay the motion and joint
                                    resolution on the table.
                                The motion was agreed to.
                                The SPEAKER announced the following additional members of the
                                    Committee on Judiciary: Messrs. Parrett, Scott and Stiles.The
                                    House now resumed the consideration of the committee's amendment
                                    to Mr. Martin's bill. (H. R. 14.)
                                On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the amendment was laid on the table.
                                The bill was again read through.
                                Mr. CLEMENTS proposed to amend by adding a section.
                                
                                    "SEC. - Nothing herein contained shall
                                        prevent the collection of debts in townships where the same
                                        shall have been contracted."
                                
                                Mr. MURRAY moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                                Which was agreed to - affirmative 44, negative 20.
                                Mr. BROTHERTON moved to refer the bill to the Committee
                                        on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, moved to instruct the committee to strike
                                    out the exception in the proviso.
                                Mr. MARTIN explained the abuse which had grown up under the
                                    present law.
                                Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, said it was wrong to impose upon one a
                                    responsibility that belongs alike to all the parties
                                    defendant.The House refused to recommit, and the question
                                    recurred on engrossment.
                                On motion by Mr. MURRAY, it was referred to the
                                        Judiciary Committee without alterations.
                                
                            

                            
                                RESOLUTIONS.
                                Mr. HARNEY submitted the following, which was adopted: 

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved,That this Hall be tendered
                                                for the use of the State Temperance Convention, on
                                                Monday evening, the l7th, and on Tuesday the 18th
                                                inst., to transact their business and hold their
                                                meetings.
                                        
                                    
                                

                                Mr. DOBBINS submitted the following:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Rights and
                                                  Privileges to whom was referred the bill
                                                (No. 7) providing for ten per cent, interest on
                                                contract be instructed to report an amendment
                                                thereto prohibiting all banks from a greater rate of
                                                interest on notes, bills of exchange, &c., per
                                                annum, than that which is allowed in said bill to
                                                individuals on moneys loaned, with proper penalties
                                                and restrictions. 
                                        
                                    
                                

                                Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, moved to make it a resolution of
                                    inquiry.
                                Which was agreed to, and, as thus amended, the resolution was
                                    adopted.
                                Mr. MURRAY submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on the Judiciary be
                                                instructed to inquire into the power and expediency
                                                of providing, by law, for setting apart a sufficient
                                                portion of the funds arising from the State's
                                                interest in the State Bank, and distributing the
                                                residue immediately among the several counties of
                                                the State, in just proportions, to be loaned upon
                                                mortgaged security for the benefit of common
                                                schools. 
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. SUMMERS submitted the following: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved,That the
                                                  Committee on County and Township
                                                  Business be requested to inquire into
                                                the expediency of so amending section 18 of the Act
                                                of May 6, 1852. that the Trustees shall annually, on
                                                the third Monday in March of each year, settle and
                                                audit the accounts of the Treasurers and Supervisors
                                                of roads in their respective townships, instead of
                                                February, as now provided by law. 
                                        
                                    
                                

                                

                                Other resolutions were submitted as follows:

                                By Mr. SULLIVAN, referring that portion of the Governor's Message
                                    which refers to banks and bank laws, to a committee of one from
                                    each Congressional District.



                                By Mr. COLLIER, excusing Mr. Dougherty and appointing Mr. Parks a
                                    member of the Committee on Education.


                                By Mr. SNYDER, instructing the Committee on Fees and
                                        Salaries, to inquire into the propriety of so
                                    amending the law as to attain uniformity in fees and allowances
                                    made to County Auditors; to provide a fee for transferring the
                                    lands described in each deed instead of as now giving a fee for
                                    each description contained in a deed; to provide for a cross
                                    index to be made by the County Recorder, and making it a part of
                                    the Recorder's duty to continue and keep up the same without
                                    charge of allowances.

                                By Mr. DOBBINS, that Mr. Eastham be excused and Mr. Firestone
                                    appointed as a member of the Committee on Military
                                        Affairs.

                                By Mr. JORDON, instructing the Judiciary
                                        Committee to inquire whether the circulation of
                                    bank bills of a less denomination than five dollars issued by
                                    banks in this State can be prohibited by law.

                                By Mr. WATERMAN, instructing the Fees and Salaries
                                        Committee to inquire into the propriety of so
                                    amending the law regulating fees and salaries as to allow County
                                    officers stated annual salaries, with authority given to Boards
                                    doing County Business to allow said officers for clerk hire in
                                    counties where justice requires it.


                                By Mr. JOHNSON, directing the Judiciary
                                        Committee to inquire into the expediency of
                                    abolishing the present mode of selecting jurors of the Circuit
                                    and Common Pleas Courts and providing a cheaper system.


                                By Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, referring so much of the Auditor's
                                    report as relates to the insurance laws to the
                                        Committee on Corporations.

                                By Mr. WILDMAN, instructing the Judiciary
                                        Committee to inquire into the expediency of so
                                    amending the law as to allow parties to swear to their book
                                    accounts.

                            




                            
                                JOINT RESOLUTIONS.

                                 By Mr. SMITH, of Perry, accompanying a memorial from the State
                                    Board of Agriculture, on the subject of a geological survey of
                                    the State. The memorial was referred to the Committee
                                        on Agriculture, and it was ordered to be
                                    subsequently returned and referrred to a select committee of
                                    sixteen - nine on the part of the House and seven on the part of
                                    the Senate - one to be selected from each Agricultural District
                                    of the State. 

                                By Mr. SHERMAN, on the subject of an appropriation by the Federal
                                    Government for the improvement of the harbor at Michigan City. 

                                By Mr. MURRAY, on the subject of the admission of Oregon and
                                    Kansas into the Union. 

                            


                            
                                BILLS INTRODUCED.

                                By Mr. BOYD, amendatory of the act providing for the election and
                                    prescribing certain of the duties of Recorders, approved May 31.
                                    1852.

                                By Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, to regulate and restrain the sale of
                                    spirituous and intoxicating liquors to prevent and punish
                                    drunkenness and crime.

                                By Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, to prevent the killing or destruction
                                    of wild game repealing laws conflicting therewith.

                                By Mr. STANFIELD, to amend section 4 of the act concerning
                                    interest on money, approved May 27, 1852, so as to allow the
                                    recovery of principal and interest.

                                By Mr. EDWARDS, to regulate the business of Insurance Companies,
                                    incorporated by the State of Indianato punish violations of its
                                    provisions and to repeal former enactments in regard to such
                                    companies.

                                Which were severally passed the first reading.

                                 The House adjourned. 
                            
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE
                        
                            FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1859.
                        

                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate a
                            communication from the Superintendent of the Indiana Hospital for the
                            Insane, in compliance with a resolution of the Senate, respecting the
                            pay in mileage and per diem of each Trustee for the years 1854, 1855,
                            1856, 1857 and 1858, &c.
                        Mr. CULVER presented the petition of a large number of voters of the
                            county of Tippecanoe, praying for the passage of a law raising the rate
                            of interest to 10 per centum, which was referred to the
                                Committee on Finance. Also, a petition from the
                            same county, asking for a law making railroad companies liable for stock
                            killed where said roads can not be fenced, which was referred to the
                                Committee on Corporations.
                        Mr. HARGROVE presented a petition from sundry citizens of the county of
                            Gibson on the subject of temperance, which was referred to the
                                Committee on Temperance.
                        Mr. ODELL presented the petition of Henry M. Wright, praying an allowance
                            for pursuing and arresting a murderer, which was referred to the
                                Committee on Claims.
                        Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee, to whom was
                            referred the bill (II. R. 10) establishing a Board of Sinking Fund
                            Commissioners, recommending its adoption with the following
                            amendments:
                        Strike out the provision relating to the employment of assistants, and
                            add that the salary of the President shall not exceed $1,500, and the
                            Clerk $ 1,000.
                        Mr. SLACK made a minority report from the same committee, recommending - 
                        
                        That all that part of the bill giving to the Board the power of fixing
                            the salary of President, be stricken out, and that the amount be fixed
                            at $500 per annum.
                        On Mr. MURRAY'S motion, the minority report was tabled - yeas 37, nays
                            11.
                        Mr. HARGROVE moved to concur and amend by striking out $1,500 and
                            inserting $1,000.
                        Mr. SLACK moved that it be $800.
                        On Mr. STUDABAKER'S motion, the amendments were laid on the table - yeas
                            34, nays 14.
                        Mr. SLACK moved to strike out $1,500 and insert $900.
                        Mr. MURRAY moved the previous question, and there being a second, under
                            its operation the amendment was lost - yeas 11, nays 88 - and the report
                            was concurred in, by yeas 35, hays 14.
                        On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, the bill was considered as engrossed and
                            read a third time.
                        Mr. LINE moved to recommit to a select committee of five, with
                            instructions to strike out $1,500 and insert $1,250.
                        On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, this motion was tabled - yeas 31, nays
                            17.
                        Mr. SLACK moved to recommit to a committee of five, with instructions to
                            limit the salary of President to $1,100.
                        Mr. HEFEREN demanded the previous question.
                        There being a second, under its operation, the motion to recommit was
                            rejectedyeas 15, nays 31and the bill finally passed the Senate, by yeas
                            36, nays 12.
                        Mr. SLACK made a motion to take up his resolution, giving the journal of
                            the last session of the Senate into the hands of the State Printer,
                            which was rejected by yeas 21, nays 25.
                        Mr. WALLACE submitted a resolution to the same effect, which - 
                        On Mr. MURRAY'S motion, was laid on the table - yeas 27, nays 22.
                        Mr. WAGNER offered a resolution that the Senate will, the House
                            concurring therein, proceed to the Hall of the House this day at
                            half-past two o'clock, for the purpose of electing three Directors of
                            the State Prison, Librarian, Trustee of the Wabash and Erie Canal, State
                            Printer and Agent of State, in the order as above stated.
                        Mr. STUDABAKER made an ineffectual motion to lay it on the table - yeas
                            19, nays 30.
                        Mr. MURRAY moved the previous question; there being a second, under its
                            operation the main question was ordered - yeas 26, nays 24 and the
                            resolution was not adopted - yeas 25, nays 25.
                        Mr. CONLEY offered a resolution which was adopted, that the
                                Committee on Organization of the Courts inquire
                            into the expediency of abolishing the Court of Common Pleas and
                            establishing a surrogate system for the settlement of estates of
                            decedants, and report a bill to that effect.
                        Mr. HAMILTON offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                Committee on Finance inquire into the expediency
                            of prohibiting all officers of the State holding public moneys from
                            loaning the same, and also providing by law where the public funds shall
                            be deposited.
                        On motion by Mr. GREEN a concurrent resolution was adopted, appointing a
                            joint committee of two in the Senate and three in the House, to inquire
                            into and make a full investigation of the alleged swamp land frauds.
                        Mr. COOPER offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the Committee on
                            the State Prison inquire into the expediency of erecting a House of
                            Refuge as contemplated by the Constitution, section 2, article 9.
                        Mr. JONES offered a resolution, the same as Mr. Wagner's, which is
                            recited above.
                        Mr. TARKINGTON made an ineffectual motion to lay it on the tableyeas 23,
                            nays 27.
                        Mr. WAGNER moved the previous question.
                        There being a second, under its operation the resolution was passed -
                            yeas 27, nays 22. 


                        
                            BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS
                             Mr. BENNETT offerered the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door keeper be
                                            directed to contrat with A. E.Drapier & Son, for six
                                            hundred copies of the "Brevier Legislative Reports," of
                                            the proceedings and debates of the present General
                                            Assembly, after the style [?] their reports in the
                                            "Legislative Sentinel"said reports [?] be made up from
                                            the columns of some daily newspapers printed in the town
                                            of Indianapolis and laid upon the desks of members as
                                            fast as they shall complete sixteen pages in double
                                            newspaper column; provided the cost I the same shall not
                                            exceed one dollar per copythe House adopting a similar
                                            resolution. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             The yeas and nays were demanded, and being ordered and taken,
                                resulted - yeas 29, nays 19 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS- Messrs. Anthony, Bennet, Brown,
                                            Cobb, Connelly, Cravens of Jefferson, Fisk, Gooding,
                                            Hamilton, Heffren, Line, Lomax, McClure, McLean, March,
                                            Miller, Murray, O'Brien, Rice, Shoemaker, Slack, Steele,
                                            Stevens, Studabaker, Tarkington, Turner, Wallace,
                                            Weir,Williams - 29. 
                                        NAYS - Messrs.Beeson, Blair, Bobbs,
                                            Carnahan, Conn[?], Cooper, Craven of Madison, Culver,
                                            Green, Hargro[?], Hendry, Hill, Johnston, Jones, Kinley,
                                            Odell, Robins, Thompson, Wilson - 19.
                                    
                                
                            
                             So the resolution was adopted.,
                             [A message from the House of Represenatives announced the
                                concurrence of that bo in the memorial to the Senate of the United
                                States in relation to the seats of Mess[?] Lane and McCarty.,
                             Also, the concurrance of the House in Senate amendments to the bill
                                (H. R. 10), establishing a Board of Sinking Fund Commissioners.]
                            
                        
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             On Mr. WEIR'S motion, the special order being the consideration of
                                the Governor's  Message was
                                postponed until Monday two o'clock, P. M.
                            On motion by Mr. CONNELLY, the Committee on Banks
                                were directed to inquire into the expediency of so amending the
                                Bank, law as to prohibit the circulation of bills of the Banks of
                                other States of a less denomination than $5.
                            Mr. WEIR offered a resolution directing the Committee on
                                    Agriculture to inquire into the expediency of
                                authorizing County Commissioners to purchase and held lands for the
                                use of county agricultural societies.
                            Mr. BROWN moved, as an amendment, that the Committee on
                                    County and Township Business, inquire into the
                                expediency of allowing County Commissioners to purchase sufficient
                                grounds for county fairs.
                            On motion by Mr. WALLACE, they were preferred to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture.
                            On motion of Mr. WALLACE, it was - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That a special committee of
                                            three be appointed to prepare and submit to the Senate a
                                            bill denning he duties of the Commissioners and
                                            President of the Sinking Fund. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. WILSON introduced a resolution that in the opinion of the Senate,
                                any law restricting and regulating the sale of spirituous and
                                intoxicating liquors ought to contain a [?]ay license clause.
                            Mr. GOODING was in favor of the resolution.
                            Mr. SLACK wanted to put every thing upon tie same level. If liquor is
                                to be sold let it put upon the same terms as any thing else hat is
                                sold.
                            Mr. HENDRY opposed the resolution because if it passed it would fail
                                of the object [?] view - it would not be an expression of the
                                opinion of the Senate, because the amount of money for the license
                                is not fixed.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN was in favor of a pay liscense system, and did not
                                believe a law uponany other plan would effect any thing.
                            Mr. HAMILTON moved to amend by issuing licenses for not less than $25
                                nor more than $200, at the option of the County Commissioners.
                            Mr. WEIR was opposed to their being any money attached to the license
                                system, but if their must be, he was in favor of some low figure
                                [?]th good freehold sureties.
                            Mr. GREEN moved that it be not less than [?]0 nor more than
                                $5000.
                            Mr. HAMILTON accepted.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to amend by adding: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        "Also, to prohibit all but pure liquors from being sold
                                            making it a misdemeanor to sell any impure, drugged
                                            mixed liquors." 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. WAGNER, could vote for no law that [?] not license for $50.
                            [?] message from the House of Representatives announced the
                                concurrence of that body the Senate's resolution to go into the
                                election of State officers, and inviting the Senate to the Hall for
                                that purpose.
                            Mr. WAGNER having the floor, moved that the Senate repair to the Hall
                                of the House instanter, but withdrew it for
                            Mr. WALLACE, who demanded a call of the Senate.
                            The call was had and every Senator reported as present.
                            Mr. WAGNER renewed his motion, which was agreed to, and Senators
                                preceded by the PRESIDENT pro tempore, vacated the
                                Chamber.
                            When Senators returned -
                            The Senate adjourned. 
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                        
                            
                                FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1859.
                            
                        
                         The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Auditor of
                            State, responding to Mr. Davis' resolution, of the llth inst., embracing
                            statements of the amount due from Hiram E. Talbott, at the time of his
                            retirement from the Auditor's office, and the amount which has been
                            collected of him; also, the amount which has been received by the
                            Auditor of State from all sources during the present term, the amount by
                            him paid out, the balance on hand, and where deposited, which was read,
                            and on the motion of Mr. Davis referred to the Committee on
                                Ways and Means.
                        On motion of Mr. HUNTER, the Senate amendments to Mr. Smith's, of Perry,
                            bill (H. R. 10) were taken up, viz: Strike out from section 7, all that
                            relates to the employment of assistants, and adding to the 9th section,
                            "nor shall the salary of the President exceed $1,500 a year, and the
                            Clerk $1,000 a year; and amending the title accordingly;" and they were
                            concurred in as a whole, without a division.
                        Mr. FIRESTONE presented the petition of C. W. Hughes and others, for a
                            law to regulate the exhibition of stallions, which was referred to the
                                 Committee on Agriculture.

                        
                             THE LANE AND M'CARTY MEMORIAL.
                            On motion of Mr. MURRAY, this memorial, communicated from the Senate
                                as having been adopted by that body in the name of the people of the
                                State of Indiana, rehearsing at length the history and the
                                Republican view of the election of Senators Bright and Fitch, and
                                memorializing the Senate of the United States against the legality
                                of the seats of Messrs. Bright and Fitch, and in favor of the
                                alleged election and claim preferred to their places by Messrs.
                                Henry S. Lane and William M. M'Carty, and entrusted by resolution to
                                the Vice President of the United States, was taken up, and the same
                                having been read through by the Clerk - 
                            Mr. DAVIS said: Mr. Speaker, I do not propose to discuss this
                                question now, or to reply to or review the memorial. I had the
                                privilege and the honor, when this question of the election, or the
                                pretended election, of United States Senators was pending in ; the
                                extra session, of presenting in brief, the views I then entertained;
                                and I wish now merely to say, in addition to the remarks I then sub-
                                     submitted, that I have the
                                gratification of knowing that the view then taken of this question,
                                by the gentleman from Vanderburg and Posey, and myself, has been
                                sustained by the voice of at least one of the greatest men of the
                                ageone who, like the gentleman from Vanderburg and I, is himself " a
                                fossil " of the great Whig party - I mean the Honorable John J.
                                Crittenden, of Kentucky. He looks upon this question as a settled
                                judicial question - a question that is judicially closed, and cannot
                                be opened by any action of ours; a question that can not now be
                                placed in a position in which the memorial seeks to place it.
                                Further I am gratified to learn that the venerable Joseph Gales,
                                editor of the  National Intelligencer - a paper
                                standing in the same relation to other papers that the Bible
                                sustains to other books sustains the same view. I am also further
                                advised that William Pitt Fessenden, a Senator from the State of
                                Maine, entertains the same viewand no one questions his
                                Republicanism. I am further advised - and you, Mr. Speaker, know the
                                fact - that Senator Collamer, of Vermont, a sound lawyer and
                                statesman, entertains precisely the same view which has been
                                declared on this floor by the gentleman from Vanderburg and Posey,
                                and myself. Again, sir, I am advised that the great wheel-horse of
                                Republicanism in the State of Ohio, Mr. Wade, looks upon this as a
                                settled question. I have been told also, that Senator Bell, of
                                Tennessee, a sound lawyer, and one of the most accomplished
                                statesmen of the day, entertains the same view.
                            It may be that the gentleman from Vanderburg and myself are wrong,
                                but certain it is, if we are wrong, we are in very good company. And
                                is it not strange, Mr. Speaker, that when, in the conscientious
                                discharge of a sworn duty here a duty we have been compelled to
                                discharge under the obligation of a solemn oath we have taken
                                herethat because we have not shrunk from our duty, we are to be
                                traduced by little scribblers all over the State, in every little
                                eight-by-ten, dog-fennel gazette merely because we have discharged
                                our honest duty according to our best understanding in the case.
                            As I have said before, Mr. Speaker, so I say yet, that I deeply
                                regret that we have no power to go now into an election of United
                                States Senators; for if I had the power to elect United States
                                Senators by my vote, certain it is, that by my vote, Jesse D. Bright
                                and Graham N. Fitch would not be in the Senate of the United States
                                for the State of Indiana. Having stated, when called upon on a
                                former occasion in this place, that I believed it was not in our
                                power to go into that electionthat the question had been settled and
                                closed up against us. And being called upon again by those who have
                                a right to know my views, I say now, that I still see no reason to
                                change the views I then expressed.
                            What, sir, would be my proper position,should I feel disposed to
                                change my views ? I was a candidate before the people and was
                                elected to this seat here upon a full and free exposition of the
                                views I have expressed on this question. Would it not have been
                                acting unfaithfully to my people had I attempted here to disobey
                                their voice, or to act in deliberate contravention of their
                                expressed will? Most assuredly. No, Mr. Speaker, had I changed my
                                views, I would at once have resigned my seat, in order that the
                                people of the county of Floyd might have found another man to carry
                                out their views. But, sir, 1 say here in my place, that I do not
                                believe there are ten men in the county of Floyd, who do not
                                entertain the views I have here endeavored to represent upon this
                                question.
                            I have said this, sir, in order that, at some future time, and in my
                                own way I might put tegether what I have now said, and the
                                declarations which I made upon this subject in the extra session;
                                for, although I may have but little reputation abroad in the State,
                                still I desire to be placed right before my constituents upon this
                                question, and especially those of them who take a deep interest in
                                the matter. I desire also to avoid misrepresentation, and,
                                therefore, for my constituents, as well as for myself, I propose
                                that what I say now, and what I have heretofore said on this
                                question, shall be prepared and published in the shape of a
                                speech.
                            I will not further occupy the time of the House, because I know the
                                friends of this paper desire to have the vote this morning.
                            And then under the force of the previous question demanded by Mr.
                                Murray, the memorial and resolution were adopted and concurred in by
                                yeas 51, nays 49, as follows : 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. -Messrs. Austin, Baird, Boyd,
                                            Boxley, Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark, Colgrove,
                                            Collier, Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Duvoll, Edwards,
                                            Pordyce, Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant. Hall of Rush,
                                            Hamilton of Boone. Hamilton of Wayne, Harrison, Hunter,
                                            Jeflfries, Johnston, Jones, Mansfield. Mellet, Miller,
                                            Murray, Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of
                                            Warren, Parks, Power. Bitter. Robinson, Rynerson, Scott,
                                            Sherman, Shields, Smith of Miami, Stanfield, Stiles,
                                            Thompson of Elkhart, Tread-way, Whetzel, Whiteman,
                                            Wildman, Mr. Speaker. - 51. 
                                        NAYS. - Messrs. Black, Blythe, Bowman,
                                            Carr, Claypool, Clayton, Clements, Davis, Dobbins,
                                            Dougherty, Durham, Early, Eastham, Firestone, Gifford,
                                            Hancock, Harney, Hartley, Jordan, Reefer, Kelly, Kempf,
                                            Knowlton, Law-head, Lewis, McLain, Major, Massey,
                                            Merrifield, Nelson, Newton, Parrett, Prosser,Row,
                                            Shockley, Shull, Smith of Perry, Snyder, Stanley,
                                            Stinson, Sullivan, Summers, Tebbs, Thompson of Madison,
                                            Turpie, Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler, Wood. - 49. 
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                             ALLEN MAY AND SECURITIES. 
                             Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, submitted a resolution requiring the
                                Attorney General to proceed immediately to institute suit against
                                Colonel Allen May, and his securities, on the $40,000 due from said
                                May to the State, and that any judgment thereon be pressed as
                                speedily as possible, without any unnecessary delay.
                            Mr. DAVIS raised the question, whether those notes were not the paper
                                of the State Treasurer, and preferred to defer action. He  did not recognize the right of the
                                Treasurer to loan out money and take such notes. If we were to
                                pursue this against May, it would relieve the Treasurer.
                            On the motion of Mr. EDWARDS, the resolution was referred to the
                                Committee on the Judiciary, with instructions "to inquire whether
                                the resolution proposes the proper course to be pursued, and if not,
                                what should be done in the premises?" 
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            After sundry calls of the House, the Senate concurrent resolutions
                                for the two houses in joint convention, at 2 1/2 o'clock, in the
                                Hall of the House of Representatives to proceed to the election of
                                three Directors of the State Prison, a State Librarian, a Trustee of
                                the Wabash and Erie Canal, a State Printer, and an Agent of State,
                                in the order herein stated, was taken up and concurred in by yeas
                                58, nays 39. 


                            
                                IN THE JOINT CONVENTION.

                                The Convention of the two Houses was organized according to order
                                    - the PRESIDENT pro tem, of the Senate in the
                                    Chair - and on the first vote for Directors of the State Prison
                                    - 
                                Mr. TURPIE nominated Grafton F. Cookerly, of Vigo county, and Mr.
                                    EDWARDS nominated Cullum H. Baily, of Vigo county.
                                
                                    
                                        Mr. Cookerly received 74 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Baily recieved 70 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        So Mr. Cookerly was declared elected.
                                    
                                    
                                        Senator MURRAY nominated Mr. Earlywine, of Shelby
                                            county.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. TURPIE nominated Thomas M. Brown, of Floyd
                                            county.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Brown received 75 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Earlywine received 69 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Brown was declared elected.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. TURPIE nominated Samuel H. Buskirk, of Monroe
                                            county.
                                    
                                    
                                        Senator GREEN nominated J. D. Kelso, of Floyd county.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Buskirk received 72 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Kelso received 67 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Buskirk was declared elected. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                STATE LIBRARIAN.
                                Under the order for the election of State Librarian - 
                                Mr. TURPIE nominated James R. Bryant, of Marion county.
                                Senator MURRAY nominated N. Wilson, of Tippecanoe county.
                                
                                    
                                        Mr. Bryant received 74 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Wilson received 69 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Bryant was declared elected.
                                    
                                
                                Under the order for the election of Canal Trustee (which was by
                                    ballot according to the statutory provision, older than the
                                    Constitution.) - 
                                Mr. TURPIE nominated Richard Raleigh, of Vanderburg county.,
                                 Senator WEIR nominated Dudley G. Coffin, of Parke county.
                                On the first ballot - 
                                
                                    
                                        Mr. Raleigh received 69 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Coffin received 70 votes. 
                                    
                                    
                                        Scattering 5 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        On the second ballot - 
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Raleigh received 72 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Coffin received 71 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Scattering 1 vote.
                                    
                                    
                                        On the third ballot - 
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Raleigh received 72 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Coffin received 72 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        On the fourth ballot - 
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Raleigh received 71 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Coffin received 71 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Scattering 1 vote.
                                    
                                    
                                        On the fifth ballot- 
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Raleigh received 69 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Mr. Coffin received 69 votes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Blank 1 vote. 
                                    
                                
                                Here the Convention took a recess till half-past seven
                                    o'clock.
                            
                        

                        
                             NIGHT SESSION. 
                             A call of the Convention proceeded and brought in the absentees:
                            Mr. Austin and Mr. Newton, Mr. Griffin and Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Black
                                and Mr. Hamilton, of Boone, Mr. Smith, of Perry, and Mr. Branham,
                                Mr. Clements and Mr. Miller, having paired off respectively - the
                                vote on the sixth ballot for Canal Trustee proceeded.
                            
                                
                                    Mr. Raleigh received 71 votes.
                                
                                
                                    Mr. Coffin received 69 votes.
                                
                            
                            Mr. Raleigh was declared elected.
                            Mr. TURPIE moved the order of the election of State Printer, and
                                nominated Colonel, John C. Walker, of Laporte county.
                            Mr. Senator MURRAY nominated Berry R. Sulgrove, of Marion county.
                            The PRESIDING OFFICER of the Senate directed a viva
                                    voce vote in this election, under the constitutional
                                provision.
                            Mr. Anthony failing to answer, a call of the House on the part of the
                                Senate was demanded, and proceeded without result, until it was
                                dispensed with, when the vote was taken.
                            For Walker, 73 votes were cast.
                            For Sulgrove, 68 votes were cast.
                            Mr. Walker having received a majority of the votes cast, was declared
                                elected.
                            In the order for the election of State Agent - 
                            Mr. TURPIE nominated Aquilla Jones, of Marion county.
                            Mr. Senator JONES said he had been requested to withdraw the name of
                                Mr. Jones, and he nominated James A. Cravens, of Washington
                                county.
                            Mr. Senator MURRAY nominated John D. Defrees, of Marion county.
                            Mr. Senator SLACK nominated D. C. Stover, of Montgomery county.
                            Mr. Senator HEFFREN nominated Samuel H. Owen, of Floyd county.
                            
                                
                                     Mr. Defrees received 58 votes.
                                
                                
                                    Mr. Cravens received 42 votes.
                                
                                
                                    Mr. Stover received 17 votes.
                                

                                

                                
                                    Mr. Owen received 10 votes.
                                
                                
                                     Scattering received 11 votes.
                                
                            
                            Mr. Senator HEFFREN withdrew the name of Mr. Owen.
                            On the second ballot - 
                            
                                
                                    Mr. Defrees received 57 votes.
                                
                                
                                    Mr. Cravens received 64 votes.M
                                

                                
                                    Mr. Stover received 7 votes. 
                                
                                
                                    Scattering received 13 votes.
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    On the third ballot - 
                                
                                
                                    Mr. Defrees received 53 votes.
                                
                                
                                     Mr. Cravens received 59 votes.
                                
                                
                                    Mr. Stover received 8 votes.
                                
                                
                                    Scattering received 12 votes.
                                
                            

                            Mr. HARNEY now withdrew the name of Mr. Stover.
                            On the fourth ballot - 
                            
                                
                                    Mr. Defrees received 52 votes.
                                
                                
                                    Mr. Cravens received 68 votes.
                                
                                
                                    Scattering received 13 votes.
                                
                            

                            Mr. Cravens was declared elected.
                            The Presiding Officer then adjourned the Joint Convention.
                             The House then (at forty minutes past 9 o'clock) adjourned. 
                        
                    

                    

                    

                        IN SENATE
                        
                             SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1859. 
                        

                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate the
                            annual report of the Superintendent of the Hospital for the Insane;
                            which was referred to the Committee on Benevolent
                                Institutions.
                        

                        
                            HEATING THE SENATE CHAMBER. 
                            Mr. BOBBS submitted the bill of cost for the,' heating apparatus
                                furnished for the Senate Chamber, amounting to $940 00; which was
                                referred to the Committee on Finance without
                                reading.

                        
                        
                            BILLS ON THE FIRST READING.
                             On motion of Mr. CONNER, the order of business was dispensed with,
                                and the following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                passed to the second reading:
                            By Mr. CONNER, (No. 17) providing for the partition of real estate
                                and for laying the same out into lots and outlots.
                            By Mr. HAMILTON, (No. 18) authorizing incorporations under the
                                general laws of this State to borrow money, and securing the
                                repayment of the same by mortgage.
                            By Mr. GREEN, (No. 19) providing for an enumeration to be made of
                                white inhabitants over 21 years of age in 1860, and every five years
                                thereafter.
                            By Mr. WALLACE, (No. 20) providing for and regulating the payment of
                                costs occasioned by the prosecution and conviction of persons
                                charged with felony, and punishable by imprisonment in the State
                                prison.
                            By Mr. HEFFREN, (No. 21) to prevent the issuing and circulation of
                                unauthorized paper currency, and providing a penalty for failure to
                                redeem any such currency.
                            By Mr. HILL, (No. 22) to prevent the inter-marriage of first cousins,
                                and defining the duties of Clerks of Circuit Courts in issuing
                                license.
                            By Mr. STUDABAKER, (No. 23) fixing the time of holding the Court of
                                Common Pleas in Alien and Adams counties.
                            By Mr. TURNER, (No. 24) to incorporate "the International
                                University."
                            By Mr. BOBBS, (No. 25) to provide for the redemption or purchase of
                                bank bonds, of Indiana State stocks, &c., 
                             By Mr. ANTHONY, (No. 26) to amend section 9 of an act to exempt
                                property from sale in certain cases, approved February 17, 1852.
                            By Mr. HARGROVE, (No. 27) to amend section 63 of an act defining
                                misdemeanors, approved June 14, 1852.
                            By Mr. TARKINGTON, (No. 28) providing for the safe keeping of public
                                moneys, bonds, and other securities entrusted to officers therein
                                mentioned.
                            By Mr. BROWN, (No. 29) to exempt personal property from forced sale
                                on execution.
                            By Mr. HEFFREN, (No. 30) to provide for the transfer of certificates
                                of State stocks, &c., and to prevent the fraudulent issue
                                thereof.
                            By Mr. BEESON, (No. 31) to suppress the publication of lotteries, and
                                defining the punishment therefor.
                            By Mr. BROWN, (No. 32) for the better protection of growing
                                cranberries, and to prohibit the sale or purchase thereof in the
                                time specified.
                            By Mr. FISK, (No. 33) to tax dogs, and indemnify owners of sheep
                                killed or injured by dogs or wolves.
                            By Mr. STEELE, (No. 34) making a misdemeanor, and punishable as such,
                                any assignee guilty of fraud; any person putting a bank note in
                                circulation after it has been redeemed; any person who may try to
                                prevent the speedy return of any bank issue, &c., &c.
                            By Mr. BENNETT, (No. 35) to amend section 433 of the law reform act,
                                approved June 18, 1852.
                            By Mr. RICE, (No. 36) to amend section 6 of an act providing for the
                                valuation and assessment of real and personal property, &c.,
                                approved June 21, 1852, so as to exempt certain property therein
                                named from taxation.
                            [A message from the Governor was here received, announcing his
                                approval and signature of the bill (H. R. 10) establishing a Board
                                of Sinking Fund Commissioners, providing for their election, and
                                prescribing the powers thereof.]
                            By Mr. CULVER, (No. 37) to amend section 4 of an act to provide
                                compensation to owners of animals killed or injured by the cars,
                                locomotives or carriages of railroads, approved March 1, 1853.
                            By Mr. CARNAHAN, (No. 38) to enable industrious indigent persons, who
                                are unable to give security, to rent. land.
                            By Mr. LOMAX, (No. 39) to amend an act providing for the election of
                                Clerks of Circuit  Courts, and
                                prescribing their duties, approved June 7, 1852.
                            By Mr. CONNER, (No. 40) to amend section 157 of an act to provide for
                                the valuation and assessment of real and personal property, approved
                                June 21, 1852.
                            By Mr. GREEN, (No. 41) to separate law books from the State Library,
                                and forming a law library of the State, and for the management and
                                government of the same.
                            By Mr. CONLEY, (No. 42) to repeal an act entitled an act establishing
                                a bank and branches, passed March 3, 1855, the Governor's objections
                                to the contrary, notwithstanding, and setting forth that the act was
                                procured by fraud.
                            By Mr. WILLIAMS, (No. 43) to amend section 33 of an act providing for
                                the valuation and assessment of real and personal property, approved
                                June 21, 1852.
                            By Mr. WAGNER, (No. 44) to change the time for the election of
                                members of Congress, and providing for their election.
                            By Mr. CRAVEN, (No. 45) to provide compensation to owners of animals
                                killed or injured by the cars, locomotives or carriages of any
                                railroad company in this State.
                            [Mr. JENNINGS, by unanimous consent, submitted a resolution, which
                                was adopted, that when the Senate adjourns it stands adjourned until
                                Monday, 2 o'clock P. M.]
                            [Mr. CULVER also, by leave, submitted a resolution, which was
                                adopted, requiring the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts, to inquire and report as to the propriety of
                                amending sec. 42, of the act of May 14, 1852, so as to require a
                                portion of said term to be set apart for probate business.]
                            By Mr. WALLACE, (No. 46) to amend section 4 of an act providing for
                                the election, fixing the compensation and prescribing the duties of
                                the Attorney General of the State of Indiana.
                            By Mr. COBB, (No. 47) to repeal an act providing for the protection
                                of wild game, approved February 26, 1857.
                            By Mr. MARCH, (No. 48) to repeal an act to provide for the election,
                                fixing the compensation and prescribing the duties of the Attorney
                                General of the State of Indiana.
                            By Mr. BOBBS, (No. 49) fixing the time of holding Courts in the Fifth
                                Judicial Circuit.
                            By Mr. HARGROVE, (No. 50) to amend section 16 of an act concerning
                                the partition of lands, approved May 2, 1862.
                            By Mr. WAGNER, (No. 51) for the better protection of religious
                                meetings, agricultural fairs and other lawful assemblages of the
                                people.
                            [The PRESIDENT pro tempore designed Senators Wallace, Tarkington and
                                Conner, as the committee, authorized by a resolution adopted
                                yesterday, to prepare and submit to the Senate, a bill defining the
                                duties of the Commissioners and President of the Sinking Fund.]
                            By Mr. BOBBS, (No. 52) to provide a site and place for the erection
                                of a House of Refuge for the reformation and correction of juvenile
                                offenders.
                            By Mr. CARNAHAN, (No. 53) authorizing County Commissioners to award
                                compensation to persons who may bring fugitives to justice.
                            [The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate
                                the annual report of the President of the Bank of the State of
                                Indiana, containing a statement of the condition of the bank and its
                                branches on the 20th of November 1858, which was laid on the table
                                and 200 copies ordered to be printed.]
                            By Mr. WAGNER, (No. 54) to amend an act authorizing the formation of
                                new counties and changing county boundaries, approved May 7,
                                1857.
                            By Mr. CONNER, (No. 55) to amend section 315 of the law reform act,
                                approved June 18, 1852.
                            By Mr. BLAIR, (No. 56) to amend sections 1 and 27 of an act providing
                                for the election of supervisors of highways, approved June 18,
                                1852.
                            By Mr. HILL, (No. 57) authorizing township trustees to establish
                                water courses, &c,
                            By Mr. TURNER, (No. 58) to amend section 14 of an act for the
                                reformation of the Hospital for the Insane, approved January 15,
                                1852.

                        
                        
                            "INDIANA SCHOOL JOURNAL." 
                            Mr. CONLEY, by leave, offered a resolution which was adopted,
                                directing the Committee on Education to report a
                                bill providing for placing a bound copy of the Indiana State Journal
                                in all the school libraries in the State.
                        
                        
                             STATE LIBRARY.
                            Mr. WALLACE had leave to offer a resolution, which was adopted,
                                directing the Librarian to prepare a complete catalogue of books in
                                the State Library, for the use of those having the privilege of the
                                same.
                            And then the Senate adjourned till Monday two o'clock P. M.
                        


                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1859. 
                        
                         Leave of absence till Monday was accorded to Messrs. Carr, Parks, Kempf,
                            Robinson, Whetzel and Hall, of Rush; and to Mr. Knowlton till Wednesday,
                            on account of sickness in his family.
                        
                            ADJOURNMENT TILL MONDAY.
                             Mr. SNYDER submitted a resolution making it a standing rule to
                                adjourn from Saturday at 11 A. M. to Monday, 2 P. M.
                            The SPEAKER. It can not be considered now because it proposes a new
                                rule.
                            Mr. SNYDER withdrew the resolution, and moved to suspend the order of
                                business to enable him to make a motion to take up Mr. Park's
                                resolution, submitted last Thursday, which proposes a standing rule
                                for Saturday's adjournment, to the same effect.
                            
                            Mr. POWER should vote for the resolution,out of consideration for
                                those members standing here in opposition to the Republican
                                party,who had been to a weding and infair last night and needed
                                rest. [Laughter.]
                            The rules were suspended and the resolution was taken up.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush.The adoption of this rule would not retard
                                business.
                            Mr. MURRAY preferred that gentlemen gohome on leave, and leave a
                                sufficient number disposed to work, at least to read the journal and
                                submit their reports, and asked the House to vote the resolution
                                down.
                            Mr. RITTER was willing to adopt the rule provided the House would act
                                upon another rule - not to excuse the aboence of any gentleman,
                                except for sickness in his family. The fact was, we sit here too
                                long. It was a clog to legislation to sit here when we ought to be
                                at work in the committees. 
                        
                        
                             BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                             A message from the Senate by Mr. Vawter,their Secretary, announced
                                the adoption in that body of the following resolution: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper be
                                            directed to contract A. E. Drapier & Son for six
                                            hundred copies of "Brevier Legislative Reports" of the
                                            Proceedings and Debates the present General Assembly,
                                            after the style of their reports of the proceedings of
                                            the late extra session in the"Legislative Sentinel" -
                                            said reports to be made up from columns of some daily
                                            newspaper printed in the town of Indianapolis, and laid
                                            upon the desks of members as fast as they shall complete
                                            sixteen pages in double newspaper column: provided the
                                            cost of the same shall not exceed one dollar per copy,
                                            the House adopting a similar resolution.
                                    
                                
                            
                             [A message from the Governor, by Mr. Osburn, Executive Messenger,
                                announced that his Excellency had approved and signed the Fund
                                Commissioners bill (18. 12.10.) introduced by Mr. Smith, of
                                Perry.]
                            The rule for adjourning over from 11 till Monday 2 o'clock was
                                adopted, by yeas 25, nays 29. 
                        
                        
                             WOMAN'S RIGHTS.
                            Mr. WHITEMAN moved further to suspend the rules to enable him to make
                                a motion to take up the consideration of the Senate's concurrent
                                resolution; inviting certain ladies to present a petition in their
                                own persons, in the Hall of the House of Representatives, on
                                Wednesday next, the 19th instant, at 2 o'clock P. M.
                            The motion was agreed to and the resolution was taken up.
                            On the motion of Mr. DOUGHERTY, the blank was filled with "two."
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD, and Mr. THOMPSON, of Madison, demanded the yeas and
                                nays on the question of concurrence.
                            Mr. BRANHAM hoped the House would not concur. He was in favor of the
                                right of petition, but did not think it right to waste the time of
                                the House with such an exhibition as was proposed. It was
                                unnecessary for these petitioners to come into this presence. If
                                they wish to petition for a redress of grievance, let them proceed
                                as in other cases of petition to the Legislature. He considered it
                                due to the reputation of our wives and mothers to refuse to concur
                                in this resolution.
                            Mr. LAWHED spoke in favor of the adoption of the resolution.
                            Mr. STILES should vote against the resolution out of consideration
                                for the sex.
                            Mr. DEVOL, understanding that the petition was to be presented by the
                                ladies in person, was very anxious that the resolution should be
                                concurred in.
                            Mr. CLAYTON thought this was carrying the joke a little too far in
                                the way of petition. Such an exhibition he believed had never before
                                been proposed in a deliberative body.
                            Mr. MURRAY was willing to concur in the resolution, with the
                                following amendment:
                            
                                "That the House will not organize till said
                                    petition is presented, and the parties presenting the same shall
                                    retire from this Hall."
                            
                            If he understood the reading of the resolution, it was that this
                                petition should be presented in person by the ladies at 2 o'clock
                                next Wednesday. He was in favor of giving the ladies the use of the
                                Hall for the presentation of their petition. They desired to present
                                it to the Legislature to read it themselves. He supposed it was to
                                be read. It was directed to the Legislature of the State of Indiana,
                                and all the ladies claimed was the right to read it to us as the
                                Legislature of the State. With the gentleman from Jefferson, (Mr.
                                Branham,) he held that it would be setting a bad example to give the
                                right to these ladies to come in here and occupy our time; for if we
                                allow it to them, we ought not to with old the same right to the
                                humblest petitioner in the State. But what right had the Senate to
                                set apart this Hall for this purpose? Why did they not permit the
                                ladies to come into their chamber?
                            Mr. POWER should vote for the resolution, because his mother was a
                                woman, and because he loved the ladies generally.
                            The SPEAKER. On reflection, the Chair decides the amendment out of
                                order.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, did not under stand the programme; but if the
                                petition was to be presented by the ladies in person - read by
                                themselves, and acted on here under their influence and dictation,
                                he could not but be apprehensive for the result of such legislation.
                                Still he could not refuse the exercise of the right of petition, and
                                would vote for the resolution with the proposed modification.
                            Mr. COLGROVE interupting. Is the gentleman from Boone a married
                                man?
                            Mr. HAMILTON. I am, sir, and have three little babies.
                            Mr. COLGROVE. Then it was not to be supposed that the gentleman was
                                in danger of coming too much under the influence of these ladies.
                                [Laughter.]
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON (Mr. Blythe in the Chair) was never averse to
                                doing an act of  kindness - and
                                least of all doing an act of kindness to the gentler sex. He did not
                                think we could consume more time in the hearing of the proposed
                                petition, than we have occupied this morning in discussing this
                                resolution. Many ladies (he continued) not only in our own State,
                                but in every State of the Union, deem themselves neglected, and
                                their God-given rights withheld by our legislation. This may be
                                true. I am not going to discuss that. But I will say that they
                                certainly have the right of petition. There can be no discussion
                                about the right - the only question is as to the manner of
                                petitioning. Here the ladies ask to be heard - to present their
                                petition in their own proper persons - to present their grievances
                                in their own way. And as for the influence of their presence here,
                                there was need for it this moment to repress the discourteous
                                language of gentlemen, for who could believe that in the presence of
                                ladies, any gentleman could indulge in expressions of contempt for
                                their proposition? Gentlemen have made themselves merry over it -
                                have made this proposition a subject of burlesque and ridicule. It
                                is not right that ladies should be treated in that way. If we look
                                at the history of the right of petition, and the manner in which it
                                has been exercised in connection with legislation - all we have of
                                this is derived from the parliamentary history of Great Britain - we
                                shall find it as old as the right of representation in that Island,
                                that men and women entered the parliament of Great Britain,
                                submitting their grievances in their own proper persons. We find
                                laws enacted to limit the number that shall present a petition, and
                                to restrain petitioners from coming into the parliament with arms
                                upon their persons, so that the lives and liberties of members might
                                not be endangered. But here, sir, there is no danger from these
                                ladies. True, some of us may be conquered by them, but if so, of
                                course it will be in a way that we can not regret. I hope, indeed,
                                that we may be conquerred so far as to do justice, and to be
                                courteous in all cases where the rights of ladies are in the
                                question - that, we shall have the manhood to give to the ladies
                                that position in civil society which shall enable them to press the
                                demand for all their right to the utmost extent - to the very
                                furthest verge. This is due to them. Let us remember that the ladies
                                constitute half the people of the State, and, as we all say, the
                                better half.
                            Mr. MURRAY interrupting. Does the gentleman know the object of the
                                proposed petition?
                            Mr. GORDON. I do not. I know some of the ladies concerned in it. I
                                have the honor to be acquainted with Mrs. Thomas and Mrs. Birdsall,
                                who have both written to me upon the subject, and I will here say,
                                that more worthy or intelligent ladies do not live in the State of
                                Indiana. They are ornaments to the State and to their sex. * * * *I
                                am just now informed of their object. Part of it I should vote
                                against and part of it I should be willing to concede. The first is
                                to give them an equal right with men to property. The second is to
                                give them the right of sufrage. They reason that the right of
                                taxation follows the right of property, and that taxation and
                                representation should go together. There is force in this. It was
                                upon this very ground that our fathers went to war in 1776.
                            Mr. GIFFORD, Mr. MERRIFIELD and Mr. MANSFIELD each spoke against
                                concurra and the resolution was further supported Messrs. SCOTT,
                                HALL, of Rush, and Mr. LAWHEAD.
                            Mr. RITTER demanded the previous question, and under its force the
                                House concurred by yeas 44, nays 37 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    

                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Bowman, Boyd,
                                            Boxley, Brotherton, Clark, Colgrove, Collier, Comstock,
                                            Cotton, Davidson, Dougherty, Devol, Early, Firestone,
                                            Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Eush, Hamilton of Wayne,
                                            Harney, Jeffries, Johnston, Jordan. Keefer, Kelley,
                                            Lawhead, McLain, Miller, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker
                                            of Warren, Parks, Power, Scott, Shockley, Smith of
                                            Miami, Snyder, Stanley, Thompson of Elkhart, Treadway,
                                            Usrey, Waterman, Whiteman, Wildman and Mr. Speaker -
                                            44.

                                        NAYS - Messrs. Baird, Blythe. Branham,
                                            Cavins, Claypool, Clayton, Dobbins, Durham, Edwards,
                                            Fordyce, Gifford, Gregory, Hamilton of Boone, Hartley,
                                            Jones, Lewis, Major, Mansfield, Massey, Merrifield,
                                            Murray, Martin, Nelson, Parrett, Prosser, Ritter, Row,
                                            Shields, Shull, Smith of Perry, Stiles, Stinson,
                                            Summers, Tebbs, Thompson of Madison, Turpie and Wood37.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            BANK OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House the reports from the officers of
                                the Bank of the State of Indiana and its several Branches.
                            On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, they were referred, without reading, to the
                                    Committee on Banks. 
                        
                        
                             ASYLUM FOR THE DEAF AND DUMB. 
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from Thomas
                                McIntyre, Superintendent of the Hospital for the Deaf and Dumb,
                                appointing next Wednesday even: for the time, and Masonic Hall the
                                place, for an exhibition of the proficiency of the pupils under his
                                care - no tickets to be given out but to members, who are invited to
                                occupy reserved seats.
                            It was referred to the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions. 
                        
                        
                             HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House the annual report of Dr. James S.
                                Athon, Superintendent of the Indiana Hospital for the Insane for the
                                year ending October 31, 1858.
                            On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, it was ordered that it lie on the table -
                                the order for printing to be made on Monday. 
                        
                        
                             FOREIGN WILLS.
                            Mr. STILES asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill (No. 67) in
                                regard to the contest of foreign wills and testaments, [parties
                                interested in foreign wills admitted to probate  may contest under the legal provisions
                                for contests in cases of the probate of domestic wills,] which was
                                passed the first reading.
                            Mr. STILES asked that the rules be suspended to enable him to move
                                the second reading of the bill.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY would ask whether the bill is not intended to apply to
                                a special casethe will of the late Hon. H. L. Ellsworth.
                            Mr. STILES. Only in part. The law now provides only for the contest
                                of domestic wills. If a person dies out of the State, and his will
                                be brought into the State, there is no provision for contest, but in
                                compliance with the provisions of the law of the State where the
                                testator died. If the rules were suspended, I should move to refer
                                the bill to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            The rules were suspended by yeas 69, nays 63; and then without
                                further action.
                            The House (at 11 o'clock,) adjourned till Monday 2 o'clock, P. M.
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             MONDAY, JANUARY, 17, 1859. 
                        
                         The hour having arrived for the special order, it being the
                            consideration of the Governor's Message - 
                        On motion by Mr. McLEAN, the Senate went into Committee of the
                                Whole.
                        The PRESIDENT pro tem, called Mr. Mc-Lean to the
                            Chair.
                        After some time spent therein - 
                        The committee rose, and the Chairman reported the adoption of sundry
                            resolutions, referring various portions and recommendations in the
                            message to appropriate committees, which were concurred in. 

                        
                            BILLS ON THE SECOND READING.
                            Mr. Cravens' (S. 1) to amend the law granting divorces. Read and
                                referred to the Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr. Wallace's (S. 2) regulating the election of United States
                                Senators. Read and referred to a select committee of five.
                            Mr. Studabaker's (S. 4) to amend an act for the valuation and
                                appraisement of real property and the collection of taxes, the
                                election of township assessors, &c. Read a second time and
                                ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Bennett's (S. 5) to amend an act to regulate the interest on
                                money. Read and referred to the Committee on
                                    Finance.
                            Mr. Slack's (S. 6) to provide for the safe keeping of the public
                                moneys of the State, and prescribing the duty of the State Treasurer
                                in relation thereto, was read the second time, and,
                            On motion by Mr. WALLACE, 200 copies were ordered to be printed.
                            Mr. Tarkington's (S. 7) to prohibit the issue of unauthorized Bank
                                notes, &c.r was read the second time, and referred to the
                                    Committee on Banks.
                            Mr. Hamilton's (S. 9) for the creation of townships, election of
                                trustees, &c., was read twice, and referred to the
                                    Committee on Township Business.
                            Mr. Fisk's (S. 10) to regulate and restrain the sale of spirituous
                                liquors, &c., was read the second time, which was referred to a
                                select committee of one from each Congressional District.
                            Mr. CONNER wished the bill to go to the Committee on
                                    Temperance, that they could examine the different
                                bills on the same subject, and report a bill embracing the best
                                provisions contained in the different bills.
                            Mr. STEELE hoped the gentleman from Wabash would withdraw his motion
                                to refer his bill to the Temperance Committee, as
                                this bill's author [Mr. Fisk] was in favor of a license law. He [Mr.
                                Steele] was in favor of that kind of law, provided we could not pass
                                something better in the shape of Senator Hill's bill. He earnestly
                                hoped that this bill might go to a select committee. Let them
                                perfect a bill of that kind, and then let the genuine temperance men
                                from their committee perfect their's, and if we can not pass one, I
                                do hope we may make the other a law before we adjourn.
                            Mr. CONNER withdrew his motion, and Mr. Fisk's motion prevailing - 
                            The PRESIDENT pro tempore made the committee to
                                consist of Messrs. Carnahan, Heffren, Crane, Fisk, Kinley, Blair,
                                Steele, Wallace, Weir, Hamilton and Murray.
                            Mr. LINE submitted instructions to the Committee on County and
                                Township Business, to which was referred bill (S. 9) to strike out
                                one trustee wherever it occurs, and insert three; and also that they
                                may hold four meetings in the year.
                            The debate on Mr. Line's instructions was resumed and was
                                participated in by Messrs. Tarkington, Line, Studabaker, Wagner,
                                Williams, Anthony and Murray.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON offered an amendment to the instructions, that a
                                committee report a bill giving the Board of County Commissioners
                                jurisdiction of the locating, opening, re-opening of roads; the
                                appointment of supervisors when not elected the appointment of one
                                trustee for each township, who shall discharge the duties that the
                                inspectors of election, overseers of the poor, and fence viewers did
                                under the revised laws of 1843.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON offered an amendment to the amendment, to the effect
                                that the committee be instructed to confer with the
                                    Committee on Education, and that the
                                committees report separate bills.
                            The amendments were accepted by Mr. LINE, and the instructions were
                                adopted.
                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, the order of business was suspended, and
                                messages from the House were taken up.
                            A Joint Resolution that a committee of two  on the part of the Senate, be
                                appointed to act with three on the part of the House, to examine the
                                books, vouchers, &c., of the Agent of State and Trustees of the
                                State Prison was taken up and concurred in by consent.
                            Mr. Bobbs' bill (S. 11) was read and laid on the table; the House
                                having proposed a bill similar in its provisions.
                            Mr. Jeffries' bill, (S 12,) making the taking of unlawful interest a
                                misdemeanor, and prescribing punishment therefor, was passed the
                                second reading, and referred to the Committee on
                                    Finance.
                            Mr. Turner's bill, (S. 13) to amend certain provisions of the law in
                                relation to swamp lands, coming up on the second reading - 
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the rules were suspended, by a vote of yeas
                                36, nays 1; the bill read the second time by its title, and referred
                                to the Committee on Swamp Lands.
                            Mr. BENNETT offered a resolution, that the Door-keeper be directed to
                                distribute documents equally among members, which was adopted.
                            Mr. WAGNER introduced a bill, (No. 59,) supplemental to an act to
                                provide for a general system of common schools, &c., which was
                                passed the first reading.
                            The Senate adjourned. 

                        
                    
                    


                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                        
                             MONDAY, JANUARY, 17, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            INSANE ASYLUM.
                            Mr. EDWARDS stated that the Superintendent of the Insane Asylum had
                                advised him that more copies of his report was demanded of him than
                                he was usually supplied with, and that he asked now for 3,000
                                copies. He therefore moved that 5,000 copies be printed for the use
                                of the Superintendent, in addition to the 3,000 copies required by
                                law.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. Stinson and Mr. Hancock had leave of absence on account of ill
                                health.
                            Mr. SCOTT presented the petitions of many citizens of Laporte county
                                recommending such amendment of the law in relation to landlord and
                                tenant as shall make the landlord's claim for rent a lein on all the
                                personal property of the tenant, without relief from valuation and
                                appraisement laws; which being read, he moved that it be referred to
                                the Committee on Judiciary, but - 
                            On the motion of Mr. GIFFORD, it was referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. HALL, of Grant, presented tho petition of sundry citizens of
                                Grant county, praying for the enactment of a law to rid community of
                                the evils of intemperance, which was read and referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance.
                            Mr. BRANHAM presented the petition of J. P. Drake and M. G. Bright,
                                praying relief as the securities of Alien May, from his alleged
                                liabilities; which was read and referred the  Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            
                        
                        
                            DEPUTY AUDITORS AND TREASURERS.
                            Mr. BAIRD, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned the resolution instructing them to inquire into the
                                propriety of enacting a law prohibiting deputy auditors from acting
                                as deputy treasurers, and deputy treasurers from acting as deputy
                                auditors, with the expression of opinion that legislation on the
                                subject is inexpedient.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. SCOTT, from the Committee on Judiciary,
                                returned the resolution, directing them to enquire into
                                constitutionality of the forms and precedents found in the Statutes
                                of 1852 both civil and criminal, and reported a motion for the
                                indefinite postponement of the resolution.
                            The report was concurred in. 

                        
                        
                            PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

                            Mr. SCOTT, from the same Committee, returned Mr. Ritter's bill (8) to
                                preserve public buildings and prescribing penalties for unlawfully
                                occupying the same, reported the same back, recommending that it be
                                indefinitely postponed.
                            Mr. RTTTER said he had introduced that bill at the request of many
                                citizens of the State. The law now punishes for injuries to public
                                buildings as for trespass and damages, This bill would make such an
                                act a misdemeanor and punish it accordingly. He considered a law
                                could hardly be passed of so little importance that would please the
                                people more than this.
                            Mr. COLGROVE. The offenses in the bill amounted to nothing more than
                                trespasses, and the committee thought the laws on that subject were
                                ample, if executed; and if not executed, it was perhaps useless to
                                have any law on the subject.
                            The report was concurred in. 
                        
                        
                            HORSE THIEF DETECTING SOCIETIES.

                            Mr. COLGROVE, from the Judiciary Committee, to
                                which was referred the resolution referring so much of the
                                Governor's Message as relates to companies formed for the purpose of
                                detecting horse theives and other felons, reported that said
                                committee have had the same under consideration, directed him to
                                report a bill and recommend its passage and accordingly - 
                            The Judiciary Committee's bill (No 68) to repeal
                                the act authorizing the formation of companies for the apprehension
                                of horse theives and other felons and defining their powers,
                                approved March 9, 1852, was reported and passed the first
                                reading.

                        
                        
                             UNAUTHORIZED BANK PAPER.
                            Mr. COLGROVE, from the fame committee, returned Mr. Martin's bill
                                (12) to prevent the issuance and circulation of unauthorized paper
                                currency, and to prescribe penalties for issuance and failure to redeem all such
                                currency, without amendment, and with a recommendation that the same
                                do pass.
                            The bill was, accordingly, ordered to be engrossed, and then - 
                            On the motion of Mr. MARTIN, it was considered as engrossed, read and
                                passed the third and last reading in the House of Representatives,
                                by yeas 76, nays 0. 
                        
                        
                             DIVORCE LAW.
                            On motion of Mr. JOHNSON, it was

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                the Judiciary inquire into the expediency
                                            of so amending the divorce law as to require both
                                            parties to have residence in the Slate at least twelve
                                            months previous to the time of application for divorce,
                                            and report by bill or otherwise. 
                                    
                                
                            



                        
                        
                             T.C. GILPIN.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS, A certificate from the Clerk
                                            of the Circuit Court of Rush County shows that an
                                            allowance was made by Judge Logan to T. C. Gilpin for
                                            certain ser. vices as prosecuting attorney in said
                                            Court; and WHEREAS, said certificate
                                            has been presented here and referred to the Committee on
                                            Ways and Means, as recorded on page 102 of the
                                            Legislative Sentinel; therefore,
                                        Resolved, That said committee be
                                            instructed to inquire into the expediency of making said
                                            allowance to the said T. C. Gilpin for such services.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            



                        
                        
                            COUNTY TREASURERS.
                            Mr. MURRAY submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Judiciary
                                                Committee be instructed to report a bill
                                            repealing so much of the law for the collection of the
                                            public revenue as requires the County Treasurer to visit
                                            the various election precincts for that purpose.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. COLLIER submitted a preamble and resolution, which was adopted,
                                directing the Committee on Rights and Privileges
                                to inquire and report the most efficient means of suppressing
                                theatrical entertainments, horse-racing, gaming, &c.

                        
                        
                            A NEW PENITENTIARY.
                            Mr. SNYDER submitted the following, which was rejected - that subject
                                being now before the Penitentiary Committee. 
                            
                                
                                    


                                        Resolved, 1st, That the Auditor of
                                            State be requested to report to this House, at his
                                            earliest convenience, the amount of fees and mileage
                                            paid since the year 1848, for each year up to the
                                            present time, and the aggregate of said items of
                                            expense, during said time, for transporting convicts
                                            from the counties of this State lying north of the
                                            National Road to the State's Prison at
                                            Jeffersonville.
                                        2d. What would have been the saving to the State in the
                                            last ten years in said item of fees, &c., if
                                            convicts had been sent from said counties to a
                                            Penitentiary located at Logansport?
                                        3d. What are the facilities for the erection of a
                                            Penitentiary at Logansport, and for the profitable
                                            employment of hands at that point.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            INSANE HOSPITAL.
                            Mr. AUSTIN submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                joint committee on public buildings to inquire into the expediency
                                of sinking an Artesian well for the better protection of the Insane
                                Hospital from fire.
                        
                        
                             TOWNSHIP BUSINESS. 
                            Mr. LAWHEAD submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing an
                                inquiry into the expediency of abolishing the present township
                                system, and transferring, as far as practicable, all township
                                business to the County Commissioners.
                        
                        
                            ACCOUNTS AND ASSETS OF PUBLIC OFFICERS.
                             Mr. SMITH, of Perry, submitted a concurrent resolution, which was
                                adopted, to the effect that a special committee of five - three on
                                the part of the House, and two on the part of the Senate, be
                                appointed to examine and report on the vouchers, accounts, and
                                assets connected with the offices of Agent of State and the Trustees
                                of the State's Prison, prior to the transfer of such vouchers,
                                accounts, and assets from the present incumbents of these offices to
                                their successors.
                            Mr. KEMPF submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                Superintendents of the Benevolent Institutions to report on the
                                parentage of those entrusted to their care, upon the assumption that
                                the condition of those unfortunates may be traced to consanguine
                                intermarriages as the cause.
                        
                        
                             COMMON SCHOOLS.
                             Mr. WATERMAN submitted the following, which was adopted
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Education be instructed to inquire into
                                            the expediency of amending the law, so as to give to the
                                            inhabitants of the districts; all the power compatible
                                            with the efficiency of the general system of common
                                            schools.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HARTLEY submitted a resolution, which was adopted, expressing the
                                opinion, that it is better to be taxed for the education of the boys
                                than for the ignorance of the men. [Consent.]
                            Mr. DURHAM submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                Committee on Education to inquire into the expediency and
                                constitutionality of so changing the school law that each county
                                shall retain and appropriate that portion of the school fund
                                collected therein.

                        
                        
                            SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.
                            Mr. CLAYPOOL submitted a resolution, directing the Judiciary
                                Committee, to inquire into the constitutional authority of the
                                Legislature to abolish the office of Superintendent of Public
                                Instruction.
                            After debate by Messrs. Murray, Scott, Clements, Hamilton, of Boone,
                                and Nebeker, of Warren, alleging that this was a constitutional
                                officer, &c,, the resolution was adopted. 

                        
                        
                            ADJOURNMENT TILL WEDNESDAY.

                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren the use of the Hall being tendered for the
                                temperance convention to-morrow submitted a resolution to adjourn
                                over till Wednesday, which was adopted. 

                        
                        
                             NEW BILLS.
                             In the order for the introduction of bills, propositions were
                                introduced as follows:
                            By Mr. EDWARDS, (No. 69 ) to repeal all general laws incorporating
                                bridge companies,  and providing
                                for the incorporation of companies for the erection of bridges, for
                                the erection of causeways across low bottoms, for the collection of
                                tolls, and regulating other matters properly connected
                                therewith:
                            By Mr. GRIFFIN, (No. 70) to make certain appropriations for the
                                purpose of digging and constructing what is known as the Grand
                                Calumet Canal Ditch, in Lake county, and denning the duties of the
                                Swamp Land Commissioner of said county in relation thereto[proposing
                                to appropriate $8,000 of the Swamp Land Fund:]
                             By Mr. HALL, of Rush, (No. 71) denning the residence of electors
                                emigrating from one county to another in this State:
                            By Mr. EARLY, (No. 72) to amend the first and second sections of the
                                act allowing compensation to the owners of animals killed or injured
                                by the cars or railroad carriages of any railroad company in this
                                State, approved March 1, 1852:
                            By Mr. JOHNSON, (No. 73) to enable industrious, indigent persons, who
                                are unable to give security, to rent lands:
                            By Mr. JONES, (No. 74) to prohibit the circulation of bank bills of a
                                less denomination than $5, in this State, and fixing penalties
                                therefor:
                            By Mr. BLACK, (No. 75) to regulate interest on money:
                            By Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, (No. 76) to amend the act regulating the
                                granting of divorces, nullification of marriages and the decrees and
                                orders of Courts incident thereto, approved May 13, 1852:
                            By Mr. MASSEY, (No. 77) providing for the election or appointment of
                                Supervisors of Highways, their duties, and certain of the duties of
                                county officers in relation thereto:
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading. 

                        
                        
                            FOREIGN WILLS.
                            On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, the order of business was suspended to
                                enable him to move the consideration of bills on the second reading;
                                and Mr. Stiles' bill (67) in regard to the contest of foreign wills,
                                pending at the hour of adjournment yesterday, was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            A message from the Senate announced the concurrence of that body in
                                the joint resolution of this day, by Mr. Smith, of Perry, and that
                                Messrs. Bobbs and Tarkington were appointed said committee on the
                                part of the Senate; and thereupon the SPEAKER appointed Messrs.
                                Smith, of Perry, Branham and Hunter, on the part of the House of
                                Representatives.
                            The SPEAKER now announced the following select committees on that
                                part of the Governor's Message in relation to the failure of the
                                General Assembly of 1857, to provide for the Benevolent Institutions
                                of the State, viz.: Messrs. Cavins, Hunter, Jeffries, Parrett and
                                Turpie - one from each congressional district.
                            The SPEAKER appointed Mr. Usrey to the place of Mr. Keefer in the
                                    Committee on the Town of Indianapolis; and
                                Mr. Davidson to the place of Mr. Sherman in the Committee
                                    on the Canal Fund.
                            The SPEAKER announced the following select committees, (under Mr.
                                Sullivan's resolution,) to consider that part of the Governor's
                                Message which relates to Banks, viz.: Messrs. Sullivan, Clements,
                                Prosser, Huntly, Melle Whetzel, Martin, Nebeker, of Warren, Sherman,
                                Wheeler and Comstock.
                            The SPEAKER announced the following select committee, (under Mr.
                                Boyd's resolution) to consider that part of the Governor's Message
                                which relates to the surrender of fugitives from justice, viz.:
                                Messrs. Boyd, Davis Blythe, Robinson, Colgrove, Dougherty, Martin,
                                Stiles, Turpie, Stanly and Harrison-one from each Congressional
                                District. 
                        
                        
                             WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            The House now pursued the calender of business, and the following
                                bills were considered and referred on the second reading:
                            Mr. Early's (23). Engrossed.
                            Mr. Robinson's (24), and Mr. Mansfield's (29), regulating the sale of
                                intoxicating liquors, prescribing penalties, &c.,on motion by
                                Mr. Mansfield, were referred to a select committee of nine, which
                                the SPEAKER makes to consist of Messrs. Mansfield, Stanfield,
                                Blythe, Davis, Harrison, Turpie, Jones, Scott and Murray.
                            Mr. HARNEY gave notice of his intention to make a motion to go into
                                    Committee of the Whole on the Temperance
                                question, next Tuesday.
                            Mr. Griffin's (25), Mr. Powers' (30), and Mr, Merrifield's (36), were
                                referred to the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts.
                            Mr. Treadway's (26), Mr. Jeffries' (27), and Mr. Griffin's (32), were
                                referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.
                            Mr. Blythe's (28), Mr. Scott's (31), Mr. Nelson's (33), Mr. Blythe's
                                (34), and Mr. Prosser's (37), were referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr, Turpie's (38), relative to Township Trustees and repealing
                                section 11 of the act of April 6, 1852. County and Township
                                Business.
                            Mr. Dobbins' (42), to amend section 21 of he Misdemeanor Act of June
                                14, 1852, comiug up - 
                            On motion by Mr. DOUGHERTY, it was amended by striking out "man" and
                                inserting "husband," and then it was referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. Austin's (43), and Mr. Durham's (35), to regulate the sale of
                                spirituous liquors, were referred to the Committee on
                                    Temperance.
                            Mr. Kempf's (44), to amend section 2 of Article 2 of the State
                                Constitution, was referred to the select committee on Mr. Gregory'1
                                bill, No. 13.
                            Adjourned till Wednesday. 
                            

                        
                        

                    
                    


                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 27 1859.
                        No. 4.
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 1859. 
                        
                        
                             WORK FOR COMMITTEES. 
                            On motion by Mr. WEIR, the order of business as dispensed with, and
                                bills of the Senate were considered on the second reading, as
                                follows, viz:
                            The bill (14) to amend the Acts of March 1,1853, and May 6, 1852,
                                providing for a more uniform mode of doing township business, was
                                considered and referred to the Committee on County and
                                    Township Business.
                            The bill (15) to amend the 103d section of the Criminal Practice Act
                                of June 17,1852, was considered and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            [Mr. SLACK asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill (No. 60) to
                                fix the times of holding the Circuit Court in the several counties
                                in the Eleventh Judicial Circuit, which, under suspension of the
                                rules, was passed the first and second readings, and ordered to be
                                engrossed.]
                            The bill (16) to amend the Acts of Jane 21, 1852, and March 7, 1857,
                                concerning license for public shows, &c., and for the
                                encouragement of Agriculture, was considered and referred to
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                            The bill (17) to provide for the partition of real estate, and for
                                laying off the same in lots and out lots, streets and alleys, and
                                for the sale thereof; also to provide when the same shall take
                                effect, was considered and referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            The bill (18) authorizing any corporation under the general laws of
                                the State to borrow money and secure the repayment thereof by
                                mortgage, was considered and referred to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.
                            The bill (19) to provide for the enumeration of all white male
                                inhabitants in the State over 21 years of age in the year 1860, and
                                every five years thereafter, was considered and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            The bill (20) providing for and regulating the payment of costs in
                                the trial of persons charged with felony and punished with
                                imprisonment in the State Prison, was considered and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            The bill (21) to prevent the issuing and circulation of unauthorized
                                paper currency, and prescribing a penalty for the issuance and
                                failure to redeem any such currency, was considered and referred to
                                the Committee on Banks.
                            The bill (22) to prevent the intermarriage of first cousins, was
                                considered and referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.
                            The bill (23) to fix the time of holding the terms of the Court of
                                Common Pleas in the counties of Adams and Allen, and to repeal all
                                laws in conflict therewith, was considered and ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            The bill (24) to incorporate the International University, was
                                considered and ordered to be engrossed.
                            The bill (25) to provide for the redemption or purchase of Bank
                                bonds, Indiana and other State Stocks, and United States Stocks, and
                                defining the duties of certain officers in connection there with,
                                was considered and referred to the Committee on
                                    Education.
                            The bill (26) to amend the 9th section of the act to exempt property
                                from sale under execution, approved June 17, 1852, was considered
                                and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
                            The bill (27) to amend section 63, of the act denning misdemeanors,
                                and prescribing punishment therefor, approved June 14, 1852, was
                                considered and ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. SLACK here made an ineffectual motion to adjourn.
                            The bill (28) to provide for the safe keeping, transfer and
                                disbursement of public moneys, &c., entrusted to the safe
                                keeping of certain officers, was considered and referred to the
                                     Committee on Banks.
                            The bill (29) to exempt personal and real property from forced sale
                                under execution, establishing the amount, and prescribing the duties
                                of officers therein mentioned, was considered and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            The bill (30) to provide for the transfer of certificates of stock of
                                the State of Indiana, providing for the registry of the same, and
                                providing against fraudulent practice therein, and providing
                                punishment for the violation of the provisions of this act, was
                                considered and referred to the Committee on
                                    Finance.
                            The bill (31) to suppress the publication of lotteries and defining
                                punishment therefor, was considered and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            The bill (32) for the better protection of growing cranberries,
                                &c., was considered and referred to the Committe on
                                    Agriculture.
                            The bill (33) [?]o tax dogs, and to indemnify the owners of sheep
                                killed or injured by dogs or wolves, was considered and referred to
                                the Committee on Agriculture.
                            The bill (34) making certain acts therein named misdemeanors, and
                                providing for the punishment thereof, [assignees of State Bank
                                assets,]  was considered and
                                referred to the Committee on Banks.
                            The bill (35) to amend section 433 ot the practice act of June
                                18,1852, was considered and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            The bill (36) to amend the 6th section of the appraisement act, so as
                                to exempt certain property therein named from taxation, was
                                considered and ordered to be engrossed.
                            The bill (37) to amend the fourth section of the act to provide
                                compensation for animals killed by railroads, approved March, 1853,
                                was considered and referred to the  Committee on
                                    Corporations.
                            The bill (38) to enable industrious indigent persons, who are unable
                                to give security to rent land, was considered and referred to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture.
                            The bill (39) to amend the act providing for the election of Circuit
                                Court Clerks and prescribing some of their duties, was considered
                                and referred to the Committee on Education.
                            The bill (40) to amend the section 151 of the assessment act of June
                                21, 1852 - chapter 6 of the Revised Statutes - was considered and
                                referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            The bill (41) to separate the law books of the State Library, and to
                                constitute the same the Law Library of the State of Indiana, was
                                considered and referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            The bill (42) to repeal the act to establish a bank with branches was
                                considered.
                            Debate ensued on the question of reference Mr. Gooding preferring a
                                select committee of five - Mr. Hamilton and others preferring the
                                Bank Committee - the debate embracing the question ot the power of
                                the Legislature to repeal said charter, as well as the policy of the
                                proposition, in which Mr. Steele, Mr. Hamilton and others spoke in
                                opposition, and Mr. Weir, Mr. Gooding, Mr. March and others in favor
                                of the bill.
                            Mr. McLEAN proposed to amend the motion so as "to refer the bill to
                                the Judiciary Committee, with instructions to inquire whether the
                                Legislature can constitutionally repeal said bank charter."
                            Mr. WAGNER spoke at length against the bill, as the bantling of
                                politicians and money speculators, and not demanded by the
                                people.
                            Mr. HENDRY and Mr. BOBBS preferred the reference to a select
                                committee, and maintained the right to repeal this charter, upon the
                                principle that no legislation nor Court decision can sanctify
                                fraud.
                            Mr. ANTHONY concurred in the apprehension that there was fraud in the
                                case, though a conservative man, he preferred that the bill go to a
                                committee of its friends.
                            Mr. WALLACE moved adjournment, but withheld the motion for - 
                            Mr. CONNER, who, by unanimous consent, submitted a resolution, that
                                considering the Temperance and Editorial conventions, now in session
                                in the Hall of the House of Representatives and College Hall, the
                                Senate, when it adjourns, shall adjourn till to-morrow morning, nine
                                o'clock; and the yeas and nays being demanded, and taken thereon,
                                resulted - yeas 22, nays 19.
                            So the resolution was adopted.
                            Mr. WIER submitted a concurrent resolution to meet the House of
                                Representatives in joint convention, on Thursday, at ten o'clock,
                                for the purpose of the election of a President and four
                                Commissioners of the Sinking Fund, and the officers of the different
                                Asylums.
                            Mr. JOHNSON proposed Friday.
                            Mr. WAGNER moved to lay the resolution and amendment on the table -
                                he never wished to go into joint convention in that Hall again.
                            The motion was rejected, by yeas 20, nays 20.
                            Mr. GOODING proposed to amend the resolution by striking out all
                                after "Commissioners," and inserting "Trustees of the Deaf and Dumb
                                Asylum and of the Blind Asylum, according to law"
                            The PRESIDING OFFICER. The law requiring that in the case of the
                                officers of the Deaf and Dumb Asylum, the Governor shall nominate
                                for the confirmation of the Senate.
                            Before any further question was taken - 
                            The Senate, at 12:20 o'clock, adjourned till to-morrow 9 o'clock.
                            
                        

                    
                    
                    
                        The House of Representatives did not sit to-day
                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            By Mr. WILLIAMS: A petition from certain citizens of Knox county and
                                the Knox County Agricultural Society, in favor of a geological
                                survey of the State. Referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture. 
                        
                        
                            RESOLUTIONS.
                            By Mr. ANTHONY: That the Auditor of State inform the Senate what
                                amount of money has been expended on the State Prison, up to the
                                time the same was leased to Samuel H. Patter-son; what was received
                                by the State from said lessee during his time; the amount of the
                                increase of property received from said lessee at the expiration of
                                his lease, and also the estimated value of the permanent
                                improvements since the Prison has been opened under the present
                                system.
                            By Mr. JOHNSTON: Requiring that the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary be instructed to inquire into the legal
                                right of the State, under the charter of the State Bank of Indiana,
                                to redeem at any time after the expiration of twenty years, the
                                bonds of the State known as the bank bonds, and report the result of
                                such inquiry.
                            By Mr. CONLEY: That the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts be requested to inquire into the expediency of
                                abolishing the present mode of selecting jurors, and instituting
                                some method less expensive, and that they report by bill or
                                otherwise. Adopted.
                            By Mr. MARCH: That the Secretary be requested to furnish the amount
                                of stationery furnished the members and officers of this body at the
                                last session. Adopted.
                            By Mr: TARKINGTON. Requiring the Committee on the Organization of
                                Courts to report a bill repealing Common Pleas Courts and embodying
                                the principle of the Surrogate system, by giving the Clerks of the
                                Circuit Courts juris-  diction
                                of all probate business not litigated, in vacation, &c.
                            Mr. GOODING asked if the resolution was one of inquiry, or if it was
                                imperative.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON answered that it was the intention to make the
                                resolution imperative.
                            Mr. GOODING would not now discuss, the question. It would be time to
                                do that when a bill was reported giving details. He would ask the
                                sense of the House on the passage of this resolution? 
                            Mr. ANTHONY was not prepared to vote for abolishing the Common Pleas
                                Court, but supporting this resolution did not bind Senators to vote
                                for a bill that might be reported.
                            Mr. LINE opposed the resolution. He considered himself instructed to
                                oppose the abolishing of the Common Pleas Court, and he should vote
                                against any effort in that direction.
                            Mr. MURRAY said the Senate was hardly full enough to take a vote -
                                but if it was taken, he wished it to be considered a test vote.
                            Mr. ANTHONY did not consider a vote on this resolution a test. He was
                                not prepared. He would probably vote against a bill abolishing
                                Common Pleas Courts.
                            Mr. CONNER was opposed to these attacks on Common Pleas Courts, and
                                spoke at length against this desire for change.
                            Mr. STEELE agreed with the Senator from Wabash, and moved to amend
                                the resolution by striking out so much as requires the repeal of the
                                Common Pleas system.
                            [A message from the House announced the passage, by that body, of a
                                concurrent resolution:
                            That the House of Representatives will, the Senate concurring
                                therein, meet the Senate, in the Hall of the House of
                                Representatives, in joint convention, on this day, at the hour of 10
                                o'clock A. M., for the purpose of electing, by joint viva voce vote, a President of the Board of Sinking Fund
                                Commissioners, and four Commissioners of said Board, in which the
                                concurrence of the Senate is respectfully requested.]
                            Mr. TARKINGTON spoke at length in favor of his resolution, contending
                                that the Common Fleas system was expensive. Reform was necessary.
                                The people were tired of supporting an expensive routine of
                                business, that could be simplified. Let the Circuit Courts take
                                charge of misdemeanors - charge estates with the expense of
                                settlement. He had no faith that these expensive systems would be
                                abolished, but he would require Senators to pnt themselves on the
                                record.
                            Mr. WALLACE moved to pass informally on the pending question, and
                                take up messages from the House.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to lay the resolution on the table. The yeas and
                                nays being ordered, resulted - yeas 20, nays 24.
                            So the motion to lay on the table did not prevail.
                            Mr. CONLEY moved a call of the Senate. The yeas and nays were
                                demanded, and resulted yeas 20, nays 23.
                            So the call was not ordered.M
                            Mr. SLACK moved the Senate adjourn.
                            The Senate refused to adjourn.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved that the further consideration of the question
                                be deferred until Friday, at ten o'clock. The yeas and nays being
                                demanded, resulted - yeas 17, nays 27.
                            So the motion to postpone did not prevail.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved the Senate adjourn. The yeas and nays were
                                called, and resulted - yeas 11, nays 33.
                            The previous question was demanded, and being seconded - 
                            Mr. SLACK moved an adjournment.
                            Which the PRESIDENT pro tem., decided out of order,
                                as no business had intervened since a similar motion had been
                                entertained.
                            Mr. SLACK appealed from the decision of the Chair.
                            [A message from the House was here received, informing the Senate of
                                the passage of bill (H. R. 12) to prevent the issuing and
                                circulation of unauthorized paper currency, and prescribing
                                penalties for the issuing or failure to redeem such currency.]
                            The PRESIDENT pro tempore directed the Senator to
                                reduce his appeal to writing.
                            Mr. WALLACE moved to lay the appeal on the table, which resulted -
                                yeas 22, nays 10 - so the appeal was laid on the table.
                            The question then was, shall the main question be now put, resulting
                                - yeas 27, nays 19.
                            The question then being on the motion of Mr. Wallace to take up the
                                message from the House, and the yeas and nays being
                                demanded,resulted yeas 28, nays 18.
                            So the motion prevailed.
                            The message from the House in regard to going into the election of
                                certain officers, was read.
                            Mr. WALLACE moved the previous question which, being seconded - 
                            Mr. TARKINGTON rose to a point of order.
                            There was no question before the Senate.
                            The PRESIDENT pro tempore decided that the question
                                of concurrence in the message was before the House.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to adjourn, and the yeas and nayes being taken,
                                resulted - yeas 11, nays 25.
                            So the Senate refused to adjourn.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON moved a call of the Senate, which was not agreed to, by
                                yeas 12, nays 32.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to adjourn, which not being entertained, Mr Slack
                                appealed from the decision.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved to lay the appeal on the table, which was done by a
                                vote of yeas 43, nays 12.The main question being on the motion by
                                Mr. Wallace to concur in the message from the House, being put,
                                resulted - yeas 30, nays 16.So the Senate concurred.
                            Mr. WALLACE moved that the Senate now proceed to the Hall of the
                                House.
                            Mr. CONLEY moved to lay the motion on the table.
                            [A message from the House, inviting the Senate to proceed instanter
                                to the Hall of the House, was received.
                            The Senate then repaired to the Hall of the House of
                                Representatives.
                            On the return of the Senate to their chamber, at ten minutes past 12,
                                they took a recess until 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The Senate was called to order by the PRESIDENT pro
                                    tempore, at 2 o'clock.
                            The Chair stated the question pending at adjournment, to be on the
                                amendment of Mr Steele to the resolution of Mr. Tarkington.
                            Mr. LINE offered the following: Amend by instructing the Committee to
                                inquire into the expediency of abolishing said court - and if they
                                should deem it necessary that justice should be administered freely
                                and without purchase - completely, and without denial - speedily and
                                without delay - that said court should be abolished then to report a
                                bill that will assign to the proper court or person the duties
                                discharged by said court.
                            [A message from the House inviting the Senate instanter to attend in
                                the Hall of the House of Representatives to hear the petitions of
                                the women, pursuant to a concurrent resolution of both houses of the
                                General Assembly, heretofore adopted.]
                            The Senate then vacated the Chamber, and repaired to the Hall of the
                                House.
                            The Senate returned to their Chamber and was called to order at ten
                                minutes past three.
                            The question pending was the amendment to the amendment on Mr.
                                Tarkington's resolution.
                            Mr. GOODING moved to postpone the consideration of the question until
                                next Tuesday at two o'clock, which was agreed to. 

                            
                                RESOLUTIONS.
                                By Mr. LINE: That the Committee on Finance
                                    inquire into the expediency of having the laws of this
                                    Legislature published in one newspaper of each county of this
                                    State, (if there be one) and report by bill or otherwise.
                                By Mr. JOHNSTON: That the Committee on Temperance be instructed
                                    to report a bill to the Senate upon the subject of retailing
                                    liquors, embracing the following provisions, to wit: 1st. That
                                    it shall not be lawful for any person to sell or give away any
                                    adulturated liquors. 2nd. Nor to any intoxicated person. 3d. Nor
                                    to any minor without the consent of the parent or guardian. 4th.
                                    And that it shall not be lawful for any person to keep a
                                    disorderly house to the annoyance of the neighborhood, with such
                                    penalties as may be consistent with the offenses, and that no
                                    license be required.
                                Mr. GOODING moved to strike out the words "and that there be no
                                    license required:
                                Mr. TARKINGTON offered an amendment to the amendment, as
                                    follows:
                                That the Committee on Temperance be instructed
                                    to report a bill making it the duty of the Common Pleas and
                                    Circuit Court to declare all places where spirituous liquors are
                                    sold in less quantity than one gallon, a nuisance, and that it
                                    be made the duty of the prosecuting attorneys to prosecute in
                                    every instance, under a penalty of $100 for every failure.
                                Mr. STEELE moved to lay the resolution and pending amendments on
                                    the table. The yeas and nays being demanded, resulted - yeas 28,
                                    nays 11.
                            
                            
                                 JOINT RESOLUTIONS.
                                By Mr. Bobbs (S. No. 4), a joint resolution to provide for the
                                    recovery of moneys paid out of the Township Library funds.
                                Mr. BOBBS moved its reference to the Committee on Judiciary.
                                Mr. TARINGTON wished the name of W. Noffsinger to be inserted in
                                    the joint resolution in the proper place.
                                Mr. WEIR moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                                Mr. TARKINGTON withdrew the amendment.
                                Mr. SLACK moved to amend by adding, in the proper place the name
                                    of Hiram E. Talbott and all other defaulters.
                                Mr. BOBBS moved to lay the amendment on the table. The yeas and
                                    nays being taken, resulted, yeas 18, nays 20 ; so the amendment
                                    was not tabled.
                                The vote on the amendment being taken by yeas and nays, resulted,
                                    yeas 28, nays 8 ; so the amendment was adopted, and the joint
                                    resolution was referred to the Judiciary
                                        Committee by consent.
                                Mr. STUDABAKER submitted instructions: the Committee to report a
                                    bill making it the duty of the Attorney General to commence suit
                                    in all cases of defalcation. Additional instructions by Mr.
                                    BOBBS : adopted.
                                By Mr. FISK'S joint resolution for the purpose of taking the
                                    sense of the Legislature upon the subject ot distributing such
                                    school funds as may accrue by the acts of the Legislature or
                                    otherwise, coming up 
                                 On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, referred to Committee on
                                        Education.
                                Mr. LINE'S joint resolution, instructing our Senators, and
                                    requesting our Representatives to vote for a law by Congress,
                                    fixing the time, placeand manner of electing Senators in the
                                    different States, comiug up - 
                                Mr. LINE moved to make it the special order of the day for next
                                    Monday, at 2 o'clock, which was agreed to, and then the Senate
                                    adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            CALUMET DAMN.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN presented the petition of sundry residents of Lake
                                county, praying for an appropriation out of the Swamp Land Fund
                                sufficient to connect the Calumet River with the Grand Calumet,
                                which was read and referred to the Committee on Swamp
                                    Lands.

                        
                        
                            OUR "COLORED FELLOW-CITIZENS." 
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House the memorial of certain colored
                                persons, convened at Indianapolis on the 4th day of January, 1859,
                                asking for the right to testify in courts of justice, &c.,
                                which, on motion of Mr. TREADWAY, was referred to the 
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges. 
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Secretary
                                of the State Temperance Convention, held in this hall yesterday,
                                inclosing a resolution of the thanks of that body for the use of the
                                hall of the House of Representatives for said Convention. 

                        
                        
                            JUDICIAL OFFICERS.
                            Mr. TURPIE, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned the
                                resolution of inquiry whether persons elected to judicial office,
                                and especially Justices of the Peace, are eligible to official
                                positions other than judicial offices, with a motion that the same
                                be laid on the table.
                            
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. MURRAY gave notice of a motion to take up the resolution at some
                                future day of the session.
                            On the motion of Mr. MANSFIELD, Mr. Harney was added to the
                                    Committee on Education. 
                        
                        
                            FUND COMMISSIONERS.
                             On motion by Mr. HUNTER, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the House will (the
                                            Senate concurring) meet the Senate, in the hall of the
                                            House of Representatives, in joint convention, on this
                                            day at 10 o'clock A. M , for the purpose of electing a
                                            President and Board of Sinking Fund Commissioners.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. TURPIE moved a call of the House, which proceeded, until it was
                                dispensed with.
                            Mr. MURRAY declared that he would vote for no Democrat to serve on
                                that Board.
                            Mr. BOYD would vote cordially for the old Board.
                            Mr, SCOTT would vote for Ebenezer Dumont, under all
                                circumstances.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY would vote for the resolution, to prevent out-side
                                juggling.
                            The resolution was adopted. 

                        
                        
                            ACTIONS.
                             Mr. ROW submitted the following, which was rejected:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Judiciary
                                                Committee be requested to inquire into the
                                            expediency of enacting a law to provide that no suit
                                            shall be brought against the maker or assignee of any
                                            written instrument, whether with or without endorsement,
                                            out of the township in which the maker resides, before
                                            Justices of the Peace.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            NATIVE WINES.
                             Mr. SULLIVAN submitted the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Temperance be instructed to inquire
                                            into the expediency of refraining from further
                                            legislation on the subject of the manufacture and sale
                                            of native wine and cider, and fixing a penalty for
                                            mixing or adulterating liquors, and report by bill or
                                            otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        
                            CLAIMS.
                             Mr. TURPIE summitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Judiciary
                                                Committee inquire into the expediency of
                                            so amending the law as to have the clerks dispense with
                                            carrying up the claims for trial, except at the instance
                                            of the claimant. 
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            SCHOOL FUND.

                             Mr. HANCOCK submitted the following, which was rejected.
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Education be instructed to inquire into
                                            the expediency of so amending the law relative to the
                                            distribution of school funds, as to give to each school
                                            district in a township an equal amount of money. 
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            PENITENTIARY.
                            Mr. LAWHEAD submitted the following, which was adopted. 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Auditor of State
                                            report to this House the amount of the cost of taking
                                            convicts to the State Prison during the last four years,
                                            from county seats north of the National road.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            TOWNSHIP LIBRARIES.

                            Mr. SHULL submitted the following, which was rejected. 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Commitee on
                                                Education be instructed to inquire into
                                            the expediency of abolishing the Township Library
                                            system, and recommend the tax levied for the support of
                                            said system to be added to the common school tax, which
                                            would increase the present school fund raised upon the
                                            tax duplicate one-fourth more, which would materially
                                            and in the payment of teachers for which the people find
                                            so much difficulty in providing.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            CLERKS FOR COMMITTEES.
                             Mr. BOYD submitted a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing the
                                Committee on Education to employ a Clerk; and 
                            Mr TURPIE, that the Judiciary Committee employ a Clerk. 
                        
                        
                            CANADA THISTLE.
                             Mr. MURRAY submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Agriculture inquire into and report
                                            whether any law is necessary to check the spread of the
                                            Canada Thistle in this State, and if so, report a law
                                            for that purpose.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. Speaker GORDON (Mr. Stanfield in the Chair) submitted the
                                following.

                        
                        
                            SWAMP LAND LAW.
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                the Judiciary be instructed to inquire
                                            into the constitutionality of chapter 59 of the Acts of
                                            the Generally Assembly for the year 1857, and that they
                                            report the result of such examination and inquiry to
                                            this House without delay.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. GORDON. The resolution contemplates inquiry into the
                                constitutionality of the Swamp Land bill of 1857. A great deal of
                                land has been disposed of under that act, and if it be not
                                constitutional, it is proper we should know it, because further
                                action on the part of the Legislature may be necessary, either to
                                arrest the sales, or to place the purchasers in a proper situation,
                                where they have purchased in good faith. Some of these purchases
                                have been made on contract for ditching, and no ditching done. I am
                                satisfied that unwarrantable, speculations have been made on sales
                                of such fraudulent purchases. I have papers in my hands that satisfy
                                me of this fact. It is important, then, that we should know whether
                                this act is constitutional. My own impression is that it is not.
                            The resolution was adopted.
                            Mr. GORDON also submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Public Expenditures be instructed to
                                            inquire how much money was expended on behalf of the
                                            State for services now devolved on the Attorney General,
                                            for the four years next preceding the creation of that
                                            office, and how much has been paid out for such service
                                            in addition to the salary of that officer, since the
                                            creation of said office. 
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        
                             SEPULTURE.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, submitted the following, which was
                                adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the select committee to
                                            which was referred the bill (.No. 17) to prevent the
                                            illegal removal of dead bodies from burial grounds, be
                                            requested to report said bill to the House.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.
                            Mr. MURRAY submitted ihe following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Education inquire into the expediency of
                                            reducing the amount of compensation of the State
                                            Superintendent of Public Instruction, so that it shall
                                            not exceed $500 annually.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            JUDGE MORRISON.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from Judge
                                Morrison, embracing his claim for defending a suit brought against
                                the Blind Asylum Trustees, which was referred with- out reading to the Committee
                                    on Ways and Means. 
                        
                        
                            SCHOOL FUND.
                            Mr. WATERMAN submitted the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                the Sinking Fund be instructed to inquire
                                            whether any pledge would be violated, by appropriating
                                            the interest on the bonds of the Sinking Fund to common
                                            schools, after paying the interest on the bank bonds and
                                            other expenses of the fund, and if so, that they report
                                            a bill accordingly, &c.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS.
                            Mr. HUNTER submitted a resolution inviting Senators to the joint
                                convention proposed for this day for election of Sinking Fund
                                Commissioners.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            By Mr. EDWARDS, (No. 78) to regulate the business of insurance
                                companies not incorporated by the State of Indiana ; to punish
                                violations of this act, and to repeal former acts in regard to such
                                companies.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD, (No. 79) requiring the county from which a change
                                of venue in criminal cases has been taken, to pay the expenses of
                                such trial to the county where such trial has been had.
                            By Mr. DOBBINS, (No. 80) to provide cites and places for houses of
                                refuge for the correction of juvenile offenders, creating a Board of
                                Commissioners for the same.
                            By Mr. HUNTER, (No. 81) to prevent the retailing of spirituous,
                                intoxicating and malt liquors; to provide for the punishment
                                thereof; also, to provide for the duties and compensation of certain
                                officers in relation thereto, and to repeal all former laws on the
                                subject.
                            By Mr. MELLETT, (No. 82) to regulate the practice in certain cases
                                appealed to the Supreme Court.
                            By Mr. SHULL, (No. 83) to amend section 7 of the act to authorize the
                                construction of levees and drains, approved June 12, 1852.
                            By. Mr. HARTLEY, (No. 84) to amend sections 10 and 13 of the act for
                                the election, qualification, &c., of Justices of the Peace, (in
                                civil cases,) approved June 9,1852.
                            By Mr. CAVINS, (No. 85) for the relIEf of Peter Shultz, of Greene
                                county, and releasing to him the interest which the State holds in
                                certain lands.
                            By Mr. PARRETT, (No. 86) for the relief of Jane Walker.
                            By Mr JOHNSTON, (No. 87) to amend sections 5, 6, 11 and 18, and
                                repeal section 8 of the act for the more uniform mode of doing
                                township business, approved May 6, 1852.
                            By Mr. STILES, (No. 88) to amend section 531 of the practice act of
                                June 18, 1852.
                            By Mr. SMITH, (No. 89) to amend section 3 of the act to incorporate
                                the town of Peru, ap proved February 14, 1848.
                            By Mr. PARKS, (No. 90) to provide for the election of county
                                prosecuting attorneys, prescribing their duties,defining their
                                compensation, and repealing all laws for the election of prosecuting
                                attorneys.
                            By Mr. BROTHERTON, (No. 91) to provide for the transfer from justices
                                of the peace to the Circuit Court or the Court of Common Pleas, of
                                certain cases therin named:
                            [Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, now had leave to submit a resolution,which
                                was adopted, tendering the use of this Hall, this evening and
                                tomorrow evening; to General S. F. Carey, of Ohio, for the purposes
                                of public lecture on the subject of Temperance.]
                            By Mr. HANCOCK, (No, 92) to amend the 8th section of chapter 11, of
                                the first vol. of the Revised Statutes of 1852, for the more uniform
                                mode of doing township business, approved May 6, 1852.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE, (No. 93) to amend the 6th section and second clause
                                of the 7th section of the Divorce act of May 13,1852:
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading. 
                        
                        
                             WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. Brotherton's bill, (39) to amend the 37th section, chapter 6,
                                vol. 3, Revised Statutes, 1852the misdemeanor act oi June 14, 1852,
                                was considered on the second reading and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Murray's bill, (40) requiring the State Auditor to pay over money
                                to the free banks, was considered and referred to the
                                    Committee on Banks.
                            Mr. Shull's bill, (41) to amend the 9th section of the Circuit Court
                                Clerk's Act of June 14, 1852, was considered and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                        
                        
                            ELECTION OF SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS.
                            A message from the Senate, by Mr. Vawter, their Secretary, now
                                announced the concurrence of that body in Mr. HUNTER'S resolution
                                for the joint convention this day at ten o'clock, for the election
                                of a President and Board of Commissioners of the Sinking Fund.
                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT, Mr. Hunter's resolution of inuitation was
                                taken up and adopted:
                            And thereupon, immediately, the Senators appeared and the joint
                                convention was called to order by the presiding officer of the
                                Senate.
                            The election proceeded in the constitutional forms, with the
                                following results: 

                            
                                FOR PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD,
                                
                                    Ebenezer Dumont received
                                    98 votes.
                                
                                
                                    A. L. Boach
                                    22 "
                                
                                
                                    E.W.H.Ellis
                                    7 "
                                
                                
                                    John S. Newman
                                    9 "
                                
                                
                                    Scattering
                                    6 "
                                
                            
                            
                                FOR COMMISSIONERS,
                                
                                    P.M. Parks, of Morgan, received
                                    82 votes.
                                
                                
                                    James Farrington
                                    55 "
                                
                                
                                    Scattering
                                    7 "
                                
                                
                                    John F. Carr received
                                    93 votes.
                                
                                
                                    A.B. Linn
                                    26 "
                                
                                
                                    James Campbell
                                    14 "
                                
                                
                                    Scattering
                                    2 "
                                
                                
                                    Beaty L. McClelland received
                                    102 votes.
                                
                                
                                    John Withrow
                                    29 "
                                
                                
                                    W.H. Thornburg
                                    6 "
                                
                                
                                    Joseph A. Bemusadffer received
                                    81 votes.
                                
                                
                                    A. C. Pepper
                                    45 "
                                
                                
                                    Scattering
                                    9 "
                                
                            



                            The PRESIDING OFFICER of the Senate announced the election of Messrs.
                                Dumont, Parks, Carr, McClelland and Bemusdaffer (being the
                                re-election of the President and former Board)to serve for the term
                                prescribed in the act passed at the present session of the General
                                    Assembly, and then the
                                PRESIDENT dissolved the convention, and Senators returned to their
                                chamber.
                            The House then took a recess till 2 o'clock.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            WOMAN'S RIGHTS.
                            Mr. PROSSER submitted a resolution inviting Senators, instanter, into
                                joint convention to been informed that ladies from my county have
                                hear the petition of women, pursuant to a concurrent resolution, for
                                that purpose, adopted last Friday, and that seats be prepared for
                                them on the right of the Speaker's Chair.
                            A VOICE. That's impossible.[The inner tiers of
                                seats were already occupied by ladies.]
                            Mr. KEEFER. I propose to amend, so as to provide seats in the
                                galleries
                            The SPEAKER. The amendment is out of order.
                            The resolution was adopted.
                            A call of the House was demanded, but objection being made, the House
                                refused to order a call.
                            Mr. TURPIE. Mr. Speaker, I move that theHouse resolve into Committee
                                of the Whole to hear this petition.
                            The SPEAKER. The motion of the gentleman can not be entertained. The
                                order is that the petition shall be heard in joint convention of the
                                two Houses.
                            Mr. DAVIS. Will this appear on the Journal?
                            The SPEAKER. The Convention for hearing the petition will appear on
                                the Journal.
                            The Senators now appeared in the Hall, and the President called the
                                Convention to order.
                            The PRESIDING OFFICER. Gentlemen of the Senate and House of
                                Representatives : In pursuance of a resolution adopted by both
                                Houses, you are now convened for the purpose of hearing a portion of
                                the Ladies of Indiana on behalf of themselves and their rights.
                            Mr. DAVIS. This is a very grave and important matter, and it seems to
                                me that we ought to have positions favorable to hearing and
                                understanding everything upon which we are called to act. A number
                                of Senators and others here are in a position that we can neither
                                see nor hear.
                            Mr. Senator BENNETT. There is a great deal of wisdom in that body (of
                                the Senate,) and it ought to be provided for
                            .Mr. DAVIS. I have to request that room be made especially for the
                                Senator from Vigo as the only bachelor in that body. [Laughter.]
                            Mr. EDWARDS. I object to that, on the part of my Senator.
                            The PRESIDING OFFICER. The hour having arrived, appointed for the
                                purpose of hearing the petition on behalf of the ladies, if those
                                entrusted with the matter are present, they will now proceed.
                            Mr. Senator SLACK. (Standing forward in the front aisle with Mr.
                                Senator McLean.) The Senator from Vigo is present. [Cheers and
                                laughter.]
                            Mr. McLEAN. Mr. President, I am overwhelmed. [Cheers and laughter
                                continued.]
                            Mr. CLEMENTS. I move that we proceed. I understand that this memorial
                                is to be read by the ladies themselves.
                            The PRESIDING OFFICER. That is the order If the ladies are present, a
                                place will be made for them at this table.
                            A VOICE. The gentleman from Wayne can tell who is
                                to read.
                            Mr. AUSTIN. I am not able to inform the Convention. I have had no
                                interview with any of the ladies expected to appear here. I have
                                arrived in the city, who are expected to present that petition, but
                                I presume they are not now in the House.
                            Mr. EDWARDS. I suggested the Senator from Wayne, who introduced the
                                resolution calling this joint convention. [Consent.]
                            Mr. AUSTIN. If my recollection serves me, half-past 2 was the hour
                                appointed for the presentation of the petition.
                            The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Chair is informed that that is the
                                hour.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. 2 o'clock is the time. It was fixed on my motion.
                                [Sensation.]
                            Mr. COLGROVE. I understand that the ladies who are to present this
                                petition will be present in a few minutes.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren. During this interval, it has been suggested
                                that the best looking bachelor address the assembly. [Vociferous
                                cheers and cries for "Nebeker""Nebeker, of Warren."
                            Mr. NEBKKER. Gentlemen cannot be well informed. I am not a bachelor.
                                I had reference particularly to the gentleman from Vigo. [Cheers and
                                cries for "Edwards."]
                            Mr. EDWARDS. I waive my pretentions for the gentleman from Warren to
                                give him an opportunity to exhibit his personal beauty, [Laughter
                                and cries again for "Nebeker," which subsided under the hammer from
                                the Chair.]
                            Mrs. Thomas, Mrs. Birdsall and Mrs. Cook, ladies of Wayne county, now
                                came forward and took seats at the Speaker's table.
                            The PRESIDING OFFICER introduced Mrs. Thomas to the Convention.
                            Mrs. THOMAS said: Permit me, friends, to say a word before reading
                                our petition. Brothers and sisters, we have not come here to exhibit
                                ourselves as a show to our brothers of the General Assembly. We have
                                come here feeling deeply the need of that which we petition of you;
                                and I beg of you to receive us as becomes our cause and your
                                position in this place. Gentlemen, we now read to you our petition,
                                as representatives of the women of the State of Indiana.
                            The petition was read in a few plain words - asking the General
                                Assembly to advance the women of the State to the same rights of
                                property now enjoyed by men; and for such an amendment of the
                                Constitution as shall confer the right or suffrage upon women.
                            An address in writing was then read to the Convention by Mrs. Thomas
                                - reasoning at length upon the subjects of the petition, and
                                stating, amongst others things, that the petition was signed by
                                nearly a thousand residents of the State, and that the number would
                                have been tens of thousands, but for the lack of effort to circulate
                                it. It was, properly, the petition of the ladies of Wayne county.
                                When Mrs. T. had concluded - 
                            
                             The PRESIDING OFFICER introduced to the Convention - 
                            Mrs. BIRDSALL, who read a very clear and logical plea in behalf of
                                the right of suffrage in womanand its exercise in this Stateif it
                                should be her pleasure.
                            Mrs. COOK followed in an extemporaneous address on the subject of
                                Temperance - making allusion to the unchivalric remark of one of the
                                orators of the State Temperance Convention yesterday, to this
                                effect: "We will hold the ladies' bonnets whilst they shall fight
                                the doggeries." Nevertheless, the lady was willing to strive in the
                                good work, but it was hinted how much more effectual would be the
                                work of the enfranchised woman in the cause of Temperance.
                            Mr. Senator STEELE submitted a resolution, which was adopted, to the
                                effect that the foregoing addresses of Mrs. Thomas and Mrs.
                                Bird-sail be spread upon the journals of the two houses.
                            Mr. DAVIS. if we are to have resolutions here, it were as well to
                                introduce bills and pass them.
                            Mr. Senator TURNER submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the publishers of the
                                            papers of this city, and all other papers friendly to
                                            the cause of Woman's Rights, be respectfully requested
                                            to publish these proceedings, together with the
                                            addresses.

                                    
                                
                            
                             The PRESIDING OFFICER. Gentlemen of the Convention, you have now
                                given your attention to the petition which has been read on behalf
                                of the women of the State. You can go no further now, though there
                                may be material matter in this petition for your future
                                deliberation. The Senators will, therefore, now retire to their
                                chamber.
                            So the joint convention was dissolved.
                            The SPEAKER called the House to order.
                            Mr. DAVIS and Mr. LAWHEAD moved adjournment.
                            The SPEAKER, still calling to order, did not entertain the
                                motion.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved a call of the House, which was refused.
                            The SPEAKER. The Door keeper will clear the aisles and lobbies.
                            A VOICE. They never will clear as long as the
                                ladies remain.
                            On the motion of Mr. MURRAY, the House resolved itself into a
                                Committee of the Whole- Mr.MURRAY in the Chairand took up the
                                consideration of the woman's rights petition; and after three
                                minutes spent therein, the committee rose, and the Chairman reported
                                a motion, that the further consideration of the subject be
                                postponed, and that it be made the special order for Friday, two
                                o'clock. P. M., and that the Committee of the
                                    Whole be discharged.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, moved a recess of half an hour; but - 
                            On motion of Mr. DOBBINS, at half past three o'clock - 
                            The House adjourned. 

                        
                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE
                        
                             THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 1859. 
                        
                        
                             WOMAN'S RIGHTS.
                             Mr. JOHNSTON moved to expunge from the journal the resolution
                                adopted by the joint convention, of yesterday, ordering the
                                recording of the addresses of Mrs. Thomas and Mrs. Birdsall. On
                                motion by Mr. BEESON, this motion was tabled - yeas 26, nays 15.
                            
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            By Mr. STUDABAKER, from Wells county, on the improvement of stock,
                                which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.
                            By Mr. JENNINGS, from Johnson county, on temperance, which was
                                referred to the Temperance Committee. 
                        
                        
                            ATTORNEY GENERAL.
                            Mr. WEIR offered the following resolution, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, the Attorney General be
                                            requested to inform the Senate the reasons why the suit
                                            in Floyd Circuit Court, in favor of the State vs.
                                            Newland, was dismissed, and why the same was not
                                            attended to by him.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. MARCH offered the following, which was adopted 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Attorney General be
                                            requested to report to the Senate the number and name of
                                            the cases in which he has been employed, or in which he
                                            has given a written opinion in the discharge of his
                                            official duties, during the last and present term of his
                                            office.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                             TEMPERANCE.
                             MR. STEVENS offered the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Temperance be requested to inquire into
                                            the expediency of incorporating into any bill they may
                                            report, a provision that all liquors sold by any person,
                                            under the provisions of such bill, shall not be drank in
                                            or about the house where sold.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            CONSTABLES.
                             Mr. THOMPSON offered the following, which was adopted. 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on County and Township Business be
                                            directed to inquire into the expediency of requiring
                                            Constables to file their official bonds with the
                                            Treasurer of the township in which they are elected,
                                            respectively.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            ABANDONED ROADS.
                             Mr. ODELL offered the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS, There are a number of plank,
                                            turnpike, gravel and M'Adamized roads in this State,
                                            that have been suffered to get and remain out of repair
                                            for an unreasonable length of time: And Whereas, there
                                            are many of such roads that have been partially
                                            abandoned: Therefore, be it - 
                                        Resolved, That the Judiciary Committee
                                            be requested to inquire into the expediency of
                                            introducing a bill to provide the mode and manner by
                                            which the rights of the owners of such roads may be
                                            declared forfeited; and that they report by bill or
                                            otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                             ROAD LAW.
                            Mr. SHOEMAKER offered the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Roads be requested to inquire into the
                                            expediency of revising the road law and of printing and
                                            binding in pamphlet form, ten thousand copies thereof,
                                            for the use of Supervisors, and report by bill or
                                            otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            BANK TAX.
                            Mr. WEIR offered the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That it is the sense of this
                                            Senate, that the law should be so amended as to require
                                            the Bank of the State of Indiana to pay corporation
                                            taxes.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HAMILTON moved ics reference to the Committee on
                                    Banks. He said he would prefer that it be made a
                                resolution of inquiry, but he should favor such a proposition. 
                             Mr. GOODING wished to bring the Senate to a direct vote upon the
                                simple question, ought banks to be exempt from corporation taxes? He
                                presumed every honorable Senator was ready and willing to take
                                grounds upon this question. Let us settle it this morning without
                                referring it to a committee.
                            Mr. BENNETT was willing to vote for a law of the kind contemplated in
                                the resolution, providing a committee report that it is expedient,
                                but he was not prepared to vote for the resolution, as imperative as
                                it is.
                            Mr. McLEAN would vote for a resolution of inquiry upon the subject,
                                but he held the Batik charter to be a contract made by the
                                Legislature as agent of the people of the State; the people were the
                                principal, and the principal is bound by the acts of the agent.
                            Mr. WEIR sustained his resolution in a few remarks. He thought the
                                Legislature unquestionably had the power to amend this act so as to
                                make the banks pay corporation taxes.
                            Mr. HEFFREN thought the passage of this resolution would have no
                                effect, unless the law proposed to be enacted should be consented to
                                by a majority of the President and Directors of each branch.
                            Mr. WEIR made an ineffectual motion to lay the reference motion on
                                the tableyeas 20, nays 23.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER moved to amend the motion to refer by substituting the
                                Judiciary Committee instead of the Committee on
                                    Banks.
                            Mr. HAMILTON accepted the amendment.
                            Mr. STEELE would say, as a member of the Committee on
                                    Banks, that he was distinctly in favor of the
                                proposition, and has always been.
                            Mr. MARCH thought it was not very material to which committee the
                                resolution was referred. He trusted there would be no hasty action
                                in the passage of the resolution, although he was in favor of the
                                proposition. He was opposed to taking any action at this time which
                                would recognize the validity of this bank charter.
                            Mr. WAGNER said this was a resolution of expediency, and he thought
                                it should go to the Committee on Banks. He moved
                                to amend the the motion to refer so that it shall go to the
                                Committee on Banks.
                            Mr. GOODING wanted to say one thing, in order that the anti-bank men
                                of the Legislature may not be caught napping. He had no doubt these
                                bank men would be glad to make a compromise with us to bring in a
                                bill amending the charter, and thus making us acknowledge the
                                legality of that institution. He was in favor of cutting it up by
                                the roots and throwing it out into outer darkness. This bank charter
                                is nothing more nor less than a law which any Legislature may
                                repeal.
                            Mr. STEELE thought that this last declaration of the Senator from
                                Hancock, [Mr. Gooding] was a montrosity.
                            Mr. BOBBS thought the charter was good, and that it was managed
                                fairly.
                            On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, the resolution and pending amendments
                                were laid on the table.
                        
                        
                             EMPLOYEES OF THE SENATE. 
                            Mr. WILLIAMS offered the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,Resolved, That in the opinion
                                            of the Senate, the Secretaries and Door keepers should
                                            be required to report the number and names of their
                                            assistants, as required in a former resolution adopted
                                            by the Senate.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                             ORDER OF BUSINESS.
                             Mr. ANTHONY offered a resolution rearranging the order of business,
                                which lies over one day under the rules.
                        
                        
                            SWAMP LANDS.
                            Mr. MILLER offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Swamp Land Committee inquire into the
                                expediency of transferring the Swamp Land business to the care and
                                control of the Auditor and Treasurer of State, now performed in the
                                several counties, for the purpose of the speedy settlement and
                                winding up of the same, and authorizing the purchase of swamp lands
                                at the offices of the Auditor and Treasurer of State.
                        
                        
                            EMPLOYEES OF THE SENATE.
                            Mr. RICE, from the Committee on Finance, to whom
                                was referred a resolution of the Senate, in relation to the
                                allowance of claims in the specific appropriotion bill, &c.,
                                reported the following resolution, and asked its adoption by the
                                Senate, viz:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the officers of the
                                            Senate report to the Finance
                                                Committee all purchases and items of
                                            account, made by them, at least once a week; also the
                                            numbers and names of all appointees and for what service
                                            appointed; and that all claims whatsoever, held by any
                                            person, be presented to said committee at least ten days
                                            before the adjournment of the Legislature, except such
                                            as may accrue within the list ten days of the session,
                                            and that no account presented by an employee shall be
                                            allowed, unless the person employing him certify the
                                            number of days the claimant served, the kind of service
                                            he did, and that he was necessarily employed.
                                    
                                
                            
                            The resolution was adopted by consent.
                        
                        
                             COMMON PLEAS JURORS.
                            Mr. McLEAN offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts to inquire into the expediency of abolishing
                                the regular panel of jurors for the Court of Common Pleas, and that
                                they draft and report a bill to that effect if it be deemed
                                expedient.
                        
                        
                            DEAF AND DUMB ASYLUM.
                            Mr. LINE submitted the following, which was adopted by consent:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS,The Superintendent of the
                                            Institution of the Deaf and Dumb did give a public
                                            exhibition of the progress of the pupils placed in said
                                            institution, for the accommodation of the members of the
                                            General Assembly; and WHEREAS, Many
                                            of the members of the General Assembly did attend said
                                            exhibtion, in which they did witness with a degree of
                                            State pride, the progress in intellectual improvement
                                            which the pupils were making in said institution;
                                            therefore,
                                        Resolved, That we do, with full
                                            confidence, recommend to the tax-payers of Indiana, the
                                            capability of accomplishing the highest anticipations of
                                            the public, in the education of our unfortunate mutes,
                                            and that we do, with an abiding confidence, recommend to
                                            all parents in the State, who may have mute children,
                                            their duty to place said muteg in said institution, for
                                            the purpose of obtaining such intellectual training as
                                            shall qualify them for usefulness in after life.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced and passed the first reading:
                            
                            By Mr. HILL (No. 61) to amend sec. 3 of an act to provide for the
                                government and discipline of the State Prison, and to repeal an act
                                providing for the regulation of the State Prison.
                            By Mr. TARKINGTON (No. 62) for the relief of the Indiana University,
                                to increase and extend its boundaries, and providing for the sale of
                                lands donated by the United States for the benefit of the
                                University.
                            By Mr. WILSON (No. 63) to amend sec. 5 of an act to provide for
                                equalizing the assessment of real property approved May 28,
                                1852.
                            By Mr. JONES (No. 64) to render public officers competent to testify
                                as witnesses in cases brought on their relation to the State.
                            By Mr. HENDRY (No. 65) defining the crime of embezzlement.
                            By Mr. BENNETT (No. 66) authorizing the Auditor of State to declare
                                and pay the final dividends of banking associations organized under
                                an act to organize and regulate business of general banking,
                                approved May 28, 1852.
                            By Mr. TURNER (No. 67) requiring the Superintendent of the several
                                State Asylums to report the number of patients who are offspring of
                                parents married within the degrees of consan guinity.
                            By Mr. McLEAN (No. 68) to amend sec. 9, of an act to provide for the
                                election of Clerks of Circuit Courts, and prescribing their duties,
                                ap proved June 7, 1852.
                            And then the Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock P. M. 
                        
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION. 
                            The following bills were introduced and were severally passed the
                                first reading:
                            By Mr. STEELE, (No. 69) to prevent the circulation of the withdrawn
                                currency of the old State Bank, and to punish persons violating the
                                provisions of this act.
                            By Mr. HEFFREN, (No. 70) supplemental to an act concerning county
                                prisons, approved May 27, 1852, and to provide for the erection of
                                work-houses.,
                            By Mr. Carnahan, (No. 71) to incorporate the Indiana School of
                                Practical Sciences.
                            By Mr. GOODING, (No. 72) to repeal an act to amend an act providing
                                for the settlement of decedent estates, approved June 17, 1852:
                                which was approved March 4, 1853.
                            By Mr. O'BRIEN, (No, 73) to provide for the collection of taxes
                                assessed against lands and lots mortgaged and secured to public and
                                trust funds, and to repeal section 8 of chapter 6 of the revised
                                statutes of 1852.
                            By Mr. KINLEY, (No. 74) declaring certain places where intoxicating
                                liquors are sold to be nuisances.
                            By Mr. JOHNSTON, (No. 75) to amend sections 9 and 20 of an act
                                regulating fees of officers approved March 2, 1855.
                            By Mr. STUDABAKER, (No. 76) for the distribution and investment of
                                the Sinking Fund asset apart and constituted by an act establishing
                                a State Bank, approved January 28,1834, and to provide for the
                                purchase of bonds.
                            By Mr. McCLURE, (No. 77) to amend section 18 of an act concerning
                                real property and the alienation thereof.
                            By Mr. BEESON, (No. 78) fixing the time of recording deeds and other
                                instruments of writing herein named, and to amend the 16th section
                                of an act concerning real property and the alienation thereof.
                            By Mr. LOMAX, (No. 79) to extend the time of payment to purchasers of
                                saline and school lands.
                            By Mr. FISK, (No. 60) to amend section 2 of an act to authorize
                                Commissioners of Sinking Fund to receive mortgages, &c.,
                                approved January 28, 1857.
                            By Mr. HARGROVE, (No. 81) fixing the compensation of executors and
                                administrators, and to repeal section 148 of the revised statutes of
                                l852.
                            By Mr. ANTHONY, (No. 82) to amend section 196 of a law reformed act,
                                approved June 18, 1852.
                            By Mr. BOBBS, (No. 83) to provide and secure the rights of married
                                women in real property.
                            By Mr. SLACK, (No. 84) fixing the time of holding the Courts of
                                Common Pleas in the Counties of Huntington and Wells.
                            By Mr. WAGNER, (No. 85) to provide for a general system of Common
                                Schools, to establish township libraries, and for the regulation
                                thereof.
                            By Mr. CARNAHAN, (No. 86) to amend section 1 of an act regulating
                                marriages, approved March 5, 1852.
                            By Mr. BROWN, (No. 87) to organize the Militia, providing for the
                                appointment and prescribing the duties of certain officers.
                            By Mr. HILL, (No. 88) to amend sections 3 and 4 of an act providing
                                for the protection of wild game, approved February 26,1857, and also
                                adding a section supplementary to said act.
                            By Mr. CULVER, (No. 89) to amend section 1, and repeal section 7 of
                                an act concerning interest on money, approved May 27, 1852.
                            By Mr. SHOEMAKER, (No. 90) to provide for the collection,
                                safe-keeping and disbursement of the public money, and fixing the
                                salary of Treasurer of State.
                            By Mr. JONES, (No. 91) to provide compensation to persons who may
                                bring to justice fugitives from the same.
                            By Mr. SHOEMAKER, (No. 92; to provide for a more uniform mode of
                                doing township business.
                            By Mr. HARGROVE, (No. 93) to amend section 15 of an act to establish
                                a Bank with branches, passed May 3, 1855.

                            
                                ORDERS OF THE DAY.
                                 The PRESIDENT pro tempore announced the order
                                    of the day - being the consideration of Mr. Conley's bill (S.
                                    42) providing for the repeal of the charter of the Bank of
                                    Indiana. A motion was made to refer it to a select committee (of
                                    five); an amendment was proposed referring it to the
                                        Committee on Banks, aud a further
                                    amendment that it be referred to the Judiciary
                                        Committee- the question being upon the latter
                                    motion - 
                                On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, it was laid on the table.
                                On motion by Mr. GOODING, the amendment was also laid on the
                                    table.  Mr. TARKINGTON made
                                    an ineffectual motion to lay the bill and pending motion on the
                                    tableyeas 13, nays 26.
                                And then the motion was agreed to and the bill accordingly
                                    referred to a select committee of five.
                            
                            
                                 BILLS ON THE SECOND READING
                                Mr. William's bill (S. 43) to amend section 33 of an act
                                    providing for the valuation and assessment of real and personal
                                    property, approved June 21, 1852, coming up, it was, on his
                                    motion, referred to the Committee on
                                    Finance.
                                Mr. Wagner's bill (S. 44) to change the time for the election of
                                    members of Congress, and providing for their election, was, on
                                    his motion, referred to the Committee on
                                        Elections.
                                Mr. Craven's bill (S. 45) to provide compensation to owners of
                                    animals killed or injured by the cars, locomotives or carriages
                                    of any railroad company in this State, was referred to the
                                        Committee on Corporations.
                                Mr. Wallace's bill, (S. 46) to amend section 4 of an act
                                    providing for the election, fixing the compensation, and
                                    prescribing the duties of the Attorney General of the State of
                                    Indiana, was referred to the Judiciary
                                        Committee.
                                Mr. Cobb's bill (S. 47) to repeal an act providing for the
                                    protection of wild game, approved February 26, 1859, coming up - 
                                On Mr. MURRAY'S motion, it was indefinitely postponed - yeas 22,
                                    nays 15. 

                            
                            
                                UNCURRENT MONEY.
                                On Mr. HEFFREN'S motion, the bill (No. 12) from the House of
                                    Representatives, was taken up, and passed the first reading.
                                
                            
                            
                                GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.
                                On Mr. WAGNER'S motion, the joint resolution (No. 8) from the
                                    House of Representatives, creating a joint committee, to which
                                    shall be referred petitions on Agriculture and a Geological
                                    Survey of the State, was taken up and read through.
                                And then the Senate adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             THURSDAY, JANUARY 20, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            Mr. EDWARDS presented the petition of Captain Mark Payne, and other
                                citizens of Vigo county, praying for the enactment of a drain law,
                                which was referred to the Committee on Swamp
                                    Lands.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, presented a temperance petition of a public
                                meeting in Warren county, in favor of Mr. Goodwin's bill introduced
                                into the Senate of the last session, which was referred to the
                                     Committee on Temperance.
                            Mr. JEFFRIES presented a petition of sundry citizens of Wayne county,
                                praying for more stringent game laws for the protection of quails
                                and other birds, which was referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                Privileges.
                            Mr. MURRAY presented the petition of P. F. Davis, of Elkhart county,
                                on the same subject, which took the same reference.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN presented the petition of E. 0. Dibblo, of Lake county,
                                asking for an appropriation of $500 on account of the outlet of Lake
                                George, and $1,100 damages, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Swamp Lands.
                            Mr. MURRAY presented the petition of Charles W. Seely, late Sheriff
                                of the county of Elkhart, asking for compensation for the capture of
                                Abe Morehead and John Potts, escaped from thejail of said county,
                                January 1, 1856total amount of claim, $107, which was referred to
                                the Committee on Claims.
                            He also presented the memorial of Joel Ellis, a long printed paper
                                setting forth his claims,which, on the motion of Mr. Edwards, was
                                referred, without reading, to the Committee on
                                    Claims.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS presented the memorial of Charles E.Smith, of Lagrange
                                county, embracing a claim for the recapture of a fugitive from
                                justice, which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Claims. 
                        
                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            On the motion of Mr. BOYD, the order of business was suspended, and
                                the House took up the consideration of the bills on the second
                                reading, namely:
                            Mr. Brotherton's bill (39) to amend the 32d section of chap. 6, vol.
                                2, of the Revised Statutes of 1852misdemeanor act of June 14, 1852,
                                was referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.
                            Mr. Colgrove's bill (47) to reorganize the Circuit Courts, &c.,
                                was referred to the Committee on the Organization of Courts
                                    of Justice, with instructions moved by Mr. Hamilton,
                                of Boone, "to amend so as to establish terms or days at the
                                beginning of each term for making up issues on which no jury shall
                                be called."
                            Mr. Fordyce's bill (45) for perpetuating records of survey of lands,
                                was referred to the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts.
                            Mr. Hamilton of Boone's bill (46) to repeal the Attorney General's
                                act of February 21, 1855, was referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.Mr. Hamilton of Wayne's bill (48) to
                                amend the 6th section of the County Board act of June 17, 1852, was
                                referred to the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business.
                            Mr. Robinson's bill (49) for reducing the width of the Michigan Road,
                                was referred to the  Committee on Roads.
                            Mr. Treadway'sbill (50) to amend the section 31 of the Supervisor's
                                act of June 18, 1852, was referred to the Committee on Roads.
                            Mr. Durham's bill (51) to amend the act of May 20, 1852, concerning
                                landlord and tenant, was referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. Waterman's bill (52) providing for the election and qualification
                                cf assessors, was referred to the  Committee on County and
                                    Township Business.
                            Mr. Hall of Rush's bill (53) to amend the section 14 of the
                                Supervisor's act of June 14, 1852, was referred to the
                                    Committee on Roads.
                            Mr. Stanley's bill (54) prohibiting clerks from practicing
                                lawprescribing penalty for refusal to issue summons, writs, &c.,
                                was referred to the Committee on the
                                Judiciary.
                            Mr. Colgrove's bill (55) giving Circuit Court Clerks probate
                                jurisdiction, prohibiting them from practicing law, &c., was
                                referred to the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts.
                            
                            Mr. Colgrove's bill (56) repealing the act establishing the Court of
                                Common Pleas, was referred to the Committee on the
                                    organization of Courts.Mr. Harney'sbill (57)
                                amendatory of section 74 of the act of June 17,1852, so as to
                                suppress gambling establishments, was referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. Martin's bill (58) requiring the Governor to make his requisition
                                lor fugitives from justice, was referred to the select committee on
                                that portion of the Governor's message
                            Mr. Harrison's bill (59) to extend time to borrowers of the trust
                                funds, was referred to the Committee of Trust
                                    Funds.
                            Mr. Boyd's bill (61) to regulate the retailing of intoxicating
                                liquors - suppress the evils arising therefrom - was referred to the
                                select committee of nine on that subject.
                            Mr. Boyd's bill (62) amendatory of the section 3 of the Recorder's
                                Act, approved May 31,1852, was referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Nebeker of Warren's bill (63) to regulate and restrain the sale
                                of spirituous and intoxicating liquors - punish drunkenness,
                                &c., was referred to the Committee on
                                    Temperance.
                            Mr. Hamilton of Boone's bill (64) to amend the game law, coming up - 
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD proposed to amend by changing the first of January to
                                the first of March in reltion to the time of killing prairie hens,
                                which was agreed to.
                            The bill was then referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, now moved, ineffectually, to resume the
                                regular order of business.
                            Mr. Stanfield's bill (65) to amend the section 4, of the usury act,
                                so as to allow the recovery of principal and interest on contract
                                for more than legal interest, was referred to the
                                    Committtee on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. Edwards' bill (66) to regulate insurance companies incorporated
                                by the State of Indiana, &c, was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            The Judiciary Committee's bill (68) to repeal the
                                Horse-thief Detecting Society's Act of March 9, 1852, was referred
                                to a select committee of five, which the SPEAKER makes to consist of
                                Messrs. Wildman, Waterman, Wheeler, Murray and Firestone.
                            Mr. Edwards' bill (69) revising the Bridge laws, was referred to the
                                    Committee on Corporations.
                            On motion by Mr. HARTLEY, the House then took a recess till 2
                                o'clock. 
                        
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Griffin's bill (70) appropriating $8,000 to the Swamp Land Fund to
                                complete the Calumet Ditch, was referred to the Committee
                                    on Swamp Lands.
                            Mr. Hall of Rush's bill (71) defining residence of electors removing
                                from one county to another in this State, was referred to the
                                    Commmittee on Elections.
                            Mr. Earley's bill (72) to amend sections 1 and 2 of the act of March
                                1, 1853, allowing compensations for animals killed by railroad cars,
                                was referred to the Committee on
                                Corporations.
                            Mr. Johnson's bill (73) to enable indigent persons to rent land, was
                                referred to a select committee of five, which the Speaker makes to
                                consist of Messrs. Johnston, Harney of Boone, Harney, Fordyce and
                                Robinson.
                            Mr. Jones' bill (74) to prohibit the circulation of a less
                                denomination than five dollars(a fine of ten dollars)was referred to
                                ihe Comittee on Banks.
                            Mr. Black's bill (75) to regulate interest on money, was referred to
                                the Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY moved to reconsider the vote just taken, on the
                                reference of Mr. Jones' bill to prohibit small notes, to enable him
                                to move that it be referred to a committee of its friends.
                            Mr. Hamilton of Boone, would insist that the bill should go before
                                the Standing Committee.
                            Mr. PARRETT would exclude small bills of other States - reciprocate
                                the action of the States of Ohio and Kentucky in this respect.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, considered the bill ought not to have any
                                friends. The Illinois law for this purpose was disregarded.
                            Mr. TEBBS alleged that the small bills law was disregarded in the
                                State of Ohio.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, had himself: passed Indiana small bills in
                                the State of Ohio: &c., but had no objection to the bill going
                                to a select committee.
                            Mr. JONES. This bill was not after the Ohio and Illinois laws. It was
                                a law which had worked well in Missouri, Louisiana, Mississippi and
                                Virginia.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS desired to reconsider.
                            The reference of the bill was recommended, and Mr. Hamilton, of
                                Boone, had leave to with draw his motion.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS made an ineffectual motion to refer to the Judiciary
                                Committee; and then the bill was referred to a select committee,
                                which the Speaker makes to consist of Messrs. Jones, Dougherty,
                                Turpie, Blythe and Hunter.
                            Mr. Hamilton, of Boone's, bill (76) to amend the Divorce law, was
                                referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Massey's bill (77) to revise the Supervisor's act, was referred
                                to the Committee on Roads, with instruction (by
                                Mr. Dougherty) "to amend the first resolution, so that supervisors
                                shall receive for compensation a credit for working the roads one
                                year." Also (by Mr. Hamilton, of Boone) so that "each voter shall
                                vote only for the supervisor in the Road District where he
                                resides."
                            Mr. Edward's bill (78) to regulate Insurance Companies not
                                incorporated by the State of Indiana, was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Stanfield's bill (79) requiring the county from which a charge of
                                venue is taken to pay expenses of such trial, was considered and
                                ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Dobbins' bill (80) to provide sites for houses of refuge and a
                                Board of Commissioners, was referred to the Committee on
                                    Benevolent Institutions.
                            Mr. Hunter's bill (81) to prevent the retail of spirituous and
                                intoxicating and malt liquors, was referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance .
                            
                            Mr. Mellett's bill (82) to regulate practice in certain cases
                                appealed to the Supreme Court, was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr Shields' bill (83) to amend the 7th section ol the act to
                                authorize levees and drains, approved June 7, 1852, was referred to
                                a select committee of five, which the Speaker makes to consist of
                                Messrs. Shull, Clements, Blythe, Mellet and Griffin.
                            Mr. Hartley's bill (84) to amend section 10 and 13 of the Justices'
                                act of June 9, 1852, was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            Mr. Cavin's bill (85) for the relief of Peter Shultz, was referred to
                                the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Parrett's bill, (86) for the relief of Jane Walker, was referred
                                to a select committee of five, which the Speaker makes to consist of
                                Messrs. Parrett, Sullivan, Stinson, Martin and Cavins.
                            Mr. Johnston's bill (89) to amend the act of May 6, 1852, for a more
                                uniform mode of doing township business, was referred to the
                                committee on County and Township Business.
                            Mr. Stile's bill (88) to amend the section 531 of the Practice act of
                                June 18, 1852, was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            Mr, Smith of Miami's bill, (89) to amend the 3d section of the
                                charter of the town of Peru, was referred to the Committee
                                    on Corporations.
                            Mr. Parks' bill (90) for the election of county prosecuting
                                attorneys, and prescribing compensation, was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Organization of Courts, with
                                instruction to "amend by striking out all that relates to
                                prosecutors in the Circuit Courts."
                            Mr. Brotherton's bill (91) to provide for the transfer of certain
                                cases from the Common Pleas and Justice Courts, was referred to the
                                    Committee on the organization of Courts of
                                    Justice.
                            Mr. Hancock's bill, (92) to amend the section 18 of the act of May 6,
                                1852, for the more uniform mode of doing township business, was
                                referred to the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business.
                            Mr. Colgrove'sbill (93) to amend the sections 6 and 7 of the Divorce
                                act of May 13, 1852, was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            Mr. Firestone made an ineffectual attempt to adjourn.
                            The House, then, (at 4 o'clock) reconsidered, and adjourned. 
                        
                    
                    


                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 1859. 
                        
                        The journal of yesterday was read.
                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore announced Senators Wagner,
                            Wallace, Steele, Murray, March, Carnahan and Line as the committee on
                            the joint resolution (H. R. 8) on the subject, of agriculture and a
                            geological survey of the State
                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore, also, makes Senators Conley,
                            March, Weir, Wagner and Heffren, the committee authorized to be
                            appointed yesterday afternoon, and to which was referred Mr. Conley's
                            bill (S. 42) providing for the repeal of the charter of the Bank of the
                            State of Indiana. 
                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. HILL presented a memorial from the yearly meeting of the Society
                                of Friends residing in parts of Indiana, Ohio and Iowa, held at
                                Richmond, praying for the repeal of that portion of our laws which
                                denies to colored persons the right to testify as witnesses in any
                                cause in which a white person is a party in interest.
                            Mr. SLACK moved that it lie upon the table, but withdrew the motion
                                at the instance of several Senators.
                            Mr. MARCH was surprised at the motion of the Senator. He thought it
                                would be well to let negroes testify, and that there was no danger
                                in allowing juries to determine as to the credibility of their
                                testimony.
                            Mr. SLACK was willing to extend courtesy to any reasonable extent,
                                but he thought the people of Indiana were almost as a unit upon the
                                subject of that petition, and that it would be a waste of time to
                                consider the matter. He therefore renewed his motion to lay upon the
                                table.
                            This motion was rejected - yeas 10, nays 27.
                            On Mr. HILL'S motion the paper was referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. HAMILTON presented a petition from H. P. Ayres, praying for the
                                erection of an Asylum for idiotic and imbecile persons, accompanying
                                a resolution directing the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions to inquire into the expediency of
                                erecting such an Asylum.
                            The resolution was adopted by consent, and the petition referred to
                                the same committee.

                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. CONNER, reported from the Judiciary Committee
                                his bill, (S. 17) providing for the partition of real estate, and
                                for laying the same out into lots and out-lots, and recommended its
                                passage.
                            The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed for
                                the third reading.
                            Mr. McLEAN, from the same committee, reported back Mr. Brown's bill,
                                (S. 29) to exempt personal property from sale on execution,
                                recommending its indefinite postponement.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. MARCH, from the same committee, reported back Mr. Conner's bill,
                                (S. 1) to amend the 6th, 7th, 12th, 19th and 20th sections of the
                                Divorce law, approved May 13, 1852, and providing for opening
                                decrees in the cases therein specified, with an amendment, and
                                recommended its passage.
                            Mr. HAMILTON moved to concur with an amendment that no divorced party
                                shall be permitted to marry for two years after the granting of a
                                divorce had by publication. He was opposed to fill divorces except
                                in cases of adultery.
                            Mr. BENNETT and Mr. CONNER opposed the amendment.
                            On Mr. HEFFREN'S motion, the amendment was laid on the table.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER said the law ought not to permit a recision of the
                                marriage contract to be opened up. He proposed to concur with an
                                amendment so that the question of alimony may be opened up but not
                                the question of recision of matrimony.
                            On Mr. HAMILTON'S motion, this amendment was laid on the table.
                            
                            Mr. MURRAY contended that we had no right to pass a law opening up
                                decrees that have been heretofore granted. He moved to strike out so
                                much of the original bill as refers to cases pending, and insert an
                                amendment to the effect that cases pending and commenced by bona
                                fide residents, shall not be affected by this act.
                            On motion by Mr. WEIR this motion was laid on the table.
                            The amendment proposed by the committee was adopted.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved to strike out from the 6th section the words
                                "heretofore or." He was standing up against his own individual
                                interest as a lawyer, when he advocated an amendment of the divorce
                                law
                            Mr. MARCH offered the amendment because frauds heretofore enacted
                                under the present Divorce law could not be remedied.
                            The amendment was adopted.
                            Mr. BLAIR and Mr.WALLACE made ineffectual efforts to amend, and then
                                - 
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed, for a third reading.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                reported a bill (No. 94) amending section 6 of an act for the
                                encouragement of Agriculture, approved February 17, 1852, which was
                                passed to the second reading.
                            [This bill changes the time of annual meetings of the State Board,
                                and allows to district societies a delegate-]
                            Mr. HILL, from the same committee, to which was referred a resolution
                                in relation to young bulls, bucks and boars running at large,
                                reported that further legislation on the subject is unnecessary.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. BEESON, from the same committee, to whom was referred resolutions
                                concerning the holding of fair grounds by agricultual societies,
                                reported that the said committee deem further legislation upon this
                                subject as unnecessary.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            And the Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock.
                        
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR [Hon. A. A. Hammond] appeared in the Chair
                                for the first time during the present session. 

                            
                                 UNITED STATES SENATORS.
                                Mr. WALLACE, from a majority of the select committee of five, to
                                    which was referred his bill (S. 2) regulating the choosing of
                                    United States Senators by the General Assembly, specifying time,
                                    place and mode of such choosing, providing for the designation
                                    of such Senators by the people, reported the same back with a
                                    recommendation that it pass.
                                Mr. MURRAY and Mr. STUDABAKER opposed the provisions of the
                                    bill.
                                Mr. ANTHONY moved to postpone the further consideration of the
                                    bill till Wednesday next, 2 o'clock P. M.
                                Mr. WALLACE spoke in favor of the changes proposed in his
                                    bill.
                                Mr. HEFFREN made an ineffectual motion to indefinitely postpone -
                                    yeas 21, nays 26.
                                And then Mr. Anthony's motion was agreed to. 
                            
                            
                                THANKS.
                                Mr. WILSON offered a resolution of thanks to the Hon. J. R.
                                    Cravens for the able and impartial manner in which he presided
                                    over the Senate during the absence of the Hon. A. A.
                                    Hammond.
                                The resolution was adopted by consent. 
                            
                            
                                DOCUMENTS.
                                 Mr. HARGROVE offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing
                                    the Door-keeper to procure and distribute certain documents in
                                    the hands of the printer. 
                            
                            
                                BANKS.
                                Mr. HEFFREN offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing
                                    the Committee on Banks to inquire into the expediency of
                                    amending the present assessment law, so as to require banks to
                                    be assessed upon the amount of bonds deposited in the Auditor's
                                    office, and upon their circulation, also upon the entire amount
                                    of currency, gold and silver on hand, on the 1st day of January
                                    of each year. 
                            
                            
                                ADJOURNING OVER.
                                Mr. WIER offered a resolution, which was rejected, that when the
                                    Senate adjourn, it adjourn to meet on Monday, at 2 o'clock, P.
                                    M. 
                            
                            
                                ORDERS OF THE DAY.
                                 Mr. ANTHONY'S resolution of yesterday, with reference to the
                                    order of business, was now adopted. It is as follows: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Rosolved, That the 53d rule of the
                                                Senate be so changed as to read as follows: The
                                                daily order of transacting business, shall be as
                                                follows, viz: 1st. Reading and correcting the
                                                journal of the preceding day. 2d. Introduction of
                                                petitions, memorials, and remonstrances. 3d. Reports
                                                from Standing Committees. 4th. Reports from Select
                                                Committees. 5th. Bills. 6th. Orders of the day. 7th.
                                                Resolutions of the Senate. 8th. Joint
                                                resolutions.

                                        
                                    
                                
                                 On motion by Mr. MURRAY, 100 copies were ordered to be printed.
                                
                            
                            
                                TRUSTEES OF ASYLUMS.
                                 Mr. STEVENS offered a resolution, which was adopted, requesting
                                    the Committee on Benevolent Institutions to
                                    inquire into the expediency of limiting the meetings of Trustees
                                    of State Asylums to one every three months, unless by special
                                    call of Superintendent. 
                            
                            
                                PUBLIC PRINTING.
                                Mr. ANTHONY offered a preamble and resolution, stating that the
                                    present law by which the public printing is done is
                                    unnecessarily high, and directing the Committee on
                                        Printing to report a bill amending the laws
                                    reducing the prices.
                                The resolution was adopted.
                            
                            
                                TAXES ON NEGROES.
                                Mr. KINLEY offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing
                                    the Committee on Education to inquire into
                                    the expediency of providing by law for the assessment of taxes
                                    for school pur poses on people of color, and applying the funds
                                    to the education of the colored persons of the State in separate
                                    schools. 
                            
                            
                                 JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.
                                Mr. McCLURE offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing
                                    the Committee on Education to inquire into
                                    the expediency of so amending an act approved March 1, 1855,
                                    entitled an  act to amend
                                    the 21st section of an act prescribing the duties of Justices of
                                    the Peace in State prosecutions, approved May 29, 1852, as not
                                    to require said Justice of the Peace on the first Monday in
                                    January and July, to make returns to the Treasurer of his county
                                    of fines and fees unclaimed when they have no such moneys, and
                                    when the amount on hand will not justify the expense of making
                                    such returns. 
                            
                            
                                KANSAS AND OREGON.
                                Mr. TURNER offered a joint resolution (No. 7) directing our
                                    Senators and Representatives in Congress to vote for the
                                    admission of Kansas and Oregon into the Union at as early a day
                                    as possible.
                                Mr. WALLACE was in favor of the resolution, but it did not go far
                                    enough. He moved to lay it on the table for the present.
                                The motion was agreed to. 
                            
                            
                                PRINTING OF THE JOURNALS.
                                Mr. HEFFREN offered a resolution, which was rejected, directing
                                    the Secretary of the Senate to deliver the journal of the extra
                                    session to the proper officer, according to law. 
                            
                            
                                TEMPERANCE
                                Mr. GOODING introduced a bill (S. 95) to regulate and restrain
                                    the sale of spiritous and intoxicating liquors, which was passed
                                    the first reading.
                                On motion by Mr. GOODING the rules were suspended and the bill
                                    read a second time - yeas 35, nays 7and referred to the
                                        Committee on Temperance. 
                            
                            
                                 FROM THE HOUSE. 
                                A message was received from the House of Representatives,
                                    announcing the adoption by that body of the following
                                    resolution:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Door-keeper be
                                                directed to contract with A. E. Drapier & Son
                                                for five hundred copies of ''Brevier Legislative
                                                Reports" of the Proceedings and Debates of the
                                                present General Assembly, after the style of their
                                                reports of the proceedings of the late extra session
                                                in the "Legislative Sentinel"said reports to be made
                                                up from the columns of some daily newspaper printed
                                                in the town of Indianapolis, and laid upon the desks
                                                of members as fast as they shall complete sixteen
                                                pages in double newspaper column; provided the cost
                                                of the same shall not exceed one dollar per copy,
                                                the Senate adopting a similar resolution.
                                        
                                    
                                

                            
                            
                                TEMPERANCE.
                                Mr. HEFFREN introduced a bill (S. 96) to regulate and restrain
                                    the retailing of spiritous liquors and for the suppression of
                                    evils arising therefrom, which was passed the second
                                    reading.
                                On motion by Mr. HEFFREN the rules were suspendedyeas 42, nays
                                    2the bill read the second time by title and referred to the
                                        Committee on Temperance.
                                Mr. TARKINGTON introduced a bill (No. 97) to prevent the
                                    retailing of spiritous and intoxicating liquors, &c., which
                                    was read through the first time.
                                On motion by Mr. GOODING [Mr. Tarkington in the chair,] the bill
                                    was read the second time by title - yeas 41, nays 1.
                                On motion by Mr. TURNER it was referred to the 
                                        Committee on Temperance.
                                Mr. ROBINSON introduced a bill (No. 98) to regulate and restrain
                                    the sale of spiritous and intoxicating liquors, which was read
                                    through.
                                The rules were suspended - yeas 37, nays 1 the bill read the
                                    second time by title and referred to the Temperance
                                        Committee.
                            
                            
                                WILD GAME.
                                 Mr. CONLEY introduced a bill (No. 99) to provide for the
                                    protection of wild game, which s passed to the second reading.
                                
                            
                            
                                TOWNSHIP BUSINESS.
                                 Mr. WALLACE introduced a bill (No. 100) providing for a more
                                    uniform mode of doing township business, which was read through
                                    and passed to the second reading. 
                            
                            
                                ASSESSMENT OF PROPERTY.
                                Mr. JOHNSTON introduced a bill (No. 101) to authorize County
                                    Treasurers to assess property which may be omitted by assessors,
                                    and to legalize assessments heretofore made by treasurers, which
                                    was passed the first reading.
                                Mr. WILSON introduced a bill (No. 102) to amend the 3d section of
                                    an act to establish Courts of Common Pleas, which was passed to
                                    the second reading.
                                And then the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                        
                    
                    


                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             FRIDAY, JANUARY 21, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            Mr. COTTON presented the petition of sundry citizens, on the subject
                                of Temperance.
                            Mr. DAVIDSON presented a petition of citizens of Kosciusko county,
                                for a conventional interest law.
                            Mr. WHETZEL presented a petition embracing the claim of William
                                Tanzy.
                            Mr. SCOTT - the claim of William Whitehead. 
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. Nelson's bill (39) was returned, and indefinitely postponed.
                            Mr. Mellett's bill (19) was returned and ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. BLYTHE reported that it was inexpedient to legislate further so
                                as to allow parties to swear to book accounts; also, that the bill
                                (No. 14) be laid on the table: also, that the bill (No. 34) be
                                amended and passed, and the report was concurred in.
                            Mr. STANFIELD reported favorably on his bill, (No. 3) so as to allow
                                complainants and co-defendants to testify in certain cases, and it
                                was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. STANFIELD returned his bill (No. 65) to amend the usury laws, and
                                it was made the special order for Wednesday.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, returned the bill to prohibit concealed
                                weapons, and it was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Harney's bill (No. 57) was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Brotherton's bill (No. 39) was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Shull's conventional interest bill was laid on the table.
                            Mr. BAIRD reported a substitute for the bill (No. 15) entitled a bill
                                (No. 94) supplemental to an act entitled an act to exempt property
                                from sale in certain cases, approved February 17,  (before any person shall be entitled
                                to the benefit of this act he shall make out an inventory of his
                                effects under oath, and deliver to the officer)which was passed the
                                first reading
                            Mr. KEMPF returned the bills (Nos. 13 and 44) recommending the
                                passage of the former so amending the Constitution as to require
                                foreign voters to reside five years.
                            After debate the report was laid on the table by yeas 51, nays 42, as
                                follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS- Messrs. Black, Bowman, Carr,
                                            Claypool, Clayton, Clements, Collier, Dobbins,
                                            Dougherty, Durham, Early, Eastham, Firestone, Gifford,
                                            Griffin, Hancock, Harrison, Hartley, Jones, Jordan,
                                            Kelly, Lawhead, Lewis, McLain, Major, Massey,
                                            Merrifield, Murray, Nelson, Newton, Parks, Parrett,
                                            Prosser, Row, Scott, Shields, Shockley, Shull, Snyder,
                                            Stanley, Stanfield, Sullivan, Summers, Tebbs, Thompson
                                            of Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Turpie, Usrey,
                                            Waterman, Wheeler and Wood. - 51.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Baird, Blythe,
                                            Boyd, Boxley, Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark,
                                            Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Davis, Edwards, Fordyce,
                                            Gregory, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton of Boone,
                                            Hamilton of Wayne, Hunter, Jeffries, Johnston, Kempf,
                                            Mansfield, Mellett, Miller, Martin, Nebeker of
                                            Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Ritter, Robinson,
                                            Rynerson, Sherman, Smith of Miami, Smith of Perry,
                                            Stiles, Treadway, Whetzel, Whiteman, Wildman and Mr.
                                            Speaker, - 42.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. PARRETT, from the select committee on that subject, returned the
                                bill (8) for the relief of Jane Walker, and recommended its
                                passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. HUNTER (by consent) submitted the report of the Clerk of the
                                stationery room, embracing the items drawn by members and officers,
                                which remains on the Clerk's files, without action. 
                        
                        
                            BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                            Mr. STANFIELD offered the following resolution: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper be
                                            directed to contract with A. E. Drapier & Son for
                                            six hundred copies of ''Brevier Legislative Reports" of
                                            the Proceedings and Debates of the present General
                                            Assemby, after the style of their reports of the
                                            proceedings of the late extra session in the
                                            "Legislative Sentinel"said reports to be made up from
                                            the columns of some daily newpaper printed in the town
                                            of Indianapolis, and laid upon the desks of members as
                                            fast as they shall complete sixteen pages in double
                                            newspaper column; provided the cost of the same shall
                                            not exceed one dollar per copy.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Which was withdrawn on Mr. EDWARDS' motion to take up a similar
                                concurrent resolution from the Senate. 
                            After debate, the resolution was rejected, by yeas 37, nays 55, as
                                follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Baird, Blythe, Bowmon,
                                            Clements, Carr, Davis, Tobbins,Early, Eastham, Edwards,
                                            Firestone, Gifford, Griffin, Hancock, Harney, Jeffries,
                                            Jordan, Kempf, Lawhead, Massey, Merrifield, Murray,
                                            Newton, Parrett, Scott, Shockley, Smith of Perry,
                                            Snyder, Stanfield, Sullivan, Tebbs, Thompson of Madison,
                                            Treadway, Turpie, Wheeler, Whiteman, and Mr. Speaker -
                                            37.
                                        NAYS. - Messrs. Austin, Boxley,
                                            Branham, Brothertor, Cavins, Clark, Claypool,Clayton,
                                            Collier, Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Dougherty, Durham,
                                            Eordyce, Gregory, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton
                                            of Boone, Hamilton of Wayne, Harrison, Hartley, Hunter,
                                            Johnston, Jones, Kelly, Lewis, McLain, Major, Mansfield,
                                            Mellett, Miller, Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker
                                            of Warren, Nelson, Parks, Prosser, Ritter, Robinson,
                                            Row, Rynerson, Sherman, Shelds, Shull, Smith of Miami,
                                            Stanley, Stiles, Summers, Thompson of Elkhart, Usrey,
                                            Waterman, Whetzel, Wildman and Wood55.

                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. STANFIELD submitted a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing
                                a select committee of five to investigate the Sinking fund. 
                            Mr. STILES submitted a resolution, which was rejected, looking to an
                                amendment of the Appraisement laws, so as to extend the time for
                                making appraisements and to provide for a Board of Equalization.
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON [Mr. Davis in the Chair] submitted a resolution,
                                which was adopted, requiring the Committee on Education to consider
                                the propriety of erecting a female department of the Indiana
                                University, on University square, in the town of Indianapolis.
                            Mr. EDWARDS - a resolution, which was adopted - requesting the
                                Superintendent of Public Instruction to report the names of the
                                Trustees of the Indiana University.
                            The House then took a recess till 2 o'clock.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. STILES AFTERNOON SESSION.The SPEAKER announced the following
                                members (on the part of the House of Representatives) of the joint
                                select committee on the subject of geological survey, viz: Messrs.
                                Smith, of Perry; Treadway, Stanfield, Dobbins, Davis, Harrison,
                                Dougherty, Branham, Wildman.
                            Mr. SHULL moved to reconsider the vote of this morning rejecting the
                                Senate's resolution to authorize 600 copies of Drapier's Legislative
                                Reports of the proceedings and debates of the present session,
                            Which motion was laid on the table, on a division - affirmative 38,
                                negative 27. 
                            
                                RESOLUTIONS.
                                By Mr. TURPIE. Inquiring into the pro-priety of requiring
                                    Railroads to be fenced.
                                By Mr. GRIFFIN. Inquiring into the amount of the Swamp Land Fund
                                    on hand and chargeable to Lake county.
                                By Mr. HAMILTON, of Wayne. Claims for the specific appropriation
                                    bill to behanded in ten days before the adjournment of the
                                    session.
                                By Mr. MERRIFIELD. Directing the principal clerk to deliver the
                                    journals of the House to the Secretary of State. Rejected - yeas
                                    44, nays 44.
                                By Mr. HARNEY. To consider the Temperance bills next Tuesday at 2
                                    o'clock, in Committee of the Whole.
                                By Mr. MURRAY. Inquiring into the expediency of selling the
                                    Governor's Circle, in the town of Indianapolis.
                                By Mr. GIFFORD. Inquiring whether supervisors should include
                                    persons of color (who are residents of the State and not
                                    otherwise exempt) amongst the number of those who are to work on
                                    the highways.
                                By Mr. BOWMAN. Inquiring into the expediency of amending the 34th
                                    section of the act for opening and vacating high ways,approved
                                    June 17,1852.
                                [The SPEAKER here named the select committee on Mr. Stanfield's
                                    motion of this day, viz: Messrs. Stanfield, Davis, Blythe,
                                    Smith, of Perry.
                                By Mr. ROBINSON. Inquiring into the least amount of bail which
                                    should be required of persons charged with felony. Rejected.
                                By Mr. Speaker GORDON. Directing inquiry into the amount of money
                                    audited in favor of . Henry Coburn, and the present incumbent of
                                    the office of Clerk of the Supreme Court - set
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                
                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 29 1859.
                        No. 5.
                    
                    
                        
                            forth by items. Also, into the amounts of money audited in favor of
                                Governor Wright and Governor Willard.
                            By Mr. RITTER. Authorizing a clerk for the  Committee on
                                    Public Expenditures. Rejected.
                            By Mr. PARKS. Directions to the Committee on
                                Roads, in regard to the pay of Supervisors.
                        
                        
                            BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                            By Mr. CLEMENTS. Authorizing the Doorkeeper to subscribe for 500
                                copies of Drapier's Brevier Legislative Reportsthe Senate adopting a
                                similar resolution.
                            Mr. STILES moved to lay this resolution on the table.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS demanded the yeas and nays, and the vote resulting -
                                yeas 36, nays 55the question recurred on the adoption of the
                                resolution.
                            Mr. RITTER complained that his proposition to allow the
                                    Committee on Public Expenditure a Clerk,
                                which would only cost the State some $60, for the purpose of finding
                                out how some ten thousand dollars have been taken from the Treasury,
                                had been just voted down by gentlemen who were now proposing to
                                expend a thousand dollars for taking reports perfectly useless to
                                our constituents; and they were determined to persist in this, and
                                wear out the patience of the House until they should obtain it; an I
                                when we stand up and oppose their resolution, they tell us we spend
                                more money by the consumption of time than would authorize these
                                reports. He made the point that the resolution was out of order.
                                Define the House had neglected a similar resolution. 
                            The SPEAKER decided the resolution in order.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, proposed to amend, by adding a provision,
                                "That each member pay for the number of copies he may wish, out of
                                his own private funds.
                            The SPEAKER. That is incompatible with the object of the resolution,
                                and out of order.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS demanded the previous question, and there being a
                                second, and the main question being ordered by consent, the vote on
                                the adoption of the resolution, resulted - yeas 45, nays 43, as
                                follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Black, Blythe, Bowman,
                                            Carr, Clayton, Clements, Collier, Davia, Dobbins,
                                            Durham, Early, Eastham, Edwards, Firestone, Gifford,
                                            Gregory, Griffin, Hancock, Hartley, Jordan, Kelly,
                                            Kempf, Lawhead, Lewis, McLain, Massey, Merrifield,
                                            Murray, Nelson, Newton, Parks, Parrett. Prosser, Scott,
                                            Shockley, Shull, Snyder,Stanley, Sullivan, Summers,
                                            Tebbs, Thompson of Madison, Turpie, Usrey, Wheeler -
                                            45.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Boyd, Boxley,
                                            Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark, Colgrove, Com.stock,
                                            Cotton. Davidson, Dougherty, Fordyce, Hall of Grant,
                                            Hall of Rush, Hamilton ot Boone, Hamilton of Wayne,
                                            Harrison. Hunter, Jeffries, Johnston, Jones, Major,
                                            Mansfield, Mellett, Miller, Martin, Nebeker of
                                            Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Ritter, Robinson, Row,
                                            Rynerson, Sherman, Shields, Smith of Miami, Stiles,
                                            Thompson of Elkhart, Whetzel, Whiteman, Willman, Wood,
                                            and Mr. Speaker43.
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the resolution was adopted.
                            On motion by Mr. CAVINS the vote on Mr, Ritter's proposition for a
                                Clerk to the Committee on Public Expenditures was
                                reconsidered, and the Clerk was allowed.
                            On motion by Mr. AUSTIN, it was resolved that the Auditor of State be
                                requested to send in his report for the year 1858. 
                        
                        
                            KANSAS.
                            Mr. SHIELDS submitted a resolution to the effect, "that that part of
                                the English bill known as the population clause, discriminating as
                                it does in favor of a Constitution conceived in fraud, born in
                                perjury, and baptized by a wholesale violation of principle, should
                                be repealed, and that we respectfully request all persons in
                                Congress from the State of Indiana to vote for its repeal."
                            Mr. DAVIS. If the gentleman will make it a joint resolution and
                                strike out the toploftical language, I will vote for it.
                            Mr. SHIELDS acquiesced.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY proposed to amend by striking out the repealing
                                portion, and inserting words to the effect that the Territory of
                                Kansas be admitted as a State, without regard to population,
                                whenever she applies with a Republican Constitution.
                            Mr. GIFFORD. We have heretofore passed a resolution to nearly the
                                same effect. 
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD moved to lay the resolution and amendment on the
                                table.
                            Mr. MURRAY. Which is the Democratic side of this question.
                                [Laughter.]The House refused to lay on the table, by yeas 34, nays
                                51and the question recurred on Mr. Dougherty's amendment
                                modified.
                            Mr . SHIELDS. I accept the amendment as additional matter.
                            Mr.DOUGHERTY explained his views at length, and his position on this
                                question before his constituents. His modification was by way of
                                substitute.
                            Mr. GIFFORD also defined his position to this question - insisting
                                that there was no urgency for action.
                            Mr. MELLETT moved to lay the amendment on the table. 
                            
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 49, nays 40.The previous question was
                                demanded and ordered on the adoption of the original resolution, and
                                pending its force - 
                            Mr. RITTER desired to amend the phraseology.
                            Mr. DAVIS and others objected, insisting that the phraseology ought
                                to remain, because the House had refused to amend.
                            The vote resulted - yeas 49, nays 29, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Boxley,
                                            Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark, Colgrove,
                                            Collier,Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Edwards, Fordyce,
                                            Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Hush, Hamilton
                                            of Boone, Hamilton of Wayne, Harney, Harrison, Hunter,
                                            Jeffries, Johnston, Jones, Mansfield, Mellett, Miller,
                                            Murray, Martin, Nebeker of Vermilllon, Nebeker of
                                            Warren, Parks, Ritter, Robinson, Row, Rynerson, Scott,
                                            Sherman, Shields, Smith of Miami, Stiles. Thompson of
                                            Elkhart, Treadway, Waterman, Whetzel, Whiteman, Wildman,
                                            and Mr. Speaker - 49.
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Bowman,Carr, Claypool,
                                            Clayton, Clements, Dobbins, Early, Eastham, Firestone,
                                            Gifford, Hancock, Hartley, Jordan, Kelly, Kempf, Lewis,
                                            McLain, Merrifieid, Nelson, Parrett, Prosser,Shockley,
                                            Shull, Snyder, Stanley, Sullivan, Summers, Tebbs,
                                            Thompson of Madison, Usrey and Wood - 29.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Messrs. Black, Blythe, Boyd, Davis, Dougherty, Durham, Major, Massey,
                                Newton, Turpie, Wheeler and perhaps others, being present, and
                                refusing to vote.
                            So the resolution was rejected for want of a constitutional
                                majority.
                            Mr. COLGROVE. Is the resolution subject to be called up again?
                            The SPEAKER. Yes, by a majority.
                            Mr. DAVIS submitted a joint resolution to the following effect:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,&c. That our Senators in
                                            Congress be instructed, and our Representatives be
                                            requested to vote for the admission of Kansas into the
                                            Union as a State, without regard to the population, as
                                            soon as the people thereof shall desire to come in under
                                            a republican constitution, adopted by a majority of the
                                            voters of said Territory.
                                        Resolved further,That the Governor be
                                            requested to forward a copy of the foregoing joint
                                            resolution to each of our Senators and Representatives
                                            in Congress.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. JORDON proposed to amend, by adding to the first resolution these
                                words: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                             "Believing that she now has, or
                                                will have, before the people can form a constitution
                                                and apply for admission, a population sufficient to
                                                entitle her to admission under the English
                                                bill."
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. DAVIS moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                            Mr. MELLETT-the bill and the amendment.
                            Mr. DAVIS and Mr. JORDON demanded the yeas and nays, which
                                resultedyeas 47, nays 41, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Bowman, Boxley,
                                            Brotherton, Clayton, Clements, Colgrove, Comstock,
                                            Cotton, Davidson, Early, Eastham,Edwards, Fordyce,
                                            Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush. Hamilton of Boone,
                                            Hamilton of Wayne, Harney, Jeffries, Kempf, McLain,
                                            Major, Mansfield, Miller, Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion,
                                            Nebeker of Warren,-Parks, Prosser, Ritter, Robinson,
                                            Rynerson, Scott, Sherman, Smith of Miami, Snyder,
                                            Stiles, Sullivan, Thompson of Elkhart, Treadway, Turpie,
                                            Whetzel, Whiteman, and Wildman - 47.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Blythe, Boyd, Branham,
                                            Carr, Cavins, Clark,Claypool, Collier. Davis, Dobbins,
                                            Dougherty, Durham, Firestone, Gifford, Gregory, Hartley,
                                            Johnston, Jones, Jordan, Kelley, Lawhead, Lewis,
                                            Massey,Mellett, Merrifield, Murray, Nelson, Newton,
                                            Parrett, Row, Shockley, Stanley, Summers, Tebbs,
                                            Thompson of Malison, Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler, Wood and
                                            Mr. Speaker - 41.
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the resolution and amendment were laid on the table.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY submitted a joint resolution to the following
                                effect:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,&cThat our Senators in
                                            Congress be Instructed, and our Representatives
                                            requested to vote for the admission of Kansas into the
                                            Union, either as a Free or Slave State, as her people
                                            may determine, with a constitution approved by her
                                            people, and without regard to population; and that the
                                            Governor be requested to transmit a copy of this
                                            resolution, to each of our Senators and Representatives
                                            in Congress.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed to amend, by striking out and inserting these
                                words:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the victorious and
                                            harmonious Democracy be permitted to hold a caucus
                                            to-night, at early candle lighting, for the purpose of
                                            re-organizing their forces [Laughter.]
                                    
                                
                            
                            The SPEAKER: That is out of order.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS demanded the previous question, and, there being a
                                second, the main question was ordered.
                            Mr. COLGROVE demanded a call of the House.
                            The SPEAKER: We are under the previous question.
                            On motion by Mr. AUSTIN, and on a division of affirmative 40,
                                negative 37 - 
                            The House adjourned.
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             SATURDAY, JANUARY 22, 1859. 
                        
                        The journal of yesterday was read.
                        
                             PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS presented a petition from sundry printers of the City of
                                Vincennes, praying against reducing the prices now paid for public
                                printing, and asking that all bids for doing said printing at a
                                lower rate, be treated as such designing schemes deserve; which was
                                read and referred to the Committee on
                                Printing.
                            Mr. MARCH presented a petition from Minor Turner, of the county of
                                Delaware, praying for $190 75 as compensation for pursuing a felon;
                                which was referred to the Committee on Claims,
                        
                        
                             REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. HENDRY from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Murray's bill (S. 15) to amend the 103d section of a law reform
                                act approved June 17,1852, and recommended its indefinite
                                postponement.
                            Mr. BENNETT desired to make a minority report in a day or two, and
                                for that purpose moved to lay the bill on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. MARCH, from the same committee returned Mr. Green's bill (S. 19)
                                providing for an enumeration to be made of white inhabitants over 21
                                years of age, in 1860, and every five years thereafter; and
                                recommended its passage.
                            The report was concurred in by consent, and the bill passed the
                                second reading.
                             Mr. HEFFREN, from the same committee, returned a resolution having
                                reference to abandoned plank and other roads,recommending that it
                                lie on the table, as a bill had already been introduced covering the
                                entire ground contemplated in the resolution.
                            
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. SLACK, from the same committee, returned Mr. Wallace's bill (S.
                                20) providing for and regulating the payment of costs occasioned by
                                the prosecution and conviction of persons charged with felony, and
                                recommended its indefinite postponement.
                            Mr. WALLACE hoped the report would not be concurred in. Innocent men
                                have been compelled to attend upon trials of persona accused of
                                felory, and their trouble and expense have all amounted to nothing
                                to them - they have never had compensation therefor.
                            Mr. WEIR hoped this bill would not be postponed indefinitely. He
                                believed it just as much the duty of the State to pay those fees as
                                to pay any debt she owes.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON was opposed to the bill. He thought the tendency of the
                                bill would be to make witnesses swear hard in order to get their
                                fees.
                            Mr. GOODING desired that the bill should not be indefinitely
                                postponed The bill ought to be amended so as to provide that where
                                the convict has an estate liable to execution, the costs should be
                                collected by execution, but failing in that, the costs should be
                                paid out of the labor of the convict in the State Prison.
                            Mr. ANTHONY defended the report of the committee, and urged
                                concurrence therein.
                            Mr. HEFFREN was opposed to the provisions contemplated in the bill,
                                and hoped the bill would be indefinitely postponed.
                            Mr. CONNER contended that the bill was not perfect, but insisted that
                                some law upon this subject should be passed by the Legislature. He
                                moved to recommit, with instructions to so amend as to prevent the
                                transfer or assignment of costs, that the defendant's property shall
                                first be reported to for the payment of such costs, and to inquire
                                into the expediency of providing for the payment of costs under
                                proper restrictions, in state cases where the defendant is
                                acquitted.
                            The PRESIDENT [Mr. Slack in the chair] decided the amendment out of
                                order.
                            Mr. WALLACE appealed from the decision of the Chair.
                            The PRESIDENT. Send up your appeal in writing.
                            On motion by Mr. BLAIR, the appeal was laid on the table before the
                                appellant had time to reduce it to writing.
                            Mr. WALLACE objected to such summary proceeding, come from whom it
                                may.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON saw no necessity for any had feeling. He thought the
                                decision of the Chair was correct.
                            The report was then concurred in.
                            Mr. BENNETT, from the same committee, returned his bill (S. 35) to
                                amend section 433 of a law reform act, approved June 18, 1852, and
                                recommended its passage.
                            Mr. BENNETT desired to have the present law so amended as that
                                sheriffs shall be compelled to levy on all property alike, whether
                                the party against whom the execntion is issued, be the officer's
                                political friend or foe. He declared his willingness to vote for an
                                increase of the homestead law from $300 to $500, or any other
                                reasonable amount.
                            Mr. STEVENS moved to concur in the report with an amendment, giving
                                the sheriff nine months to make the money and return executions for
                                the years 1859 and 1860, and thereafter six months.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the amendment was laid on the table - yeas
                                21, nays 19.
                            Mr. MARCH had heard no complaint of the law as it exists, and thought
                                it bad policy to change the law in relation to debtor and, creditor
                                at a time when there is no demand for it.
                            On motion, the bill was laid on the table.
                            Mr. ANTHONY, from the same committee, returned his bill (S. 20) to
                                amend section 9 of an act to exempt property from sale in certain
                                cases, approved February 17, 1852, and recommended its passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill passed the second
                                reading.
                            Mr. WALLACE, from the same committee, returned his bill (S. 46) to
                                amend sec. 4 of an act providing for the election, fixing the
                                compensation and prescribing the duties of the Attorney General of
                                the State of Indiana, and recommended its passage.
                            The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. WAGNER, from the Committee on Education,
                                returned Mr. Bobbs' bill (S. 25) to provide for the redemption or
                                purchase of bank bonds of Indiana, State stocks, &c.. with an
                                amendment and recommended its passage.
                            On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER it was made the special order for Tuesday
                                next at 10 o'clock A. M.
                            [A message from the House announced the passage by that body of a
                                joint resolution (H. R, 13) relative to the construction of a canal
                                at the Falls of the Ohio river.]
                            Mr. WAGNER, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned Mr. Brown's bill (S. 32) for. the better protection of
                                growing cranberries and to prohibit the sale or purchase thereof in
                                the time therein specified, and recommended its passage.
                            The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. TURNER, from the Swamp Land Committee,
                                returned his bill (S. 13) to amend sections 20, 28, 32, 35 and 51 of
                                an act regulating the sale of swamp lands, approved May 29,1852, and
                                recommended its passage.
                            The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            
                        
                        
                             NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced and severally passed the first
                                reading:
                            By Mr. ODELL, (No. 103) authorizing County Boards to hear and
                                determine complaints against plank, gravel, turnpike or McAdamized
                                roads.
                            By Mr. MILLER, (No. 104) in relation to abandoned plank, McAdamized
                                or chartered roads.
                            By Mr. WAGNER, (No. 105) prescribing the forms to be used in criminal
                                cases.
                            By Mr. HEFFREN, (No. 106) providing for the relief of purchasers of
                                real estate at Sheriff's sales under executions issued on judgments
                                     against services on
                                recognizances, where such had been taken after the Revised Statutes
                                of 1852 took effect.
                            By Mr. STUDABAKER, (No 107) to authorize assessors of real property
                                to administer all oaths required to be administered in the discharge
                                of their duties.
                            By Mr. RICE (No. 108) to amend sections 4, 5, 18, 20, 28 and 32 of
                                the law regulating general elections; approved June 7, 1852; to
                                repeal sections 29 and 30 of said act, and adding a provision
                                supplementary thereto.
                            [Mr. WAGNER, by leave, submitted a report from the Committee on
                                Education, embracing a history of the sinking fund, which was laid
                                on the table without reading, and 200 copies ordered to be
                                printed.]
                            By Mr. JOHNSTON, (No. 109) to amend sections 1 and 2 of an act to
                                provide compensation to owners of animals killed or injured by any
                                car, locomotive or carriage of any railroad company in this State,
                                approved March 1, 1853.
                            By Mr. COOPER, (No. 110) to prohibit Clerks of Circuit Courts and
                                their deputies, and Clerks of Common Pleas Courts an i their
                                deputies from practicing law in the courts in which they are clerks
                                and deputies.
                            By Mr. FISK, (No 111) to amend section 6 of the 37th chapter of the
                                revised code ot 1852, respecting costs in criminal cases.
                            By Mr. BOBBS, (No. 112) to amend an act repealing all laws in force
                                for the incorporation of cities, and to provide for the
                                incorporation of cities, approved March 9, 1857, and to provide for
                                the collection of city taxes delinquent alter the first Monday in
                                March, 1859.
                            [On motion by Mr. COBB,it was resolved that when the Senate adjourn,
                                it stand adjourned till Monday, 2 o'clock P.M.]
                            By Mr. CONLEY, (No. 113) to provide for stationery and postage for
                                members [$10 of each to each member] of the General Assembly,
                                providing for employing Reporters, and for the publication of the
                                proceedings in certain newspapers, and for the taking of the
                                same.
                            By the Committee on Education, (No. 114) to
                                authorize the State Board of Education to purchase and place in
                                county and township libraries bound copies of the Indiana School Journal.
                        
                        
                            BANK OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
                            Mr. CONLEY, by leave, offered the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,Mr. CONLEY, by leave, offered
                                            the following: Resolved, That the special committee to
                                            whom was referred Senate bill (No. 42) are hereby
                                            directed to inquire into the management of the Bank of
                                            the State of Indiana, and the conduct and transactions
                                            of its officers during and since its organization, and
                                            that said committee is hearby empowered to send for
                                            persons and papers if deemed necessary by a majority of
                                            said committee.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. CONLEY said there were indications that this concern has not
                                been properly conducted, and in the event of the discovery of
                                misconduct, this resolution is offered in order that we may have the
                                proper sources of development. If there has boon no mismanagement it
                                world increase the credit of the institution with the people; and
                                these ultra bank men should be the last to oppose the adoption of
                                the resolution.
                            On a motion to lay the resolution on the table, the yeas and nays
                                were demanded, and bring ordered and taken, resulted - yeas, 18,
                                nays 17 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Bennett,
                                            Blair, Bobbs, Cobbt Conner, Cooper, Cravens, Craven,
                                            Green, Hamilton, Heffren, Hill, Johnston, Odell,
                                            Stevens, Turner and Wagner-18.
                                        NAYS. - Messrs. Conley, Fisk,
                                            Qoodinjr, Hargrove, Hendry, Jennings, Kinley, Line,
                                            Lomax, McClure, March, Miller, Rice, Shoemaker, Slack,
                                            Thompson and Wallace-17.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. CRAVENS, when his name was called, said he thought the
                                proposition was intended to injure the currency of the country.
                            Mr. GOODING, when his name was called, said the repeal of this bank
                                charter might effect the currency somewhat, but currency or no
                                currency, he should vote for the repeal, and let consequences take
                                care of themselves. It were better to have war, pestilence and
                                famine, than to sustain such an institution. The honor of Indi an a
                                requires the repeal of that charter.
                            Mr. LINE, when his name was called, said he was not here to cast his
                                vote with a view to make war upon any institution of our State, but
                                when the question comes up here to investigate this matter, it
                                seemed out of place to refuse.
                            Mr. WAGNER, when his name was called, said that, by his vote, he did
                                not express an opinion in favor of covering up any mismanagement on
                                the part of any bank. He took the ground that the Senate had no
                                right to presume matters were going wrong, unless there were charges
                                made.
                            Mr. WALLACE, when his name was called, said it was contended, as a
                                reason why we can not repeal this charter, that it is a contract; if
                                it is, who are the parties to it? The State of Indiana and certain
                                citizens? If it is a contract, and the State is a party to it, we
                                unquestionably have the right to make this examination. He was in
                                favor of an examination, whenever we can do it lawfully.
                            So the resolution lies upon the table.
                        
                        
                            DOG LAW.
                             DOG LAW. Mr. LINE, (by leave) from the Committee on
                                    Agriculture, returned Mr. Fisk's bill (S. 33) to tax
                                dogs, and indemnify owners of sheep, killed or injured by dogs or
                                wolves, with amendments, and recommended its passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                        
                        
                             PUBLIC PRINTING.
                            Mr. WAGNER, (by leave) presented a petition similar to the first one
                                offered this day, praying against the reduction of the prices paid
                                for public printing, and signed by several printers of Williamsport,
                                which was also referred to the Committee on
                                    Printing.
                            And then the Senate adjourned.
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             SATURDAY, JANUARY 22, 1859. 
                        
                        Messrs. Knowlton, Stanfield and Sullivan had leave of absence till
                            Tuesday.
                        
                            OHIO FALLS CANAL.
                            Mr. CARR asked and obtained leave to submit a joint resolution (No.
                                13) relative to the construction of a new canal at the Falls of the
                                Ohio river, on the Indiana side.
                            The joint resolution was adopted - yeas 73, nays 0. 
                        
                        
                        
                             TESTIMONY
                            Mr. DAVIS (by unanimous consent) returned from the Judiciary
                                    Committee Mr. Blythe'a bill (28) providing the use of
                                evidence in perpetuating testimony, &c., recommending its
                                passage.
                            The report was concurred in aad the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                        
                        
                            DIVORCE.
                            Mr. DAVIS, from the same committee, returned the resolution of
                                inquiry into the expediency of requiring both parties to an action
                                in divorce, to have a residence of one year, with the expression of
                                opinion that further legislation in this direction is
                                inexpedient.
                            The report was concurred in.
                        
                        
                            HIGHWAYS.
                            Mr. PROSSER (under a suspension of the order of business) introduced
                                a bill (No. 95) to legalize the location, vacation and change of
                                public highways, which was passed the first reading.
                            Mr. P. said: I have introduced that for the purpose of curing defects
                                in the location of our highways. Owing to the manner in which roads
                                have been located, there is scarcely any road that is legal, and the
                                roads are shut up and obstructed. If the supervisor is indicted, the
                                indictment can not be maintained, and consequently our roads are
                                generally in bad order. I know of no better way of coming at the
                                remedy than by legalizing the roads that have been located. You are
                                aware, sir, that unless the width of the road is specified in the
                                order for location, it is not a lawful road, under the decisions of
                                the Courts, and there are very few roads having the width so
                                specified. I move a suspension of the rules to allow the bill to be
                                read the second time now.
                            The motion was agreed to, and the bill referred to the
                                    Committee on Roads.
                            On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, the orders were suspended generally for
                                the
                        
                        
                            INTRODUCTION OF BILLS.
                             By Mr. HANCOCK, (No. 96) to repeal the second section of the act to
                                authorize new counties, &c.
                            By Mr. RITTER, (No. 97) to provide for the election of a
                                Superintendent of Public Printing, prescribing his duties,
                                compensation, term of office, &c.
                            By Mr. WHETZEL, (No. 98) to amend the Supervisor's act of June 18,
                                1852.
                            By Mr. EDWARDS, (No. 99) to authorize the publication of certain
                                decisions of the Supreme Court, and the purchase of 600 copies
                                thereof by the State.
                            By Mr. DOBBINS, (No. 100) for the appointment by the Governor of a
                                State Geologist, &c. [12,000 for the survey; $5 a day;
                                assistants $3 a day when in actual service.]
                            By Mr. STILES, (No. 101) to regulate practice in civil cases in the
                                courts of this State, in taking exceptions to the overruling of
                                demurrers.
                            By Mr. JEFFRIE3, (No. 102) authorizing all persons to travel on
                                McAdamized, plank and turnpike roads free of toll, going to and
                                returning from worship on the Sabbath day.
                            By Mr. EARLY, (No. 103) to amend the 110th section of the school law,
                                and to legalize certain assignments.
                            By Mr. SHULL, (No. 104) to amend section 7 of the act to authorize
                                the construction of levees, dams, &c., approved June 7, 1852.
                                [Mr. S. stated this bill was identical with his bill (83), which had
                                been read twice and referred to a select committee, and thence lost
                                in the coat pocket of one of the members of that committee, the coat
                                included ]
                            On a motion by Mr. CLEMENTS, it was twice read and referred again to
                                the said select committee.
                            By Mr. JONES, (No. 105) to compel the owners of town lots to grade
                                and pave the same, and providing penalty for violation of this
                                act.
                            By Mr.KELLEY, (No. 106) to amend the 113th section of the assessment
                                act.
                            By Mr. WATERMAN, (No. 107) to prescribe that the amount of the
                                Sinking Fund on loan or on hand, shall be considered the principal
                                of said fund, and after payment of the interest on the Bank bonds,
                                to appropriate the interest on the balance toward Common Schools,
                                and repealing conflicting laws.
                            By Mr. PARKS, (No. 108) for the protection of wild cranberries
                                growing on public, State, and non-resident lands in this State, and
                                providing penalty for violation of this act.
                            By Mr. COTTON, (No. 109) to provide for and secure the rights of
                                married women in real estate.
                            By Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, (No. 110) to amend the 76th section of the
                                misdemeanor act of June 14, 1852.
                            By Mr. MAJOR, (No. 111) concerning licenses to keep ferries; to vend
                                foreign merchandize; to exhibit any caravan, circus, rope or wire
                                dancing, legerdeman, ventriloquism, puppet show, concert, theatrical
                                performance, or any other exhibition, of whatever name or
                                description; to carry on the business of stock and exchange broker ;
                                to regulate the amount of license therefor; to prescribe the duties
                                herein of of the Board of County Commissioners, the County Treasurer
                                and Auditor, Justice of the Peace and Constable, and the person
                                applying for license; relative to the application for, and the
                                issuing of such licenses; the disposal of moneys arising from such
                                licenses, and the remedies for violation of the provisions of this
                                act.
                            By Mr. BOWMAN, (No. 112) to amend the 9th section of the act for the
                                enforcement of the thirteenth Article of the Constitution of the
                                State of Indiana: [prohibiting the importation of negroes and
                                mulattoes by railroad.]
                            By Mr. MERRIFIELD, (No. 113) to amend section 5 of the Supervisor's
                                act of June 18, 1852; which bills were severally passed the first
                                reading.
                        
                        
                             ADMISSION OF KANSAS
                             The SPEAKER announced the order of unfinished business, viz: the
                                question on the adoption of Mr. Dougherty's joint resolution (12) in
                                relation to the admission of Kansas - the previous question having
                                been demanded and seconded, and the main question ordered
                                thereon.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY asked the unanimous consent of the House to pass the
                                subject over inform ally, and
                                make this and and Mr. Shield's joint resolution (10) the special
                                order for Friday next. ["Consent," "consent''"No consent"]
                            Mr. MURRAY. I hope the House will consent.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren. Will it not still be under the previous
                                question?
                            The SPEAKER. It will.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, Then I move to reconsider the order for the main
                                question.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY and Mr. FIRESTONE demanded the yeas and nays, which
                                being ordered and taken, resulted - yeas 18, nays 44 - no quorum
                                voting.
                            Mr. AUSTIN moved a call of the House, but - The SPEAKER now decided,
                                no motion in order, nor anything but the vote, under the force of
                                the previous question. The vote was taken and resulted - yeas 28,
                                nays 28 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YAES - Messrs. Black, Boyd, Carr,
                                            Cavins, Claypool, Comstock, Dougherty, Firestone,
                                            Gifford, Jones, Kelley, Lawhead, Lewis, Major, Massey,
                                            Merrifield, Nelson. Newton, Prosser, Row, Sherman,
                                            Shockley, Shull, Snyder, Stanley, Waterman, Wheeler and
                                            Wood2 - 8. 
                                        NAYS -Messrs. Austin. Boxley, Branham,
                                            Brotherton, Clark, Colgrove, Davidson, Fordyce, Hamilton
                                            of Boone, Hamilton of Wayne, Harrison, Hartley,
                                            Jeffries, Johnston, Mansfield, Murray, Nebeker of
                                            Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Ritter, Robinson, Scott,
                                            Smith of Miami, Thompson of Elkhart, Treadway,Usrey,
                                            Weetzel, Wildman and Mr. Speaker - 28. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            No quorum voting
                            Mr. PARKS desired to record his vote, but - 
                            The hour of 11 o'clock having arrived, the Speaker declared there was
                                no result on the queston, and under the standing rule, adjourned the
                                House till Monday, 2 o'clock P. M.
                        
                    
                    



                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            UNITED STATES SENATORS.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR announced the special order for this hour, [2
                                o'clock]being Mr. Line's joint resolution, (No. 6) instructing our
                                Senators and requesting our Representatives in Congress to vote for
                                a law fixing the time, place and manner of electing United States
                                Senators in the different States.
                            Mr. ODELL moved that the resolution be referred to the Committee on
                                Federal Relations.
                            The motion was agreed to by consent. 
                        
                        
                            PETITION.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER. presented a petition from sundry citizens of Adams
                                county, against reducing prices paid for the public printing which,
                                on his motion, was referred to the Committee on
                                    Printing without reading. 
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. HEFFREN,from the Finance Committee, returned
                                his bill (S. 30) to provide for the transfer of certificates of
                                State stocks, &c., and to prevent the fraudulent issue thereof,
                                and recommending its passage. He moved that it be considered as
                                engrossed and read the third time now.
                            The motion was agreed to, the bill read the third time, and finally
                                passed by yeas 37, nays 5.
                            Mr. BEESON, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned Mr. Carnahan's bill (S. 38) to enable industrious, indigent
                                persons, who are unable to give security, to rent land, and
                                recommended its passage.
                            The bill was read the second time by title and ordered to be
                                engrossed. 
                        
                        
                            CHANGING THE TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to suspend the order of business and take up his bill
                                (S. 60) fixing the time of holding Circuit Courts in the 11th
                                Judiciary Circuit.
                            The motion was agreed to, and the bill being on the third reading was
                                finally passed the Senate, yeas 44, nays 0.
                            Mr. BOBBS moved to further suspend the order of business and take up
                                his bill (S. 49) fixing the time of holding courts in the 5th
                                Judicial Circuit.
                            The motion was agreed to, and the bill was referred to a special
                                committee of five, which the LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR makes to consist of
                                Senators Bobbs, Jennings, Gooding, Blair and Murray.

                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced and severally passed the first
                                reading:
                            By Mr. GREEN, (No. 115) to amend section 327, art. 18, chap. 1,
                                Revised Statutes of 1852.
                            By Mr.HEFFREN, (No. 116) fixing the times of holding Courts in the
                                Second Judicial Circuit.On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the rules were
                                suspendedyeas 41, nays 0the bill read a second time by its title,
                                and referred to a select committee of three, which the LIEUTENANT
                                GOVERNOR makes to consist of Senators Heffren, Lomax and Cobb.
                            By Mr. MARCH, (No. 117) to amend section 238 of a law reform act
                                approved June 18, 1852, and to provide for the examination and
                                taking the depositions of parties as witnesses in civil causes and
                                proceedings.
                            By Mr. MURRAY, (No. 118) to amend section 1 of an act to apportion
                                Senators and Representatives for the next four years, approved March
                                9, 1857.
                            By Mr. WALLACE, (No. 119) to amend section 5 of an act concerning the
                                partition of land.
                            By Mr. BENNETT, (No. 120) to amend an act defining misdemeanors,
                                approved February 9, 1857.
                            By Mr. LINE, (No. 121) to protect exhibitors of articles or animals
                                at Agricultural Fairs, and to punish offenders against certain rules
                                of Agricultural Societies.
                            On motion by Mr. LINE, the rules were suspended - yeas 44, nays 0the
                                bill read the second time by title, and referred to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture.
                            By Mr WEIR, (No. 122) supplemental to an act to provide for the
                                government and discipline of the State Prison, approved March 3,
                                1855.
                            By Mr. GREEN, (No, 123) to amend sections 142 and 143 of an act to
                                provide for the assessment of real and personal property, approved
                                June 21, 1852.
                            By Mr STUDABAKER, (No. 124) to amend section 103 of an act to provide
                                for the assessment of real and personal property, approved June
                                21,1852 
                        
                        
                        
                             PAPER CURRENCY.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN the bill (H.R. 12) having reference to
                                shinplasters, was taken from the table, and read the second
                                time.
                            Mr. MARCH proposed an amendment providing that any person who shall
                                knowingly circulate any broken bank bill without disclosing such
                                knowledge to the recipient, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
                                and upon conviction be fined not less than $10 nor more than
                                $1,000.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the bill and pending amendment were
                                referred to the Committee on Banks. 
                        
                        
                            CORRECTING THE JOURNAL.
                            Mr. HEFFREN, by leave, submitted a resolution correcting the journal
                                of the Joint Convention of the 14th inst., which elected State
                                Prison Directors, and allowing them to determine according to law
                                the length of time for which they were severally elected.
                            The resolution was opposed by Senators Gooding, Anthony, Jones, Green
                                and Murray, and supported by Senators Wallace, Bennett, Steele and
                                Studabaker, each in a very few remarks.
                            Mr. CRAVENS thought the only way to correct the journal would be for
                                the two Houses to meet and do so in Joint Convention. He was willing
                                that the resolution should pass, but was of opinion it would be of
                                no binding effect.The resolution was rejected - yeas 22, nays
                                22.
                        
                        
                            BILLS ON THE SECOND READING.
                            The following bills were read the second time:
                            Mr. March's (S. 48) to repeal the act creating the office of Attorney
                                General of the State - referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                            Mr. Hargrove's (S. 50) to amend section 16 of an act concerning the
                                partition of lands, approved May 20,1852referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr. Wagner's (S 51) for the batter protection of lawful assemblages
                                of the peopleordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Carnahan's (S. 53) authorizing County Commissioners to award
                                compensation to persons bringing fugitives to justice - referred to
                                the Finance Committee.
                            Mr. Wagner's (S. 54) to amend an act authorizing the formation of new
                                counties and changing county boundaries, approved March 7,1857
                                referred to a select committee of five, which the PRESIDENT [Mr.
                                Murray in the Chair] makes to consist of Senators Wagner, Rice,
                                Murray, Heffren and Steele.
                            [A message from the House announced the passage of a joint resolution
                                instructing our Senators and requesting our Representatives in
                                Congress, to demand $500 a year rent for the use of rooms in the
                                State House by the Federal Courts.]Mr. Conner's (S. 55) to amend
                                section 315 of a Jaw reform act, approved June 18,1852 - referred to
                                the Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr. Blair's (S. 56) to amend sections 1 and 27 of an act providing
                                for the election of supervisors of highways, approved June 18,
                                1852referred to the Committee on Roads.
                            Mr. Hill's (3. 57) authorizing township trustees to establish water
                                courses, locate ditches, and for the benefit of agriculture -
                                referred to the Committee on Agriculture.
                            Mr. Slack's (S. 84) fixing the time for holding Courts of Common
                                Pleas in the counties of Huntington and Wells - referred to a select
                                committee of three, which is made to consist of Senators Slack,
                                March and Studabaker.
                            Mr. Bobb's (S. 52) to provide a site and place for the erection of a
                                House of Refuge - referred to the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions.And then the Senate adjourned.
                        
                    
                    



                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1859. 
                        
                        
                             PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS. 
                            By Mr. JEFFRIES: The petition of Jacob Shaeffer and others, citizens
                                of the State of Indiana, for the enactment of a law authorizing
                                persons owning swamp lands to enter upon the lands of others for the
                                purpose of making outlets to their drains, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Swamp Lands.
                            By Mr. POWER: The petition of Reuben W. Williams and others, printers
                                of the State of Indiana, against the various schemes, stratagems and
                                low bids for the public printing, and asking that all such schemes
                                be treated with merited contempt, which was referred to the
                                    Committee of Public Expenditures.
                            By Mr. PARKS: The petition of Jeremiah Needy and other citizens of
                                Marshall county, for the effectual restraint of the sale of
                                intoxicating liquors, which was referred to the Committee
                                    on Temperance.
                            By Mr. MURRAY: The petition of Daniel McCoy and others, citizens of
                                Congressional School District No. 35, lying in the Counties of
                                Elkhart, St. Joseph and Marshall, asking to be attached to the
                                County of Elkhart, which was referred to the Committee on
                                    County and Township Business.
                            By Mr. HALL, of Grant: of sundry citizens, of Grant county, for a law
                                to rid the community of the evils arising from intemperance, which
                                was referred to the Committee on Temperance.
                            By Mr. WOOD: The petition of sundry citizens of Gibson county, for a
                                geological survey of the State, which was referred to the joint
                                committee on that subject.
                            By Mr. JEFFRIES: The memorial of the Society of Friends meeting at
                                Richmond, for the repeal of that section of the law, which denies to
                                colored persons the right to testify in the courts in cases where a
                                white person is a party, signed by Charles T. Coffin, Clerk; which
                                was referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.
                            By Mr. TREADWAY: of Charles D. Hand and other practical printers of
                                the State of Indiana, egainst the various schemes, stratagems and
                                low bids for the public printing - as tending to reduce the wages of
                                compositors, already at the lowest living rate; which was referred
                                to the Committee on Public Expenditures.
                        
                        
                             REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES. 
                            Mr. DOBBINS,from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned the resolution of inquiry into a
                                change of the law so as to allow stated salaries to county officers,
                                &c., with  the expression of
                                opinion that legislation on the subject is inexpedient.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. ROBINSON returned the communication of James C. Jocelin, in
                                relation to the payment of costs in State cases, and reported that
                                further legislation on the subject is unnecessary.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. NELSON, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Black's bill (75) in regard
                                to interest on money, with the expression of opinion that further
                                legislation on the subject is inexpedient.
                            On motion by Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren the bill and report were laid on
                                the table for the present. 
                        
                        
                            LOTTERIES, &C. 
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD, from the same commit tee, returned Mr. Harney's bill
                                (16) to amenc the misdemeanor ate(increasing the lottery fine to
                                $500)with the recommendation that the same do pass.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. SHOCKLEY, from the Committee on Temperance, returned sundry
                                temperance petitions with a general recommendation for the passage
                                of a wholesome law on that subject. [Laughter]
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. AUSTIN, from the same committee, returned a resolution of inquiry
                                into the expediency of legislation on cider and domestic wines, with
                                the expression of opinion that legislation thereon is inexpedient;
                                and reported a bill (No. 114) to prohibit the sale, barter or giving
                                away of any mixed, spirituous, malt or other drinks; to fix penalty
                                for the violation thereof, which was passed the first reading, and
                                the report was concurred in.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN reported the bills numbered 3, 19, 20, 39, 57, 79, as
                                correctly engrossed.
                            Mr. RITTER, from theCommittee on Public
                                    Expenditures, returned Mr. Speaker Gordon's
                                resolution, making inquiry into the amount of money paid annually
                                for Attorney General's services as far back as four years previous
                                to the creation of that office, with a report in conformity
                                therewith, which was read and ordered to be spread upon the
                                Journal.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Auditor of
                                State responding to the resolution of Friday, showing the balance of
                                the Swamp Land Fund to the credit of Lake county to be $19,278 93,
                                which goes on the Journal.
                            The SPEAKER also laid before the House a communication from the same
                                officer, responding fo resolutions of the House during the extra
                                session to report the account of services audited in his office,
                                against the former Auditor of State; also a similar report in
                                reference to the account of the present incumbent, which - 
                            On motion by Mr. HUNTER it was referred to the Committee on
                                    Ways and Means.
                            The SPEAKER also laid before the House a communication from the same
                                officer, responding to a resolution adopted on the 26th of November
                                last, calling for a statement of money paid to the various persons
                                who have hed the office of State Librarian, which was also referred
                                to the Committee on Ways and Means.
                            The SPEAKER also laid before the House a communication from the same
                                officer, in reply to the resolution of the House of the 21st inst.,
                                to the effect that his report for the year 1853 was in type and
                                would be ready for delivery in a few days.
                            Mr. SHULL, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill (H.
                                R. 104) to amend 7th section of the act authorizing the construction
                                of levees and drains, approved June 12, 1852, and recommended its
                                passage.
                            The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. SNYDER submitted a resolution, which was adopted, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Auditor of State be
                                            requested to inform the House at an early day, whether
                                            the State of Indiana is not the owner of certain town
                                            lots south of the canal in the town of Indianapolis, and
                                            if so to state the number of said lots and their
                                            probable value. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. DURHAM submitted the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Education inquire into the expediency
                                            of suspending the collection of taxes for the support of
                                            Township Libraries, and that the Township Libraries be
                                            sold, and the proceeds thereof appropriated to the
                                            Common School Fund. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion of Mr. JORDON, the resolution was laid on the table.
                            Mr. HARTLEY submitted the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That we hold it to be sound
                                            and unexceptionable doctrine, that if the people of a
                                            Territory are in favor of slavery, they have a right to
                                            make laws to establish and protect it, and if they are
                                            opposed to slavery, they have an equal right to make
                                            laws to exclude it. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by MERRIFIELD, it was laid on the table.
                            Mr. MILLER submitted a resolution, which adopted, correcting the
                                journal of the joint convention of the 16th inst, in respect to the
                                statement therein concerning the term of office of the Directors of
                                the State Prison elect, so as to indicate that the said Directors
                                were elected for terms to be fixed by law and until their successors
                                shall be elected and qualified.
                            Mr. LAWHEAD submitted a preamble and resolution, which were adopted,
                                that it is the sense of the House of Representatives, that the
                                number of members of the House should be reduced to 75, and that of
                                the Senate to 30.
                            Mr. MURRAY submitted the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Judiciary
                                                Committee be and they are hereby
                                            instructed to report a bill prescribing the time, place
                                            and manner of electing United States Senators for the
                                            State of Indiana, in accordance with the constitution
                                            thereof. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. SHULL submitted a resolution, which was rejected, directing the
                                    Committee on Education to inquire and report
                                on the expediency of fixing the current school tax at 15 cents on
                                the $100.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House the memorial of B. R. Daniels, of
                                Noble county, desirous of change in the school laws"of some benefit
                                of the money," and complaining of the "manner in which school
                                matters are conducted."
                            It was referred to the Committee on Education.Mr.
                                USREY submitted the following, which as adopted by consent: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                the Organization of the Courts of Justice
                                            be instructed to inquire into the ex-  expediency of so changing
                                            the law that any person mav take a change of venue from
                                            any of the Common Pleas Courts of the State to the
                                            Circuit Court, and report by bill or otherwise. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. POWER submitted a resolution, which was rejected, requiring the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges to report
                                on the expediency of repealing all laws on the subject of usury.
                            Mr. HARTLEY submitted a resolution, which was rejected, requiring the
                                    Committee on Education to report on the
                                expediency of curtailing the salary of the Superintendent of Public
                                Instruction.
                            Mr. DOBBINS submitted a resolution, which was rejected, requiring the
                                State Librarian to make a complete catalogue of the books, &c.,
                                in the State Library at this time, and that the same be printed and
                                distributed amongst those entitled by law to the privilage of the
                                library.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS submitted a resolution, which was adopted, to the effect
                                that the Trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal be requested to
                                furnish this House immediately with an account of moneys furnished
                                to each of said Trustees for salary or otherwise since the creation
                                of said Board, and that the Clerk of this House transmit a copy of
                                this resolution to Thomas Dowling, Esq., Resident Trustee, at Terre
                                Haute.
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON [Mr. Branham in the Chair] submitted a
                                resolution,which was adopted, directing the Judiciary
                                    Committee to inquire whether the State of Indiana has
                                the constitutional power to reduce the width of the Michigan road;
                                also, whether it is not obligatory upon the State to keep up said
                                road; and if so, whether the State is not bound to construct a
                                bridge across White river, where said road crosses said river, and
                                report by bill or otherwise. 

                        
                        
                            ROOM RENT FOR FEDERAL COURT.
                            Mr. HUNTER submitted a joint resolution (No. 14) to the effect that,
                                whereas, the Government of the United States has occupied certain
                                apartments of the Capitol of this State for the holding of the
                                Federal Court from 1836 to 1858, inclusive, therefore - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, &c, That our
                                            Representatives in Congress be requested and our
                                            Senators instructed to prosecute said claim in the
                                            Congress of the United States, in proper form, and
                                            demand on the part of this State, rent for the use of
                                            said apartments, with fuel and light for such time, at
                                            the rate of $500 a year; and that the Governor forward a
                                            copy of this resolution to each of our Senators and
                                            Representatives in Congress.
                                    
                                
                            
                            The resolution was adopted by yeas 75, nays 6.
                        
                        
                            COUNTY CLERK, AUDITOR AND RECORDER.
                            Mr. WATERMAN submitted a joint resolution (No. 15) as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                         WHEREAS, Section 2 of art 6 of the
                                            Constitution of the State of Indiana requires the
                                            election of various county officers; and, whereas, in
                                            the opinion of this Legislature no more officers should
                                            be maintained than the public welfare actuary demands,
                                            therefore - 
                                        Be it resolved and proposed by the General
                                                Assembly of the State of Indiana, That the
                                            Constitution of the State he amended by striking out
                                            raid 2d sec. of art 6.
                                        And be it further resolved, That the
                                            last proviso of sec 9 of art. 2 of said Constitution be
                                            amended so as to read: "The offices of clerk, recorder
                                            or auditor, or any two of them may be conferred on the
                                            same person." 
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT, the joint resolution was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary. 

                        
                        
                            ELEVENTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
                            A message from the Senate now announced the passage, in that body, of
                                the bill (S. 60) fixing the time of holding the Circuit Court in the
                                llth Judicial Circuit, and prescribing the length thereof in the
                                counties thereof.
                            On motion of Mr. FIRESTONE, the order of business was suspended, and
                                this Senate bill was taken up and passed the first reading.
                            On the further motion of Mr. FIRESTONE, (the rule being suspended)
                                the bill was read the second time by title, and passed to the third
                                reading. 
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            By Mr. HUNTER: A bill (115) to repeal the act providing for a more
                                uniform mode of doing Township Business, approved May 6, 1852,
                                saving all proceedings and claims now pending before the various
                                Boards of Township Trustees, and providing for the disposition
                                thereof.
                            By Mr. DOBBINS: A bill (116) to provide for a more uniform mode of
                                doing Township Business, and to repeal the act for a more uniform
                                mode of doing Township Business, approved May 6, 1852.
                            By Mr. HUNTER, (117) to amend section 11, and repeal from sections 28
                                to 38, inclusive, of the act opening and changing highways, approved
                                June 15, 1852, so as to give this business to the County
                                Commissioners, saving all suits and proceedings before the various
                                Boards of Township Trustees in this State, and providing for the
                                transfer of said suits to the various Boards of County
                                Commissioners.
                            By Mr.SHERMAN, (118) to enforce and prescribe punishment for the
                                officers of banking institutions failing to pay deposits or to
                                redeem their bills on presentation.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE, (119) providing for the distribution of the Sinking
                                Fund, and defining the duties of officers therein named, and setting
                                apart and dedicating the same to common school purposes; providing
                                the manner in which the same shall be managed, and providing for the
                                distribution of said fund among the several counties.
                            [ This bill on the motion of Mr. COLGROVE, (the rules being suspended
                                for that purpose) was read twice and ordered to be printed200 copies
                                for the Senate and 300 copies for the use of the House of
                                Representatives.]
                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: (120) to fix the time of holding the Circuit Courts
                                in the 8th Judicial Circuit.
                            By Mr. SCOTT: (121) to provide for the protection of fish in the
                                lakes in this State, and defining the time in which the same may be
                                shot, or caught with seine or net, and declaring penalty for the
                                violation of this act.
                            By Mr. HUNTER: (122) to authorize the holders of unauthorized paper
                                currency to sue for and recover from persons who have issued the
                                same as for money had and received, without making previous holders
                                parties to the suit, and making the currency evidence of the
                                indebtedness.
                            By Mr. MARTIN: (123) an act concerning interest on money, prescribing
                                penalties and repealing conflicting laws.
                            
                             By Mr. WHETZEL: (124) to prohibit the throwing of dead animals into
                                running streams, and proscribing the penalty therefor.
                            By Mr. HUNTER: (125) to prevent persons from riding, leading or
                                driving any kind of animal on the track or embankment of any
                                railroad, or driving carriages thereon, except as in cases therein
                                prescribed, and prescribing penalties therefor.
                            By Mr. PARKS: (126) to amend section 2 of chap. 5, 2d vol. of the
                                Revised Statutes, part 1st of an act regulating and providing for
                                the election of Clerks of the Circuit Court, and prescribing some of
                                their duties; concerning the organization of courts; providing for
                                the election of their officers, and prescribing their general
                                duties, and to repeal certain laws therein named.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE: (127) to provide for the conveyancing of real estate
                                by any person or persons claiming: right or title thereto.
                            By Mr. STILES: (128) to regulate the practice of the Supreme Court in
                                the construction and interpretation of bills of exception set forth
                                in transcripts
                            By Mr. CLEMENTS: (129) an act touching pleadings in abatement and
                                dilatory defences in civil actions.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE: (130) to authorize the Board of Commissioners of the
                                several counties to abolish all road districts within the limits of
                                incorporated towns within their respective counties, and to place
                                the said road work and road taxes under the control of the Council
                                of said towns.
                            By Mr. BROTHERTON: (131) to secure dues from private
                                corporations.
                            By Mr. MASSEY:(132) to amend the act regulating general elections and
                                prescribing the duties of officers in relation thereto, approved
                                June 7, 1852, amending sections 48 and 50, and repealing section 49
                                thereof: [Prescribing $1 a day for inspectors, judges and
                                clerks.]
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading. 
                        
                        
                            SEVENTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
                            On motion by Mr. H ARRISON,(the order of business and the rules being
                                suspended for the purpose,) the bill (S. 3) providing lor adding the
                                counties of Hancock, Madison, Hamilton, Tipton and Howard, to the
                                7th Judicial Circuit, was taken up and passed the first and second
                                readings.
                            On motion of Mr. BROTHERTON is was referred to a select committee of
                                five, which the SPEAKER makes to consist of Messrs. Brother-ton,
                                Harrison,Ritter, Cotton and Shull.
                            On motion by Mr. MERRIFIELD, amended by Mr. Branham, it was ordered
                                that when the House adjourn it shall be till to-morrow 2 o'clock, P.
                                M.
                            And then the House adjourned. 
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             TUESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. GREEN presented the petition of certain printers of Noblesville,
                                praying against a reduction of the prices now paid for public
                                printing; which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Printing. 
                        
                        
                            TIME OF HOLDING COURTS.
                            Mr. HEFFREN, from a special committee, returned his bill [S. 116]
                                fixing the times of holding Courts in the Second Judicial District,
                                and recommended its passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill read the second time by
                                title.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the bill was considered as engrossed, read
                                the third time, and finally passed the Senate by yeas 41, nays 0.
                            
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced and read through the first
                                time:
                            By Mr JOHNSTON, [No. 125] to prohibit the sale of intoxicating
                                liquors to idiots or insane persons, or minors.
                            On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, the rules were suspended - yeas 42, nays
                                0the bill read the second time by title, and referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance.
                            By Mr. STEELE, [No. 126] to provide for a geological, mineralogical
                                and agricultural survey of the State.
                            On motion by Mr. STEELE, the bill was read the second time by
                                titleyeas 40, nays 0and referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.
                            By Mr. BLAIR, [No. 127] to amend sections 18,25 and 26 of an act
                                regulating the apportionment of real estate, approved May
                                14,185[3?]
                            By Mr. GREEN, [No. 128] in relation to the publication or legal
                                advertisements.
                            By Mr. BENNETT, [No. 129] declaring the having carnal knowledge of
                                insane women a felony.
                            By Mr. COOPER, [No. 130] to prevent the sale of adulterated liquors.
                            
                        
                        
                            THE DIVORCE LAW.
                            On motion by Mr. CONNER, his bill [S. 1] amending the Divorce Act,
                                approved May 13, 1852, was taken from the files and read through the
                                third time
                            Mr. MARCH moved to recommit to a committee of three, with the
                                following instructions:
                            The provisions of this section shall extend to decrees for divorces
                                heretofore as well as those hereafter rendered, so far as relates to
                                alimony, disposition of property and the care and control of
                                children.
                            Mr. HEFFREN said that very nearly the same amendment was voted down
                                the other day; he, therefore, moved to lay the motion on the
                                table.
                            This motion was rejected.
                            Mr.BENNETT opposed the amendment proposed the other day because it
                                opened up the divorce case, but he was in favor of the motion to
                                recommit because it proposes simply the opening of the case only so
                                far as property and the custody of children is concerned.
                            Mr. HENDRY apprehended that the Courts have a right to open up and
                                have a rehearing of divorce cases, but was opposed to the amendment
                                proposed, because it would have the effect of an advertisement,
                                inviting foreigners into this State for the purpose of opening up
                                old cases. He thought the bill had better remain as it is.
                            Mr. MARCH supported his motion.
                            Mr. CONNER, said the amendment proposed now was contained in the bill
                                as originally  adopted, only the
                                bill went farther, and authorized the opening up of the entire
                                divorce case. He would vote for the recommitment.
                            Mr. MURRAY thought the Legislature had no power to interfere with
                                divorces already granted unless they were obtained by fraud. He was
                                satisfied the amendment would be a nullity, and should not offer any
                                serious objections.
                            Mr. HARGROVE demanded a division of the question.
                            The motion to recommit was agreed to, and the LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR
                                makes the committee to consist of Senators March, Wallace and
                                Odell.
                            The instructions were then adopted.
                            Mr. WEIR made an ineffectual motion to strike out the words "one
                                year," so as to leave the law as it was before. 
                        
                        
                            SPECIAL ORDER.
                            Mr. BOBBS reminded the Senate of the special order for this hour -
                                the bill [S. 25] - and moved to postpone it till Thursday, 10
                                o'clock.
                            The motion was agreed to. 
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced and severally passed the first
                                reading:
                            By Mr. HEFFREN, [S. 131] to amend sections 207 and 208 of a law
                                reform act, approved June 18, 1852, so as to authorize the change of
                                venue in certain cases.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the bill was read the second time by title
                                - yeas 42, nays 0and referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                            By Mr. GREEN, [S. 132] for the protection of the Sabbath, &c.,
                                and repealing an act of the same title, approved February 28,
                                1855.
                            [On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, his bill [S. 107] authorizing
                                appraisers of real property and their deputies, to administer oaths
                                required to be administered in the discharge of their duties, was
                                taken from the files, the rules suspended yeas 42, nays 0the bill
                                read the third time, and finally passed by yeas 41, nays 0.]
                            By Mr. JONES, [No. 133] respecting the removal of executors,
                                administrators and guardians, and the appointment of commissioners
                                t> settle their trusts in certain cases. 
                        
                        
                            CITY CORPORATIONS.
                            On motion by Mr. BOBBS, his bill [S. 112] to amend the charter of
                                city corporations, was taken from the files, the rules suspended -
                                yeas 36 nays 2the bill read the second time by its title, and
                                referred to a select committee of seven, which the PRESIDENT [Mr.
                                Steele in the chair] makes to consist of Senators Bobbs, Cravens,
                                Anthony, McLean, Culver, Hamilton and Beeson. 

                        
                        
                            THE DIVORCE LAW.
                            Mr. MARCH, by leave, returned from the special committee appointed
                                this day, Mr. Conner's bill [S. 1] amending the Divorce section of
                                May 13, 1852, with the amendment which said committee was instructed
                                to make, as recorded above.
                            Mr. MURRAY thought the amendment was practically granting a control
                                contrary to practice and law, and giving the courts power to set
                                aside a judgment which it had not the power to do at the time of
                                rendition of the judgment.
                            Mr. CRAVENS said this amendment was simply to enable judges to turn
                                round and do justice to those to whom it has rendered injustice
                            Mr. WALLACE was of the opinion that if it were competent to open up
                                judgments in one class of cases it was certainly right to do so in
                                others. He contended that the Legislature had the right to authorize
                                a rehearing in any case heretofore decided.
                            Mr. WEIR. Every Senator who has spoken on this subject, seems to
                                think that this law has been a disgrace to our State, and now it is
                                proposed to open up all these cases, which would take twenty times
                                as much time as was occupied by the case when the application was
                                first made, and thus the proposed amendment would be the source of
                                an endless amount of litigation.
                            The report of the committee was then concurred in without a
                                division.
                            The question being on the final passage of the bill, a constitutional
                                provision demanding the yeas and nays, they were ordered, and being
                                taken, resulted - yeas 42, nays 3 - Messrs. Fisk, Hendry and
                                Weir.
                            Absent and not voting - Messrs. Miller, Robinson, Slack, Taikington
                                and Williams.
                            Mr. WALLACE, by leave, submitted a communication from Prof. Mills,
                                containing statistical and other information pertinent to our
                                present common school system, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Education without reading. 
                        
                        
                            RESOLUTIONS.
                            Mr. CRAVENS, by leave, from the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions, submitted a resolution, which was
                                adopted, empowering said committee to send for persons and papers,
                                and do all other things necessary to investigate the affairs of said
                                Institution.
                            Mr. MILLER, by leave, offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                directing the Judiciary Committee to inquire
                                whether this General Assembly can redistrict the State for
                                Senatorial and Representative purposes.
                            Mr. GREEN, by leave, offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                authorizing the Swamp Land Committee to continue
                                the investigation commenced at the last session, with power to
                                administer oaths, send for persons and papers, &c.
                            Mr. WALLACE, by leave, offered a resolution that when the new seats
                                are brought in the chamber, the Door-keeper provide ballots, with
                                the number of a seat on each, and that Senators draw as their names
                                are called, and occupy the seat which the ballot indicates.
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed to amend so that the name of each Senator be
                                written on a slip of paper and placed in a box and drawn out one at
                                a time, and as the names are drawn let the member whose name is
                                indicated select a seat.
                            Mr. GREEN moved to lay the resolutions and amendments on the
                                table.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 25, nays 20.
                            And then the Senate took a recess till two o'clock. 
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR an
                                nounced the special order, being a resolution directing the
                                    Committee on the Organization of Courts to
                                report a bill abolishing the Court of Common Pleas, and adopting, as
                                far as possible, the surrogate system, the question pending being an
                                amendment, making it a resolution of inquiry.
                            Mr. GREEN presumed the object of the resolution is to bring the
                                Senate to a direct vote upon the question whether we will or will
                                not abolish the Court of Common Pleas, and adopt the surrogate
                                system.
                            On Mr. HEFFREN'S motion, the resolution and pending amendment were
                                laid on the table. 

                            
                                BILLS ON THE SECOND READING.
                                On Mr. HEFFREN'S motion, the following bills were taken from the
                                    files, read through the second lime, and referred or ordered to
                                    be engrossed
                                Mr. Turner's, [S. 53] to amend section 14 of an act for the
                                    reformation of the Hospital of the Insane, approved July 15,
                                    1852to the Committee on Benevolent
                                        Institutions.
                                Mr. Wagoner's, [S. 59] supplemental to an act to provide for a
                                    general system of Common Schools, &c.,to the
                                        Judiciary Committee.
                                Mr. Hill's, [S. 61] to amend section 3 of an act to provide for
                                    the government and displine of the State Prison, and to repeal
                                    an act providing for the regulation of the State Prison,
                                    approved March 3, 1858, and all other laws or parts of laws
                                    inconsistent herewith, approved February 5, 1857to the
                                        State Prison Committee.
                                Mr. Tarkington's, [S. 62] for the relief of the Indiana
                                    University, and providing for the sale of lands donated by the
                                    United States for its benefit to a select committee of five,
                                    which is made to consist of Senators Tarkington, Murray, McLean,
                                    Shoemaker and Anthony.
                                Mr. Wilson's, [S. 63] to amend section 5 of an act to provide for
                                    equalizing the assessment of real property, approved May 28,
                                    1852to a committee of one from each Congressional District,
                                    which the Chair makes to consist of Senators Stevens, Carnahan,
                                    Heffren, Cravens, Line, Beeson, Bobbs, McLean, Wagner, Brown,
                                    Hendry, and Conner.
                                Mr. Jones' [S. 64] to render public officers competent to testify
                                    as witnesses in cases brought on their relation to the Stateto
                                    the Judiciary Committee.
                                Mr. Hendrys', [S. 65] defining the crime of embezzelment - to the
                                        Judiciary Committee.
                                Mr. Turner's [S. 67] requiring the Superintendents of the several
                                    State Asylums to report the number of patients who are the
                                    offspring of parents married within the degrees of
                                    consanguinityto the Committee on Benevolent
                                        Institutions.
                                Mr. McLean's [S. 68] to amend section 9 of an act to provide for
                                    the election of Clerks of Circuit Courts, approved June 7,
                                    1852-to the Judiciary Committee.
                                Mr. Steele's [S. 69] to legalize all bonds and other instruments
                                    of writing executed by any assignee of a Branch of the State
                                    Bank of Indiana, to authorize suits to be brought thereon, and
                                    to empower the debtors of any branch to secure the same to the
                                    Sinking Fund - to the Committee on Banks.
                                [A message from the House was received announcing the passage by
                                    that body of a joint resolution [H. R. 3] instructing our
                                    Senators and requesting our Representatives in Congress to
                                    procure, if possible, the passage of a law establishing an
                                    armory at the Falls of the Ohio.]
                                Mr. Heffren's [S. 70] supplemental to an act concerning County
                                    Prisons, approved May 27 1852, and to provide for the erection
                                    of work houses - to the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business.
                                Mr. Carnahan's [S. 71] to incorporate the Indiana School of
                                    Practical Sciencesto the Committee on
                                        Corporations.
                                Mr. Gooding's [S. 72] to repeal an act to amend an act, providing
                                    for the settlement of decedent estates, approved June 17, 1852,
                                    which was approved March 4, 1853to the Judiciary
                                        Committee.
                                Mr. O'Brien's [S. 73] to provide for the col-lection of taxes
                                    assessed against lands and lots mortgaged to secure loans from
                                    the public trust funds, and to repeal section 8 of chapter 6 of
                                    the Revised Statutes of 1852.
                                Mr. Kinley's [3. 74] declaring certain places where intoxicating
                                    liquors are sold to be nuisances - to a select committee of
                                    five, which is made to consist of Senators Kinley, Stevens,
                                    Wilson, O'Brien and Blair.
                                Mr. Johnston's [S. 75] to amend sections 9 and20 of an act
                                    regulating fees of officers, approved March 2, 1855to a select
                                    committee of five, which is made to consist of Senators Bobbs,
                                    Johnston, Line, Weir and Bennett.
                                Mr. Studabaker's [S. 76] to provide for the distribution and
                                    investment of the sinking fund, and to provide for the purchase
                                    of bonds. Referred to the Judiciary Committee.
                                [A message from the House announced the passage, by that body, of
                                    a joint resolution [H. R. 2] instructing our senators and
                                    requesting our Representatives in Congress to use their
                                    influence to procure the passage of an act for the grant of
                                    lands for agricultural Colleges.]
                                Mr. McClure's [S. 77] to amend section 18 of an act concerning
                                    real property and the alienation thereof. Referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.
                                Mr. Beeson's [S. 78] fixing the time of recording certain
                                    instruments of writing. Ordered to be engrossed.
                                Mr. Lomax's [S. 79] to extend the time of payment of purchasers
                                    of Saline and school lands. Referred to the Committee
                                        on Education.
                                Mr. Fisk's [S. 80] to amend section 2 of an act to authorize
                                    Commissioners of the Sinking Fund to receive mortgages, &c.,
                                    approved January 28, 1857. Referred to the Committee on
                                        Education.
                                Mr. Wilson's [S. 102] to amend section 2 of an act to establish
                                    the Courts of Common Pleas. Referred to a select committee of
                                    three.[A message from the House announced the passage, by that
                                    body, of the bill [S. 60] fixing the time of holding the Circuit
                                    court in the 11th Judicial District ]
                                Mr. Hargrove's [S. 81] fixing the compensation of executors and
                                    administrators, and to repeal section 148 of the Revised
                                    Statutes of 1852. Referred to a select committee of five. 
                            
                            
                            
                                CUBA.
                                Mr. HEFFREN introduced a preamble and resolution, as follows: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            WHEREAS, Many officials of the
                                                Spanish Government, upon the Island of Cuba, as well
                                                as upon the high seas, have outraged the rights of
                                                American citizens, trampled under foot that comity
                                                which should be extended by the Government of one
                                                nation to that of another, have insulted and
                                                outraged the American flag, have caused our ships to
                                                be boarded and searched upon the common highway of
                                                nations, have refused to make that apology which a
                                                sense of justice should require, and WHEREAS, the Government of Spain has
                                                directly sanctioned the course and conduct of her
                                                officials, in their continued course of bad conduct
                                                and treatment of American citizens, and, WHEREAS, the Spanish Government is
                                                the only civilized Government in the world that
                                                countenances either directly or indirectly, that
                                                relic of barbarism, the African Slave trade, and,
                                                  WHEREAS, our Government has
                                                been for a long time endeavoring to obtain indemnity
                                                and satisfaction for the manifold wrongs, grievances
                                                and outrages committed both upon the property and
                                                person of American citizens as well as for insult
                                                and violence to our flag and, WHEREAS, no satisfactory determination has
                                                been, nor is it believed can be, arrived at between
                                                the two Governments in regard thereto, and no offers
                                                have been made by Spain to reimburse our citizens
                                                for the many wrongs done them, both in person and
                                                property; and, WHEREAS, outrage
                                                has succeeded outrage, and insult followed insult in
                                                rapid succession for a series of years; and, WHEREAS, the Island of Cuba,
                                                situated as it is, but a few miles from our southern
                                                coast, and being the key to the Gulf of Mexico, and
                                                through it to the great valley and basin of the
                                                Missisippi, would, if in the hands of any other
                                                nation than the United States, in a time of war, be
                                                a rendezvous for the army and navy of our enemies,
                                                from whence they would attempt to carry devastation
                                                along our entire seaboard and penetrate into the
                                                interior by means of our great rivers; and, WHEREAS, we believe in the spread
                                                of universal liberty, knowledge and independence,
                                                aud are in favor of carrying out the "manifest
                                                destiny" of our Nation and people, and extending the
                                                area of free principles and religious liberty and
                                                toleration, as a means by which our race may be made
                                                more useful, prosperous, happy, and great; and, WHEREAS, our citizens, who have
                                                been wronged in either person property, by the
                                                officials of the Spanish Government should be
                                                reimbursed by Spain; and, WHEREAS, it is the duty of all good
                                                governments to protect the life, liberty, and
                                                property of its citizens at all hazards, and in all
                                                places - 
                                            Therefore, be it resolved, That our
                                                Senators in Congress lie instructed and our
                                                Representatives requested to vote for the passige of
                                                some law which will give the President of the United
                                                States full power to call out the entire strength of
                                                the Nation to obtain a just redress of the
                                                grievances of which our Government and its citizens
                                                are entitled from the Spanish Government and that he
                                                have full power placed in his hands, so to use the
                                                strength and force of the Union as to compel
                                                satisfaction for any new outrage, either upon any of
                                                our citizens, or the honor and dignity of our Flag
                                                or Nation.
                                            And be it further resolved, That in
                                                case the army and navy are ever called out to
                                                protect our citizens in their rights of person and
                                                property, to compel indemnity for past wrongs,
                                                grievances and outages, that we recommend the taking
                                                the Island of Cuba, as an indemnity to our
                                                Government and its citizens, and that the United
                                                States then remunerate her citizens for their
                                                losses. And that we are in favor, in case of the
                                                occupation of Cuba by our army and navy of retaining
                                                possession of the same, and finally of annexing the
                                                "Gem of the Antilles" to the Confederacy of States,
                                                thereby making a new star in the constellation of
                                                American liberty.
                                            And be it further resolved, That we
                                                can not consent that the Island of Cuba shall pass
                                                from the possession of Spain into the power or
                                                possession of any nation other than ours and that
                                                any attempt by any European Government to obtain
                                                possession of the Island, either by conquest or
                                                purchase, should be resisted even with the whole
                                                strength and power of the American Union. Be it further resolved,That the
                                                Governor be requested to forward to our Senators and
                                                members in Congress a copy of these resolutions.
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. HEFFREN moved to make it the special order for a week from
                                    next Thursday at 2 o'clock. 
                                Mr WEIR moved to lay the resolutions ou the table.
                                The motion was agreed to-yeas 23, nays 19. 
                                And then the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             TUESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            COLONIZATION OF NEGROES.
                            Mr. PARKS presented the petition of sundry citizens and tax-payers of
                                the State for the repeal of the several acts for colonization of
                                negroes.
                            Mr EDWARDS. The complaints represented in the petition are not
                                unknown to me, but such a petition I had not expected to come from
                                the quarter it has come from. I am a colonizationist, and believe
                                that the propriety and humanity of that cause frauds have been
                                committed by pretended friends against that common philanthropy that
                                should actuate us all. Hence, its good and true purpose has been
                                prejudiced. I know not what reference the gentleman from Marshall,
                                who presented the petition, desires to make of it, as that courtesy
                                is due to him; but, that there may be an impartial examination of
                                the facts and presentation of the question, I move the reference of
                                the petition to a select committee of five, of which the gentleman
                                from Marshall shall be a member.
                            The motion was agreed to, and the SPEAKER, makes the committee to
                                consist of Messrs. Edwards, Parks, Murray, Sherman and Boyd. 
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. TURPIE, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                the resolution of inquiry into the law of settlement of decedents'
                                estates, and reported a bill [No. 133] to amend sections 45 and 46
                                of the act for the settlement of decedents' estates, prescribing the
                                rights, duties and liabilities of officers connected with the
                                management thereof, and the heirs thereto, and certain powers to be
                                used in such settlements, approved June 17, 1852, and the
                                supplemental act of February 20,1855, which was passed the first
                                reading. 
                        
                        
                            CIVIL ACTIONS.
                             Mr. PARRETT, from a majority of the same committee, returned Mr.
                                Prosser's bill [37] to amend the 33d section of the Practice Act of
                                June 18, 1852, so as to require notes to be sued iu the county where
                                the maker resides, with a recommendation that the same be
                                indefinitely postponed.
                            Mr. PROSSER. submitted a minority report, showing up abuses of the
                                existing law, in which by the transfer of notes, the maker is under
                                the necessity of leaving his own aud going into another county to
                                defend a suit which should have been brought in his own county, and
                                he recommended the passage of the bill.
                            The report of the majority was concurred in on a division -
                                affirmative 22, negative 20. 
                        
                        
                            WESTERN AROMY.
                            Mr POWER, from the Committee on Military Affairs,
                                returned Mr. Hunter's joint resolution instructing the Indiana
                                Delegation in Congress to vote for the location of the proposed
                                Armory of the United States at the Falls of the Ohio river  on the Indiana side, with a
                                recommendation that the same do pass.
                            The joint resolution was adopted. 

                        
                        
                            LANDLORDS AND TENANTS.
                             Mr. MASSEY, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Durham's bill [51] to amend
                                the act of May 20, 1852, regarding landlords and tenants, &c.,
                                with the expression of opinion that legislation on the subject is
                                inexpedient.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, from the same committee, returned Mr.
                                Treadway's bill [26] for the protection of witnesses, with a
                                recommendation that the same be laid on the table.The report was
                                concurred in. 
                        
                        
                            DRAINS.
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD, from the same committee, returned the petition of
                                Jacob Shaefer, on the matter of draining wet lands, with the
                                expression of opinion that legislation on the subject is
                                unnecessary.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            [A message from the Senate now announced the passage of bills of the
                                Senate, numbered 30, 10, 11,107.]
                        
                        
                            THEATRICAL REPRESENTATIONS,&C 
                            Mr. BROTHERTON, from the same, returned the resolution inquiring into
                                the expediency of a law for the suppression of theatrical
                                representations, horse racing, "and other things incompatible with
                                true religion and good morals," recommending that the same lay on
                                the table.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. PARKS, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned the resolution requiring said
                                committee to inquire into the expediency of reporting an amendment
                                to a bill on the subject of interest, prohibiting banks from
                                charging a greater rate of interest on notes, bills, &c., than
                                that which is allowed to individuals on money, with the expression
                                of opinion that legislation on that subject is unnecessary and
                                inexpedient.
                            On motion by Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, it was laid on the table for the
                                present.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN, from the same committee, returned Mr. Nebeker, of
                                Warren's bill [22] to amend sections 1,2 and 3, of the act of May
                                27, 1852, concerning interest on money, striking out and inserting
                                an amendment by way of substitute.
                            Mr. DAVIS inquired if that rate [of 10 per cent.] would be extended
                                by the bill to the banks. He would interpose no objection to
                                extending that rate of interest to individuals, but would be
                                unwilling to give it to those institutions with large concentrated
                                capital.
                            On motion by Mr.KEEFER the bill and report were laid on the table for
                                the present. 
                        
                        
                            ROADS.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK, from the Committee on Roads returned
                                Mr. Jeffries bill [27] to consolidate road companies, with a
                                recommendation that the same do pass.
                            The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK, from the same committee, returned Mr. Treadway's bill
                                [50] to amend sec. 31 of the supervisor's act of June 18, 1852,
                                recommending passage.
                            The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. PROSSER, from the same committee, returned his bill [95] to
                                legalize the location of roads, recommending passage.
                            The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. HARRISON, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Mr. Hamilton, of Wayne's, bill [48]
                                to amend the 6th sec. of the County Board act of June 17 1852,
                                recommending passage.
                            The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            
                        
                        
                             ASSESSMENT. 
                            Mr. MELLETT, from the same committee, returned Mr. Waterman's bill
                                [52] providing fo the election and qualification of assessors and
                                defining part of their duties, recommending indefinite
                                postponement.
                            Mr. WATERMAN submitted a minority report, reasoning in favor of the
                                bill, which proposes the county system of assessment. He supported
                                the bill on the score of economy.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS hoped the majority would not be concurred in, and
                                sustained the reasoning of the minority. He demanded the yeas and
                                nays on the question of concurring in the report of the
                                majority.
                            Mr. RYNERSON, (by consent) read a letter from the Auditor of his
                                county, showing the difference between the county and township
                                system of assessment.
                            The yeas and nays being demanded and taken on concurring in the
                                majority report, resulted yeas 43, nays 46, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Black, Branham,
                                            Cavins, Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Durham, Early,
                                            Edwards, Fordyce, Gifford, Hall, of Grant; Hall, of
                                            Rush; Hamilton, of Wayne; Harney, Jeffries, Johnston,
                                            Jones, Lawhead, McLain, Major, Mansfield, Massey,
                                            Mellet, Murray, Martin, Nebeker. of Vermillion; Parks,
                                            Power, Scott, Sherman, Smith, of Miami; Stiles,
                                            Thompson, of Elkhart, Treadway, Turpie, Usrey, Wheeler,
                                            Whetzel, Whiteman, and Mr. Speaker - 43. 
                                        NAYS - Baird, Blythe, Bowman, Boyd,
                                            Boxley, Brotherton, Carr, Clark, Claypool, Clayton,
                                            Clements, Collier, Davis, Dobbins, Dougherty, Firestone,
                                            Gregory, Hancock, Harrison, Hartley, Hunter, Jordan,
                                            Reefer, Kelley, Kempf, Lewis, Merrifield, Miller,
                                            Nebeker, of Warren, Nelson, Newton, Prosser, Ritter,
                                            Robinson, Row, Rynerson, Shields, Shockley, Shull,
                                            Smith, of Perry; Snyder, Stanley, Summers, Tebbs,
                                            Waterman, and Wood - 46.
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the House refused to concur.
                            On motion by Mr. PROSSER, it was referred to a special committee of
                                five, which the SPEAKER makes to consist of Messrs, Prosser,
                                Waterman, Rynerson, Sherman and Scott. 
                        
                        
                            AGRICULTURAL COLLEGES.
                             Mr. RYNERSON, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned the joint resolution for a grant of Congress land for
                                Agricultural Colleges, recommending passage
                            The report was concurred in and the resolution adopted - yeas 84,
                                nays 1. 
                        
                        
                            CANADA THISTLE.
                            Mr. RYNERSON, from the same committee, returned Mr. Murray's
                                resolution of inquiry against the spread of the Canada Thistle,
                                alleg  ing no facts in their
                                possession to warrant legislation upon the subject, and recommending
                                indefinite postponement.
                            The report was concurred in. Mr. EDWARDS, from the Committee on
                                Benevolent Institutions, returned Mr Dobbins' bill, [80] to provide
                                sites for Houses of Refuge for juvenile offenders, &c.,
                                recommending that in consequence of the present embarrassed
                                condition of the state of finances, the bill be laid on the
                                table.
                            The report was concurred in. 
                        
                        
                            LANDLORD'S LIEN. 
                            Mr. JOHNSON, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill,
                                [73] to enable industrious indigent person to rent land, [giving
                                landlords preference in the collection of rents,] recommending
                                passage.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. BAIRD proposed to amend the title of the bill so as to read, a
                                bill to enable landlords to oppress indigent tenants.
                            Mr. EDWARDS objected, that it was not parliamentary to amend the
                                title till the bill was on the third reading.
                            Mr. BAIRD proposed to withdraw the amendment. [Cries of "no,"
                                "no."]
                            Mr. ROBINSON. Three years ago, we had a law precisely similar to
                                this. That had been repealed, and now no poor tenant could rent
                                without giving security, and the effect of that was, that many could
                                not rent at all.
                            Mr. PARKS proposed to amend the amendment by substituting these
                                words: " To give landlords a lien on the crops for the payment of
                                rents.
                            Mr. DOBBINS desired to make it the special order for Tuesday week,
                                which was rejected.
                            Mr. PROSSER. Till the fourth of July, which was also rejected, and
                                then - 
                            Mr. Park's amendment and Mr. Baird's amendment were successfully
                                rejected, and the question recurred on engrossment, and the yeas and
                                nays were demanded and ordered thereon.
                            Mr. MURRAY would like to see the bill referred again, but if forced
                                to the vote, he must vote in favor of it. He considered that there
                                should be better security for the landlord, &c.
                            Mr. BAIRD. It was going back to the doctrine of the landlord's lein.
                                He believed any honest, industrious man could rent land as much as
                                he required. He reasoned against the bill. He had resisted the
                                petition of a Shylock,in his own county, for a similar law for the
                                benefit of renters of houses, because he knew the petitioner.
                            Mr. STILES. At the proper time, he should propose to amend so as to
                                give the landlord a lein on the furniture, wife and children of the
                                tenant.
                            The yeas and nays on the engrossment, [demanded by Messrs. Harney and
                                Brotherton,] were now taken, resulting - yeas 40, nays 48 - as
                                follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Black, Boyd, Carr,
                                            Claypool, Clayton, Clements, Cotton, Davidson, Durham,
                                            Early, Fordyce, Gifford, Hall of Rush, Hancock, Hunter,
                                            Johnston, Lewis, Major, Massey, Merrifield, Murray,
                                            Nelson, Newton, Prosser, Robinson, Row, Shockley, Smith
                                            of Miami, Smith of Perry, Stanley, Summers, Tebbs.
                                            Thompson of Elkhart, Treadway, Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler,
                                            Whetzel and Wood. - 40. 
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Baird, Bowman,
                                            Boxley, Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark, Colgrove,
                                            Collier, Comstrock, Dobbins, Dougherty, Edwards,
                                            Firestone, Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hamilton of
                                            Wayne, Harvey, Harrison, Hartley, Jeffries, Jones,
                                            Jordan, Keefer, Kelly, Lawhead, McLain, Mansfield,
                                            Mellett, Miller, Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker
                                            of Warren, Power, Ritter, Rynearson, Scott, Sherman,
                                            Shields, Shall, Sayder, Stiles, Turpie, Whiteman,
                                            Wildman, and Mr. Speaker, - 48. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             So the bill was rejected.
                            Mr. DURHAM submitted a resolution, which was adopted, requiring the
                                    Committee on Education to inquire into the
                                expediency of amending the school law of 1855, requiring school
                                examiners to classify teachers to whose qualifications they certify.
                            
                        
                        
                            ELEVENTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
                             On motion by Mr. FIRESTONE [the order of business being suspended
                                for the purpose] the bill [S. 60] fixing the times of Court in the
                                llth District, was considered and passed the third and last reading,
                                by yeas 79, nays 0. 
                        
                        
                            ROBERT D. EWELL.
                            Mr. HARNEY, by leave, submitted the memorial of Robert D. Ewell,
                                embracing his claim of $321 00 for apprehending Jonathan S. Owen, a
                                fugitive from justice, and bringing him back from Canada to the
                                Montgomery County Jail, which was referred to the Committee
                                    on Claims.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Wayne, submitted a resolution, which was adopted,
                                requesting the Superintendent of the Hospital for the Insane to
                                furnish the House with a list of the number of patients in said
                                Institution, whose parents or guardians pay their expenses, also the
                                amount thus received and the counties from which tney come. 
                        
                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            On motion by Mr. SHERMAN, the ordor of business was suspended for the
                                consideration of bills in the calendar on the second reading.
                            The Judiciary Committee's bill [94] supplemental
                                to the exemption act of February 17, 1852, was considered on the
                                second reading, and referred to Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                            Mr. Hancock's bill [96] to repeal the second section of the county
                                boundary act, was referred to the Committee on County and
                                    Township Business.
                            Mr. Ritter's bill [97] to provide for the election of a
                                Superintendent of Public Printing, was laid on the table for the
                                present.
                            Mr. Whetzel's bill (93] amendatory of the Supervisor's act of June
                                18, 1852, was referred to the Committee on
                                Roads.
                            Mr. Edward's bill [99] to authorize the publication of certain
                                decisions of the Supreme Court, was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Dobbin's bill [100] to provide for a geological, minerological
                                and agricultural survey of the State[proposing $6,000 a year for
                                "two years lor the survey, and $5 a day for the geologist, and $3
                                for his assistants for time actually engaged] was referred to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture.
                            Mr. MURRAY submitted a resolution, that when the House adjourns it
                                shall be to meet again to morrow at 2 o'clock, in order that the
                                several committees of the House may attend to the business referred
                                to them.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD. That would be a saving of time. 
                            Mr. EDWARDS. The business referred to  the Committee on Benevolent
                                Institutions is of such a diameter as to require them to act when
                                the House is in session, and in order that they may have time to
                                discharge their duty, it is necessary that this resolution should be
                                adopted.
                            Mr. BAIRD opposed.
                            The resolution was adopted.
                            And then the House adjourned. 
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1859. 
                        
                        On motion by Mr. BLAIR, the reading of the journal was dispensed
                            with.
                        Mr. HEFFREN asked and obtained leave for the Committee on
                                Benevolent Institutions to visit the several State Asylums
                            this morning.
                        Mr. WAGNER offered a resolution, which was adopted, that when the Senate
                            adjourn, it adjourn till to-morrow morning at 9 o'clock.
                        Mr. WILSON, from the select committee, to which was referred his bill [3.
                            102] to amend the 3d section of an act to establish Courts of Common
                            Pleas, approved May 14, 1852, returned the same and recommended its
                            passage.
                        The report was concurred in, and the bill passed the second reading.
                        On motion by Mr. WILSON, it was considered as engrossed, and read the
                            third time.
                        On motion by Mr. WALLACE, the bill was referred to a select committee of
                            one from each Congressional District.
                        Mr. STEVENS, from a select, committee, returned Mr. Wilson's bill [S. 63]
                            to amend section 5 of an act to provide for equalizing the assessment of
                            real property, approved May 28, 1852, with amendments, and recommended
                            its passage.
                        The report was concurred in, and the bill, after amendment by the Senate,
                            passed the second reading. 
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced and read through the first,
                                time:
                            By Mr. KINLEY, [No. 134] providing for the assessment of taxes for
                                township purposes.
                            By Mr. McCLURE, [No. 135] to provide for issuing fee bills and
                                executions against sureties for costs brought against
                                non-residents.
                            By Mr. CRAVEN [No. 136] for the recovery of damages from any officer
                                who shall illegally charge, demand or collect more than is legally
                                due him as fees.
                            By Mr. LOMAX, [No. 137] to amend section 75 of an assessment act
                                approved June 21, 1852.
                            By Mr. GOODING, [No. 138] fixing the salary of State Librarian, and
                                dispensing with his assistant and a clerk.
                            By Mr COBB, [No. 139] for the protection of sidewalks in incorporated
                                towns, and prescribing punishment of persons injuring or obstructing
                                the same.
                            By Mr. WALLACE, [No. 140] to amend section 161 of a law reform, act,
                                approved June 18, 1852.
                            By Mr McLEAN, [No. 161] requiring Clerks of Circuit Courts to keep a
                                public record of moneys paid into their offices and moneys now in
                                their hands belonging to said offices. 
                        
                        
                            BILLS ON THE SECOND READING.
                            Mr.Anthony's [S.82] to amend section 196 of a law reform act,
                                approved June 18, 1852, was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Bobbs' [S. 83] to secure the rights of married women in real
                                property, was referred to a select committee of five.
                            Mr. Wagner's [S. 85] to provide for a general system of common
                                schools, establish town ship libraries, and for the regulation
                                thereof, was laid on the table and 100 copies ordered to be
                                printed.
                            Mr. Carnahan's [S. 86] to amend section 1 of an act regulating
                                marriages, approved March 5, 1852, was referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. Hill's [S. 88] to amend sections 3 and 4 of an act providing for
                                the protection of wild game, approved February 26, 1857, and also,
                                adding a section supplementary to said act, was referred to a select
                                committee of three, which is made to consist of Senators Wallace,
                                Weir and Hill.
                            Mr. Culver's [S. 89] to amend section 1 and repeal section 7 of an
                                act concerning interest oa money, approved May 27, 1852, was
                                referred to the Finance Committee.
                            Mr. Shoemaker's [S. 90] to provide for the collection, safe keeping
                                and disbursement of the public money, and fixing the salary of
                                Treasurer of State, was laid on the table, and 200 copies ordered to
                                be printed.
                            Mr. Jones' [S. 91] to provide compensation to persons who may bring
                                to justice fugitives from the same, was referred to the
                                    Committee on Finance.
                            Mr. Shoemaker's [S. 92] to provide for a more uniform mode of doing
                                township business, was referred to the Committee on County
                                    and Township Business.
                            .Mr. Hargrove's [S. 93] to amend section 15 of an act to establish a
                                bank with branches, approved May 3, 1855, was referred to the
                                    Committee on Banks.
                            Mr. Williams' [S. 94] to amend section 6 of an act for the
                                encouragement of agriculture, approved February 17, 1852, was
                                ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Conley's [S. 99] to provide for the protection of wild game, was
                                referred to the select committee, to which was referred the bill [S.
                                88.]
                            Mr Wallace's [S. 100] to provide for a more uniform mode of doing
                                township business, was referred to the Committee on County
                                    and Township Business.
                            [Mr. GREEN, by leave, offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                requesting the Secretary to announce the name of the Senator who
                                introduced a bill, whenever it is read ]
                            Mr. Johnston's [S. 101 ] to authorize County Treasurers to assess
                                property, which may bo omitted by assessors, and to legalize
                                assessments heretofore made by treasurers, was ordered to be
                                engrossed,
                            Mr. Odell's [S. 103] authorizing County Boards in certain cases to
                                hear and determine complaints against plank, gravel, turnpike or
                                McAdamized roads, was referred to the Committee on Corporations.
                            [Mr. ANTHONY, by consent, made a motion, which was agreed to, that
                                the special order for 2 
                        
                        
                    
                    
                
                
                


                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 31, 1859.
                        No. 6.
                    
                    
                        
                             o'clock to-day - being the Bill [S. 2] fixing the manner of electing
                                United States Senators - be postponed till Monday next, 2 o'clock P.
                                M.] Mr. Miller's [S. 104] in relation to abandoned plank, McAdamized
                                or other chartered highways, and repealing sec. 10 of a road act
                                approved May 10, 1852, was referred to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.
                        
                        
                        
                             ARMS, MUNITIONS AND EQUIPMENTS. 
                            Mr. WALLACE, by leave, offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                requiring the Quartermaster General to report to the Senate the
                                quota of arms, munitions, equipments, &c., of all kinds, to
                                which the State is entitled, and all other information in his
                                possession relating thereto.
                        

                        
                            KANSAS.
                            Mr. WALLACE, by leave, introduced a joint resolution, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS, Now that the Lecompton
                                            Constitution has been voted down by the people of
                                            Kansas, the only practical questions pertinent to that
                                            Territory, that can arise to disturb the peace of the
                                            Union are whether Kansas shall be admitted as a State at
                                            any time admission is demanded by her people, and
                                            whether the passage of laws for the regulation of the
                                            general and particular rights of the people of that
                                            Territory, shall be left to the people themselves, or to
                                            Congress.
                                        Therefore, be it Resolved, The House
                                            concurring herein, that our Senators in Congress are
                                            hereby instructed and our Representatives requested to
                                            vote for the admission of Kansas into the Union as a
                                            State, whenever the people thereof demand it; and that,
                                            to remove all obstruction from the way of such
                                            admission, the said Senators and Representatives vote,
                                            if such demand is made by the said people, for the
                                            repeal of that part of the "English Bill" which requires
                                            said Territory to have a population equal to the ratio
                                            for representative purposes in the States, before her
                                            people can hold another convention to form another
                                            Constitution preparatory to an application for admission
                                            as such State.
                                        Be lt further Resolved, That we
                                            recognize and insist upon the right of the people of
                                            Kansas to form and regulate their domestic institutions
                                            in their own way, subject only to the Constitution of
                                            the United States; and that, as incident thereto, we
                                            insist upon their right to establish such local laws and
                                            regulations relative to their property, and all its
                                            kinds, including slaves, as they shall deem proper; and
                                            such being the sentiment of the people of Indiana, our
                                            Senators are further instructed, and our Representatives
                                            requested, to vote against, and by every constitutional
                                            means oppose, the passage of any law by Congress having
                                            in view the establishment of a slave code for Kansas, or
                                            interference in any manner with the aforesaid rights of
                                            the people of that or any other Territory of the United
                                            States.
                                        Be it further Resolved, That certified
                                            copies of these resolutions be immediately forwarded to
                                            each member of Congress, and to both the occupants and
                                            claimants of seats in the United States Senate, from
                                            this State. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             On motion by Mr. WALLACE, it was made the special order for Tuesday
                                next, at 2 o'clock P. M.
                        
                        
                            SURETIES OF EXECUTORS, ADMINISTRATORS, &C. 
                            Mr. JENNINGS, by leave, offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                directing the Judiciary Committee to inquire whether there is any
                                law requiring Common Pleas Judges at stated periods, to institute
                                inquiry into the sufficiency of sureties of Executors,
                                Administrators and Guardians 
                        
                        
                             SINKING FUND. 
                            Mr. HENDRY, by leave, offered a resolution,, which was adopted,
                                requesting the President of the Sinking Fund to report how much of
                                said fund has been lost in any manner, and the aggregate amount now
                                loaned in each county.
                        
                        
                            ACTS OF 1853, 1855 AND 1857.
                            Mr. GOODING, by leave, offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                appointing a committee of three to examine and report what acts of
                                1853, '55, '57, are unconstitutional because of the failure to set
                                forth at full length in the amending act, the section or act
                                amended.
                            The committee is made to consist of Senators, Gooding, March and
                                Cobb. 
                        
                        
                            DEFICIENCY IN THE SWAMP LAND FUND.
                            Mr. MILLER, by leave, offered a preamble and resolution, which were
                                adopted, setting forth that whereas the Swamp Land Treasurer of
                                Pulaski county, pursuant to instructions from the Treasurer of
                                State, in 1854, deposited some $12,888 of the Swamp Land Fund
                                belonging to said county in the Wabash Valley Bank at Logansport,
                                which is yet wholly unpaid, as evidenced by certificates of deposit
                                now in the hands of the Treasurer of State; and whereas, by virtue
                                of a joint resolution approved March 9, 1857, it was made the duty
                                of the Attorney General to bring suit for the same, and no suit has
                                yet been instituted nor action taken to recover the same: and
                                whereas, it appears that there is a bond on file in the office of
                                Treasurer of State with ample surety for the repayment of all
                                deposits made in said Bank, executed to the Treasurer of State and
                                his successor in office: Therefore-
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Be it resolved, That the Judiciary Committee inquire into the condition
                                            of said claims, and, if need be, have power to send for
                                            persons and papers, and report, without delay, either by
                                            bill or recommending such measures as they may think
                                            proper for the recovery of said deposits.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. Wagner's bill, [S. 105] prescribing the forms to be used in
                                criminal cases, was read through the second time and referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.
                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        

                    
                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                        REPORTED BY ARIEL DRAPIER.
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            USURY LAWS.
                             The SPEAKER announced the special order viz: the consideration of
                                the several bills on the subject of usury and a conventional rate of
                                interest, which was to be considered in Committee of the
                                    Whole, and thereupon the House resolved into
                                    Committee of the Whole - Mr. Edwards in the
                                Chair - and took up the consideration of Mr Stanfield's bill [65] to
                                amend the 4th section of the usury statute, so as to allow the
                                recovery o principal and interest on contracts for more than legal
                                interest. The bills numbered 7, 22, and 75 were also read.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, proposed to amend Mr Stanfield's bill by adding a
                                provision, "that if over ten per cent, is so taken or received, it
                                shall be forfeited," which was rejected.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, said he occupied conservative ground. There
                                ought to be restriction upon money, such as belongs not to prop
                                City. It would not do to say, a horse shall not be sold for more
                                than a given sum. A standard of value could be fixed on money, and
                                therefore it could be made a legal tender the rate of interest
                                should be graduated to the necessities of trade. Most men know that
                                money was loaned at ten per cent, in violation of the usury statute.
                                It became the interest of men to violate the law. He declared no war
                                against banks, but desired to bring up individuals to a position
                                where they might compete with the banks in the business of loaning
                                money. The banks could violate the usury laws with impunity They
                                could loan on bills of exchange at 90 days and one per cent, per
                                quarter exchange - which makes ten per cent, per annum. But he had
                                been told that if ten per cent, were legalized the banks would come
                                in for ten per cent, and the exchange besides - so realizing 14 to
                                18 per cent, per annum. But he would provide against this, and
                                thereupon he expected the opposition of bankers to this proposed
                                interest law. The banks violated the Constitution, in this provision
                                which prohibits them from "taking a greater rate of interest, either
                                directly or indirectly, than that which is allowed by law to
                                individuals," So long as the law allowed no more than 6 per cent,
                                the money of the people of the State would be seeking investment in
                                other States where ten per cent is legal; and he reasoned at length
                                in favor of increasing the rate. He moved to strike out after the
                                enacting clause, and insert the substitute for his bill [No. 22]
                                heretofore recommended by the Committee on Rights and Privileges;
                                but - 
                            The CHAIRMAN decided the motion out of order.
                            Mr. NEBEKER proceeded to show that Mr. Stanfield's bill did not
                                repeal one statutory provision, which he read, and which favored the
                                banks. His proposition was to amend the first section of the law in
                                first volume of the Revised Statutes, page 343, so as to allow ten
                                per cent, on contract.
                            Mr. WHETZEL. The gentleman's proposition would lead farmers to
                                mortgage their farms and lose them. Some 23 or 24 years ago we had
                                the very law he proposes, and before that we had for a while the
                                repeal of all usury laws; but the people were tired of these
                                experiments, and fell back on the old system of six per cent.; and
                                he believed it was our wisdom now to adhere to that.
                            Mr. DURHAM proposed to amend, by adding in the proper place: "The
                                banks shall not receive a larger rate of interest than six per cent,
                                per annum.
                            Which was adopted.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN took ground against Mr. Stanfield's bill, and reasoned at
                                length in favor of a conventional rate as high as ten per cent.,
                                applicable alike to all persons. A man of honor would pay his
                                contract, &c.
                            Mr. HARNEY rehearsed the old argument against usurious interest,
                                which he derived from examples in the history of Rome, Lombardy and
                                Jewry. Whatever the use of capital was worth should be allowed; but
                                more than that was a tax or labor. The great interests of the people
                                should not be sacrificed to the wants of the present. What is money
                                worth? That was the question. Just as interest rose, labor became
                                depressed. A modern writer (Mr. Whipple) had demonstrated that money
                                was worth about 3 per cent in this country not more than 3 1/2 per
                                cent. How was it that manufacturing and railroad stock was worth
                                nothing, while bank stock was at a premium? It was the effect of
                                usury. Usury had ever been the prop of thrones, but it was dangerous
                                to republics. Because the banks charged exorbitant interest, was
                                that an argument to turn loose all moneyed men to exact as much
                                interest as they? He then looked at the class of men who were
                                petitioning for this high rate of interest. It was demanded by the
                                mercantile and money-leading class. It was not desired by one man in
                                ten. Legislation, instead of extending should curtail the evils of
                                usury. Pleading usury was no more dishonorable than to demand
                                usurious interest, &c.
                            Mr. STANFIELD explained the provisions of his bill. It was equity
                                that a man should receive the value of the use of his money. His
                                bill left the party demanding more than a legal rate, to be
                                proceeded against under the usury laws.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, proposed to amend "so that interest contracted for
                                or received shall not exceed ten percent.," and spoke to this
                                amendment. It was doubtful whether any regular business would
                                justify borrowing at any rate above six per cent.
                            The Rights and Privileges Committee's substitute
                                for Mr. Nebeker, of Warren's bill [22] being also referred to the
                                    Committee of the Whole, was now again read,
                                and the Chairman said he waited for a motion.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, moved to adopt the Committee's amendment to
                                his bill, which was precisely as he himself should have fixed it ,
                                at his leisure. It was simply shortening the original bill.
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON moved to report the bill back, and recommended its
                                indefinite postponement. He was opposed to changing the law, without
                                a clear expression of the will of the  people of the State in its favor, in
                                connection with good reasons for the change. He replied to the
                                argument of Mr. Nebeker, of Warren, who had shadowed forth several
                                reasons for the proposed change.
                            1. That gentleman had maintained that it was unreasonable to fix a
                                rate of interest on money; because money was constantly fluctuating
                                in value. Now, grant that this is true, what follows? Simply
                                this,that as interest is received in kind with the principal - is a
                                part of the principal - the per cent, will always bear the same
                                proportion to the principal. It must necessarily rise and fall in
                                the same ratio as the principal. This may be illustrated thus: Say,
                                A. loans B. $100, at 6 per cent, per annum. Now, if we grant that
                                $100 will to-day purchase 100 bushels of wheat, $6, the interest
                                reserved, will purchase 6 bushels. The wheat bought with the
                                interest, will thus bear the same proportion to that bought by the
                                principal, that the interest bears to the principal. Suppose that on
                                account of the abundance of wheat in the market to morrow, $100 will
                                purchase 200 bushels, the interest will purchase 12 bushels, which
                                sustains the same relation to the quantity bought with the principal
                                as before. Again, on the day after to-morrow, wheat has become so
                                scarce, that $100 will only purchase 50 bushels, and $6, the
                                interest, will purchase 3 bushels, which still sustains the same
                                proportion as before. And so it is in regard to every article of
                                value in the market.
                            2. It is urged that the present law is constantly violated. It is so
                                of others. The law against larceny is constantly violated. But does
                                any man therefore propose to enlarge the privileges of thieves. It
                                is only an additional reason for greater stringency, severer
                                penalties against those who violate the law. I can not listen with
                                the least forbearance to arguments resting upon such a moral
                                basis.
                            3. It is said the banks continually violate the usury laws. If that
                                be so, then let us do our duty; and see to it, that greater
                                restrictions are thrown around them, to keep them in the same bounds
                                as private lenders. I am for making it penal for any bank officer to
                                violate the law on this subject, as it is penal for private
                                individuals.
                            4. But the gentlemen say they desire to bring private lenders into
                                the field as competitors of banks, whereas they now deposit with the
                                banks at 4 per cent. Why do they deposit now instead of loan? For
                                this reason: Their money is safer in the banks - so much safer -
                                than in the hands of private borrowers, that they prefer the greater
                                safety and less interest, to the less safety and greater interest.
                                Therefore they deposit. Increase the rate of interest, and the banks
                                can afford to give six or eight per cent, for deposits as well as
                                they now can give four. This greater rate of interest will be given;
                                and the greater safety still existing will secure the deposits of
                                moneys now deposited.
                            5. It is said finally, that the money of the State will be driven out
                                of the State in order to secure ten per cent, where that is allowed.
                                If that is so it only proves that money can not be invested in the
                                State at a profit equal to ten per cent. If that is the case, it is
                                clear that if it should be loaned out here at that interest, the
                                borrower must either be ruined, or ruin those with whom he deals. It
                                is better that we should become lenders to other States, than
                                borrowers from them, even at six per cent. But, if you increase the
                                rate percent" to ten, and become borrowers from other States at that
                                rate, how long will it be before all your wealth will be transferred
                                to aliens? How long will it be before the people of Indiana will he
                                devoured by foreign usurers? If we should borrow $100,000,000 for
                                thirty years at ten per cent., it would beggar us all, and reduce us
                                to the condition of slaves. But, if the bringing of money into the
                                State was so desirable as it would seem to be, from arguments of
                                gentlemen, we ought to take off all restriction whatever. That would
                                flood us with foreign capital. But it would be a flood of ruin.
                            Mr. SHULL. The value of money like other things, was regulated by
                                demand and supply. When we stop the inlets of money we make it worth
                                more. Would the people pay a greater interest under the legal rate
                                of ten per cent.? No sir: but the supply would come in, and the rate
                                of interest would go down. With a plentiful supply, we would get it
                                at a low rate. Ohio, Illinois and Michigan admitted this rate, and
                                the necessity of the case demanded a conventional interest in the
                                State of Indiana. This four per cent, against us amounted to a
                                prohibition of the investment of money in our State.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN replied to the Speaker and Mr. Harney. The practice of
                                business men showed that public opinion was already prepared for a
                                high rate of interest. Money was conventional, and he saw not the
                                wisdom of the restraints of law as against the will of the masses.
                                That will, as far as the people act at all in the case, was in favor
                                of this bill. The value of money would regulate itself; and if ten
                                per cent, were legal, he believed there would be less violation of
                                the law. Did capitalists in Ohio and Illinois eat the people up
                                through usury? Was it not rather true, that both of those States
                                were commercially really far in advance of us? There was no answer
                                coming to sustain the argument of gentlemen. No sir, the effect of
                                our six per cent, law was to stint ourselves - to keep capital away
                                and leave our State without improvement. Perhaps nine-tenths of the
                                goods consumed in Indiana were purchased in Cincinnati and Chicago.
                                He would legalize what public opinion had already fastened upon, us
                                in practice.
                            Mr. GIFFORD said he remained yet without instruction on this
                                question: from all he had heard he could not perceive that the State
                                would be benefitted by the change proposed in this bill. It was
                                admitted that our capitalists were getting ben per cent, without the
                                State, and if that were better than investment at home, he was
                                content. Again, if it were ever morally wrong to receive ten per
                                cent., could it be made right by law? As for his people, they were
                                taking ten per cent., and he supposed they would not kick at a law
                                to that effect.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY moved also, to postpone indefinitely Mr. Stanfield's
                                bill. That was a proposition to encourage the taking of illegal
                                interest. He believed the House had determined not to advance the
                                rate, and therefore he would maintain the old ground.
                            
                            The motion was agreed to - affirmative 40, negative 38.
                            Mr. TURPIE made an ineffectual motion that the committee rise, and
                                the question recurred on the motion of Mr. Speaker Gordon, as
                                amended now, to postpone both bills.
                            The motion was rejected.
                            Mr.STANFIELD moved that the committee recommend his bill [68] to the
                                House.
                            Mr. GOLGROVE proposed to amend, by striking out all after the
                                enacting clause, and inserting: "That in any written contract for
                                the payment of money loaned, it shall be lawful for the parties to
                                contract for the payment of any rate of interest not exceeding ten
                                per cent."
                            He reasoned against the bill of Mr. Stanfield, and rehearsed the
                                argument for ten per cent. He believed, as a result of such a legal
                                rate or contract, the borrower would generally get money at a
                                cheaper rate than at present. He would not legalize ten per cent
                                except on contract.
                            Mr. USREY proposed to amend the amendment by adding
                            
                                "Sec. And all loans made by banks shall be
                                    upon notes payable at the banking-house of the bank, or if it is
                                    to be paid upon bills payable in any other place, the bank shall
                                    not be permitted to receive any exchange on the notes or
                                    bills.''
                            
                            Which was agreed to; and then Mr. Colgrove's amendment as amended was
                                also agreed to.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN moved that the committee recommend that the bill [No. 22]
                                be laid on the table, which was adopted.
                            Mr. DAVIS. And the bill [No. 65] as amended.
                            The latter motion was rejected.
                            Mr. DAVIS. The banks have now no right to take more than 6 per cent.,
                                and this pretence about exchange and imaginary shipments was in
                                violation of law. No business ever was founded on capital borrowed
                                at 10 percent. The arguments for this high rate were conflicting. It
                                was better to loan to aliens at 10 per cent., than to eat up our own
                                substance by usury. Usury was a bleeding of the poor - a depleting
                                of the life-blood of labor. If it were possible for horses to become
                                a legal tender, and colts change, then there might be force in these
                                arguments for a high conventional rate of interest. He was willing
                                to compromise on the bill of the gentlemen from St. Joseph. If you
                                put the rate at 10 per cent, the banks will still receive their
                                advance on that, by a thousand contrivances known to the initiated.
                                He was not here to represent the interests of the banks, though
                                himself concerned in that business. He represented the interests of
                                his constituents. The effect of this resolution would be to let the
                                sharks loose upon the labor of the State. Let Ohio and Illinois
                                borrow at 10 per cent, if they will, but let us not eat up one
                                another here in Indiana.
                            Mr. COLGROVE was glad to hear a banker on the side of the people. He
                                insisted that the banks were restrained in the terms of the
                                amendment.
                            Mr. DAVIS said he would go with the gentleman to tie up and restrain
                                the hands of the banks from exacting illegal interest.
                            Mr. COLGROVE. This, then, prohibits the banks from taking exchange on
                                bills. He alleged that under the present law, what money was not
                                loaned out of the State, went on deposit into the banks, to be
                                loaned again to our people at four per cent, more than the law
                                allows an individual to take on a direct loan.
                            Mr. DAVIS hoped the gentleman would not deny to him the possibility
                                of faithfully representing the interests of his constituents, though
                                he might own a little bank stock. He hoped that he would not attempt
                                to pass a measure under the cry of a cat in the meal, when it was
                                patent that his own argument was that of banking interest on this
                                question, &c.
                            Mr. AUSTIN spoke in favor of an increase of the rate of interest to
                                prevent the investment of our capital without the State, which was
                                calculated to cripple every home interest. The present usury law was
                                violated more frequently than any other statute, and he reasoned at
                                length in favor of its amendment, as in the pending bill.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone. The amendment of Mr. Usrey did not restrict
                                banks inre-gard to loans except in the case of bills. To extend the
                                rate of interest takes money from the man compelled to borrow. Who
                                makes the money ? The man that has the money to loan, or the man
                                that borrows? The money-leader, certainly. Then who are gentlemen
                                legislating for? He might, but for one thing, favor Mr. Usrey's
                                amendment. He was in favor of restricting the banks from their
                                usurious profits. He was opposed to the bill and every amendment. It
                                was legislating for the capitalist and against the poor man. It was
                                no relief to compel men to pay a higher rate of interest. The last
                                amendment was a plaster over the first.
                            On motion by Mr. Speaker GORDON, the committee now rose and the
                                chairman reported progress, and asked leave to sit again on
                                Wednesday next, at 2 o'clock, P. M.
                            The report was concurred in.
                        
                        
                            SWAMP LAND FRAUDS.
                            On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, (the order of business being
                                suspended for the purpose,) the concurrent resolution of the Senate
                                to appoint a joint select committee on Swamp Land Frauds, was taken
                                up and concurred in; and the SPEAKER, on the part of the House of
                                Representative, makes said committee to consist of Messrs. Hamilton
                                of Boone, and Harney.
                            The House then (at 5:15 o'clock) adjourned. 
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        IN SENATE

                        
                             Thursday, JANUARY 27, 1859. 
                        
                        In the absence of the Lieutenant Governor, on motion by Mr. GREEN, the
                            Senator from Jefferson (Mr. Cravens) took the Chair and called the
                            Senate to order. 
                        
                            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, AND REMONSTRANCES.
                            Mr. CRAVENS presented a petition from sundry citizens of Madison,
                                Indiana, praying for the repeal of the 9th section of an act to
                                reduce the law incorporating the city of Madison, approved January
                                15, 1849, which was referred to a select committee of three.
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                             Mr. RICE, from the Committee on Finance,  returned Mr. Cooper's bill (S.
                                110) to prohibit Clerks of Circuit and Common Pleas Courts, and
                                their deputies, from practicing as attorneys at law in the courts in
                                which they are deputies; recommending indefinite postponement.
                            Mr. GOODING objected to concurrence in the report, and desired to
                                know the reason why the commitee recommended an indefinite
                                postponement of the bill.
                            Mr. RICE replied, that after considering article 7, section 21, of
                                the State Constitution, the committee were of opinion such an act as
                                contemplated in the bill would be unconstitutional.
                            Mr. GOODING thought you might just as well say that judges might
                                practice in their own courts, as to allow clerks and deputy clerks
                                to do so. He moved to recommit the bill to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                            Mr. MURRAY thought the Committee on Finance did
                                not view this matter right. In his opinion the Legislature had no
                                power to pass a law that any individual of good moral character
                                should not practice law in any court; but we have the power to say
                                that an officer shall not, while he is such officer, or acting as
                                such officer.The motion was agreed to, and the bill recommitted to
                                the Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN, from the same commitee, returned his bill (S. 53)
                                authorizing County Commissioners to award compensation to persons
                                who may bring to justice fugitives from the same, recommending its
                                passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. JONES, from the same committee, returned his bill (S. 19) to
                                provide compensation to persons who may bring to justice fugitives
                                from the same, recommending that it lay on the table.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON, from a select committee, returned his bill (S. 62)
                                for the relief of the Indiana University, and to increase and extend
                                its benefits by providing for the sale of the University lands,
                                &c., (19,000 acres) under the direction of its Board of
                                Trustees, after appraisement, on a credit of ten years, recommending
                                its passage.
                            Mr. GOODING thought this was the worst time that could be chosen to
                                dispose of these lands. He would not say he was opposed to the bill,
                                but simply wished to be assured that it was all right, and for that
                                purpose moved its reference to the Committee on
                                    Education.
                            Mr. WAGNER said that the University must have some iunds, but he did
                                not wish to authorize the sale of more land than was necessary, be
                                cause it was a bad time to sell now. He knew of land belonging to
                                the University which a railroad would run through in five years,
                                when the land would be worth twice as much as it is now.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON saw no objection to this bill as it is, and he had no
                                objection to the reference, except that it would retard the passage
                                of the bill.
                            Mr. RICE understood that the University was in need of funds. $10,000
                                of debt is hanging over them, and as they ask to be relieved from
                                that embarrassment, he hoped this bill for their relief would not be
                                retarded in its progress.
                            Mr. McLEAN thought there was no need of referring this bill to the
                                    Committee on Education, and apprehended that
                                the Senate was fully prepared to vote upon the bill now.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN was in favor of the bill going to the Committee
                                    on Education, and be scrutinized closely. He looked
                                upon this college as being one of the best endowed in the world.
                            Mr. HENDRY would be under the necessity of voting against this bill
                                were the vote taken now, because he had been unable to inform
                                himself of the condition of the financial affairs of the University.
                                He did not see the use of bringing all these lands into market, when
                                there was need of the sale of but one-half of them.
                            Mr. MARCH was disposed to vote for this bill upon the information he
                                had obtained from those in whom he had confidence, but he had no
                                objection to its going to the Committee on Education, as
                                proposed.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON spoke in explanation of the condition of the affairs
                                of the University, in which he showed, among other things, that it
                                was at this time in a very flourishing condition.
                            The motion was agreed to, and the bill recommitted to the
                                    Committee on Education.
                            Mr. STEELE, from the Committee on Banks, returned
                                Mr. Conley's resolution in relation to suppressing the circulation
                                of foreign bank bills of a less denomination than $10; recommending
                                that it is inexpedient to legislate upon the subject.
                            Mr. MARCH expressed his dessent from the report. If there ever was a
                                favorable time for restricting the issue of small notes, now is the
                                time We have now a greater supply of specie currency than ever
                                before. There has been produced from the mines of Australia and
                                California within the past few years more gold than was in existence
                                before. He then indulged in a few remarks having particular
                                reference to the Bank of the State of Indiana.
                            Mr. HAMILTON objected to the Senator's reflections upon the Bank of
                                the State of Indiana.
                            Mr. WALLACE desired to have a law on this subject that should apply
                                to the banks of our own State.
                            Mr. STEELE had declared here time and again that he had not one
                                dollar's interest in the Bank of the State either directly or
                                indirectly, but he regretted that no question relating to the trade
                                of the country can come up here without having Senators talk about
                                the iron heel of banks. The committee were induced to make this
                                report from comparing the experience of other States upon this
                                subject. In Illinois they have a law prohibiting the circulation of
                                foreign bank bills of a small denomination, but the law is not
                                carried out; it is a dead letter on the Statute Book. In Iowa they
                                have a similar law, and yet small notes constitute almost the entire
                                circulation of that State.
                            Mr. WALLACE. Suppose this Bank of the State were stricken down, how
                                long would it take the free banks to issue a circulation sufficient
                                to supply the demand for a home currency in this State?
                            Mr. STEELE thought it would take some time. The entire circulation of
                                all the free banks of the State amounts to about $900,000. They can not issue a dollar
                                unless by permission of the officers of State and upon the deposit
                                of stocks to the amount of $10 for every $100 issued. It is now with
                                difficulty that these banks keep up their securities there. The Bank
                                of the State will be the only bank in operation in the State in a
                                few years.
                            Mr. HEFFREN was opposed to the report. He moved to lay the report on
                                the table.
                            The motion was agreed to. 
                        
                        
                             REDEMPTION OF BONDS, STOCKS, &C. 
                             The special order for 10 o'clock, Mr. Bobbs' bill, (S. 25) to
                                provide for the redemption or purchase of Bank bonds, State stocks,
                                United States stocks, &c., the question being on concurring in
                                the report with the amendments proposed by the committee to which it
                                was referred - coming up - 
                            Mr. STUDABAKER moved to amend by striking out from the enacting
                                clause and inserting an entire new bill.
                            On motion by Mr. CONNER, the consideration of this subject was
                                further postponed till tomorrow 10 o'clock. 
                        
                        
                            SHINPLASTERS.
                            Mr. HEFFREN, from the Bank Committee, by leave,
                                returned the bill (H. R. 12) to prevent the issue of unauthorized
                                paper currency, with amendments, recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the bill was considered as engrossed.
                            Mr. GOODING. May not a third person maliciously put in circulation
                                bills and thus make it almost impossible to prove a negative?
                            Mr. HEFFREN. It is in that the signature to the note or bill is prima facie evidence that the person whose name is
                                put there executed it aid is responsible for the issue.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON. The courts have decided that we have no right to make
                                a retrospective law, affecting bills in circulation at the time of
                                the passage of the law
                            Mr. HEFFREN. The bill provides that a failure or refusal to redeem
                                their issues shall be deemed a misdemeanor.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER thought the bill unconstitutional.
                            Mr. BOBBS was in favor of legislation of the most stringent
                                character.
                            Mr. BENNETT thought there ought to be a diflerence between banks
                                unauthorized and banks authorized; and this bill refers not to
                                regular banks, but to unauthorized banks, as he understands it
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed to amend by adding to the first section the
                                words: "Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
                                giving the right to any free bank of this State or the Bank of the
                                State of Indiana, to issue or put in circulation any other paper
                                than that authorized by the laws under which they were created."
                            Mr. GOODING. That amendment commits this Senate and the State to the
                                existence of the Bank of the State as an institution. He would vote
                                for no bill that acknowledges the existence of that institution. He
                                moved to strike out the words "free banks of this State or the Bank
                                of the State of Indiana," and insert in lieu thereof the words
                                "banks created under the laws of this State."
                            Mr. MURRAY accepted of the amendment.
                            Mr. ANTHONY expressed himself as satisfied with the amendment
                                proposed by the Senator from Howard, [Mr. Murray.]
                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to recommit the bill to the Committee on Banks,
                                with instructions to strike out all after the enacting clause and
                                insert an entire new bill - which was read at the Secretary's
                                desk.
                            Mr. WALLACE preferred the substitute proposed. The House bill made
                                the offense punishable as a misdemeanor, and the substitute made the
                                punishment as for felony, and will effectually crush out all
                                unauthorized currency. There is nothing we should consider so
                                carefully as a criminal statute. The proposition in the House bill
                                making this prima facie evidence of guilt, is in
                                violation of the oldest rule in the criminal evidence books, viz:
                                that every presumption shall be in favor of a man's innocence. This
                                House bill proposes that rule shall be pulled up by the roots.
                            Mr. CONNER thought the controversy on every bill of this kind which
                                had been before the Senate, was with reference to the phraseology
                                Senators do not seem to differ so much about the principles which
                                should be carried out.
                            Mr. MURRAY. The difference is almost like that between tweedle-dum
                                and tweedle-dee. Every Senator must not insist upon having every
                                bill just exactly as he wants it. If we are not prepared to give and
                                take we can not get anything done. The bill reported by the
                                committee is as much as he could ask upon this subject. The adoption
                                of the substitute would be the cause of difficulty with the House of
                                Representatives. The best policy will be to take the House bill,
                                amend it to suit our views, pass it, and it will then only require
                                simple concurrence on their part. He moved to lay the motion to
                                recommit, with instructions to adopt the substitute proposed, on the
                                table.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. CRAVEN moved to recommit with instructions to strike out that
                                provision of the bill which provides that notes shall be prima facie evidence of guilt.
                            On motion by Mr. HARGROVE, this motion was laid on the table - yeas
                                33, nays 11.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to amend by adding to the fourth section the
                                words "unless its execution be denied under oath by the
                                defendant."The motion was agreed to by unanimous consent.
                            Mr. WALLACE moved to amend by making the offense a felony instead of
                                a misdemeanor. Under our present law misdemeanors are never
                                punished; but felonies are in the jurisdiction of the grand jury,
                                and they are bound to find bills. In order to make this offense
                                punishable, it has got to be removed from the list of misdemeanors
                                and made a felony.
                            The motion not being received by unanimous consent - the bill having
                                been read the third time and upon its passage - the amendment
                                proposed, was ruled out of order.
                            
                            Mr. MURRAY demanded the previous question.
                            There being a second, and the main question ordered, under its
                                operation the bill was finally passed the Senate yeas 43, nays
                                1.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the title was amended by adding these
                                words: "And to punish the putting away of broken bank notes or the
                                notes of banks which have suspended specie payment.
                            Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, which was adopted, that when the
                                Senate adjourn it adjourn till 9 o'clock to-morrow.
                            And then the Senate adjourned.
                        

                    
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                        
                             Thursday, JANUARY 27, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                             Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, presented the resolution of a late public
                                meeting at West Lebanon, praying for the passage of Mr. Good-win's
                                Temperance bill(the Senate bill similar to that of Mr. Nebeker)which
                                was referred to the Committee on Temperance.
                            M. MURRAY presented the petition of Jacob and John Soffer, asking for
                                indemnification for their ouster from title to a quarter section of
                                land in Kosciusko county, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Claims.
                            Mr. CARR presented the petition of sundry citizens, asking for John
                                F. Wyly & Son further time to complete their Charleston and
                                Jeffersonville road, which, on the motion of Mr. Davis, was referred
                                to a select committee, which the Speaker makes to consist of Messrs.
                                Carr, Davis, Bowman, Comstock and Sullivan.
                            Mr. COTTON presented the petition of Samuel W. Ritchey and others,
                                for the establishment of an Agricultural College within five miles
                                of the city of Indianapolis, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture.
                            Mr. COLLIER presented the petition of Henry Winter, Alonzo Hubbard
                                and others, printers of the State of Indiana, asking that "the
                                various schemes, strategems and low bids, looking to a reduction in
                                the price of the public printing," be "treated with merited
                                contempt," and he moved that it be referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. RITTER. There were quite a number of these petitions, and he
                                thought, perhaps, it would be best to pile them up with the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges; which was
                                agreed to.
                            Mr. SULLIVAN and Mr. SHULL presented similar petitions, which took
                                the same direction.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, presented the petition of Levi Raymond - for
                                relief - which was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary, with instructions to inquire, &c.
                            Mr. MELLETT presented the petition of Caleb White and others, for a
                                more stringent law against sheep killing and other dogs, which was
                                referred to the Committee on Agriculture.
                            Mr. Hall, of Grant, presented two temperance petitions, which were
                                referred to the Temperance Committee. 

                        
                        
                            BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                             Mr. SCOTT. Mr. Speaker, I have been justinformed that the Senate
                                insists on taking 600 copies of the Legislative
                                    Sentinel for that body alone, and that the Door keeper
                                under our resolution is to take five hundred copies for the House of
                                Representatives. That was not my understand ng when I voted for that
                                resolution, and I move to suspend the order of business to enable me
                                to move to reconsider the vote adopting that resolution.
                            Mr. DAVIS. This matter has been up two or three times, and there can
                                be no room for misunderstanding as to its being a concurrent
                                resolution. It was a resolution of this House. We can not, at this
                                time prudently talk about acting again on these resolutions of the
                                two Houses, passed more than a week since. We perfectly understood
                                what we were doing.
                            Mr. SCOTT. That was not my understanding. The friends of the
                                resolution understood that two hundred copies of the paper were to
                                be taken by the Senate, and three hundred by the House. With that
                                understating I voted for it. I never understood that the order of
                                the Houses was to extend to $1,100.
                            Mr. RITTER. They worried us into the passage of this resolution, and
                                it is nothing but right that we should now worry them a little in
                                turn.
                            Mr. STANFIELD I suppose this question is settled - and that the House
                                will be unwilling to sustain this motion. I am not resposible for
                                the understanding of gentlemen, but I will say this: that unless the
                                number of copies provided for in these resolutions are taken, the
                                Reporters will be unable to make the reports the Legislature seem to
                                desire. I am satisfied that it will be much better for the country
                                and for us to have a clear, succinct and reliable statement
                                published of what transpires in these halls something that will give
                                the position taken by members upon the propositions and bills to
                                come before the Legislature, and we have had an illustration of what
                                these reports will be. We have taken the various newspapers as
                                heretofore, and I think their publishers have not treated us fairly.
                                I have no doubt that it was the clear understanding of the House and
                                the publishers themselves, that those papers should employ
                                reporters, and furnish reports of the proceedings of this session,
                                similar to those of the Legislative Sentinel, but
                                so soon as the contracts are made, we are bound by them, end the
                                publishers refuse or neglect to make the reports we expected. Now,
                                sir, how are we to obviate this difficulty? The Reporter [Mr.
                                Drapier] is willing if this mode of compensation is provided for
                                him, to make the reports we desire and publish them in this paper.
                                The only compensation he gets for making and publishing these
                                reports, is what he gets under this order, after paying for the
                                printing in the newspaper and in the book form and I am assured by
                                him that he will be entirely unable to furnish these reports in the
                                manner proposed, unless the entire number subscribed for in both
                                resolutions shall be taken. He says, and I rely upon him as a
                                gentleman of intelligence and integrity, that the order for a less
                                number will not be a sufficient compensation ? or his work. I hope,
                                therefore, that the House will not suspend the rules, or if they do,
                                that  the resolution, when taken
                                up, will not be reconsidered.
                            Mr. GIFFORD. If this question is pressed, 1 shall insist upon a call
                                of the House. I am satisfied that every member of this body who
                                voted for this resolution, understood that five copies were to be
                                taken by each member of this House. I have consulted with my
                                colleague in the Senate, and he understands that the Senate are to
                                take 600 copies, and we have agreed together that the whole number
                                will be sufficient to supply every library in our county with a
                                copy. I see my friend from Adams here, and several other members on
                                this side of the House are absent, and I must insist on a call if
                                gentlemen press this matter.
                            Mr. BOYD. In the discussion of this question of taking papers, as
                                upon other questions, the country suffers more from too much than
                                too little legislation. Had we understood ourselves at the start we
                                should not have been put to so much trouble. In the beginning the
                                proposition was to take two papers - the Journal
                                and Sentinel. I voted for that. After that there
                                were two others added. Then we got up the project of employing a
                                Reporter and concluded to take none of the papers. Finally we
                                concluded to take the papers upon the condition that the publishers
                                should furnish Reporters for themselves. After that, when we came to
                                consider the project of the Legislative Sentinel,
                                I was favorable to taking that by individual members - not by the
                                State. But the House decided otherwise; and I can not see how any
                                one could misunderstand that resolution. The Reporter stated, by his
                                friends here and elsewhere, that he could not get up the reports
                                unless he had a thousand copies authorized. If gentlemen could not
                                understand that, he is not to blame. I voted against that - being
                                willing at the same time to take the work and pay for it out of my
                                own pocket. But now, Mr. Speaker, since the order is passed, I see
                                no necessity of consuming time in discussing that question, and so
                                spending a larger amount of money than the reports would cost. I am
                                opposed to reconsideration.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, spoke at length against the resolution,
                                giving his construction the same with that of Mr. Scott and the
                                Doorkeeper, and proceeding to point out several inaccuracies in the
                                proceedings of the extra session as they are reported in the Legislative Sentinel.
                             After further discussion by Mr. Gifford, Mr. Harney, Mr. Hunter, Mr.
                                Mellett and Mr. Murray,
                            Mr. DOBBINS demanded the previous question, which was sustained, and
                                under its force the question on suspending the order of business was
                                taken and resulted - yeas 42, nays 48, as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin,Black, Boxley,
                                            Branham,Brotherton, Clark, Claypool,Collier, Comstock,
                                            Cotton,Davidson, Duvall, Fordyce, Hall of Grant, Hall of
                                            Rush, Hamilton, of Boone, Harrison, Hunter, Jeffries,
                                            Johnston, Jones, Kelly, Major, Mansfield, Mellett,
                                            Miller, Martin,Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren,
                                            Parks, Power, Ritter, Robinson, Rynerson, Scott,
                                            Sherman, Shields, Smith of Miami, Tebbs, Thompson of
                                            Elkhart, Whetzel, and Wild man - 42. 
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Blythe, Bowman, Carr,
                                            Cavins,Clayton, Clements, Davis, Dobbins, Dougherty,
                                            Durham, Early, Eastham, Edwards, Firestone, Gifford,
                                            Gregory, Griffin,Hancock, Harney, Hartley, Jordan,
                                            Kempf, Lawheaed, McLain, Massey, Merrifield, Murray,
                                            Nelson, Parrett, Prosser, Row, Shockley, Shull, Smith of
                                            Perry, Snyder, Stanley, Stanfield, Stiles, Sullivan,
                                            Thompson of Madison, Turpie, Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler,
                                            Whiteman, Wood and Mr. Speaker - 48. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             So the order of business was not suspended.
                            Mr. PARKS presented the petition of H. B. Walbridge and others, on
                                the subject of a more adequate remuneration for the services of
                                "small officers in State cases;" which was referred to the
                                    Committee on County and Township
                                Business.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD presented the petition"Of the Trustees of the town of
                                Carlisle, asking that their acts in connection with the matter of
                                the assessment of taxes for the erection of a school, house in said
                                town may be legalized, which was referred to the Committee
                                    on Education.
                            Mr. EDWARDS presented the memorial of D. P. Hutchinson, relative to
                                the protection and improvement of the breed of horned cattle which,
                                after a discussion of its merits by Messrs. Comstock, Edwards and
                                Murray, was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.
                            Mr. McLEAN presented a memorial in reference to the jurisdiction of
                                Justices of the Peace, asking that the same be extended to one
                                hundred dollars in civil cases, and to all cases of small offenses,
                                where the penalty does not exceed fifty dollars, so that there can
                                be no appeal taken therefrom; which was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. THOMPSON, of Madison. What has become of the Senate bill which
                                proposes to transfer the County of Madison to the 7th Judicial
                                Circuit. I wish it to be brought forward as soon as possible, for
                                our court comes on the fourth Monday in next month.
                            The SPEAKER. It has been referred to a select committee, of which Mr.
                                Brotherton is chairman. 

                        
                        
                            THE EDWARDS AND FIRESTONE CASE.
                            Mr. STANFIELD, from the Committee on Elections,
                                read a unanimous report on the contested election case for the seat
                                ot the Hon. James B. Firestone, a Representative for the counties of
                                Huntington and Whitley, made by Isaac B. Barker, for Caleb W.
                                Edwards, concluding with the expression of the opinion of the
                                committee that James B. Firestone is the legally elected
                                Representative for said counties, in this body.
                             The report was concurred in unanimously, and it was ordered to be
                                placed on the files of the Clerk.
                            Mr. STILES, from the Judiciary Committee, returned his bill (57)
                                relative to contests of foreign wills and testaments, with a
                                recommendation that the same do pass, and proposing an amendment of
                                the title, so as to read: An act supplemental to an act entitled an
                                act prescribing who may make a will, what shall be devised, and
                                regulating contests thereof, approved may 31, 1852
                            .The SPEAKER. The Chair having reconsidered the matter, will hold
                                that neither a member nor a committee can propose the amendment of a
                                title, till the bill has passed the third reading.
                            The report of the committee (with this exception) was now concurred
                                in, and the bill was con- 
                                considered as engrossed, and passed the third reading by yeas-80,
                                nays 0.
                            On motion by Mr. STILES, the title was then amended to read as above.
                                So the bill passed the House of Representatives.
                            Mr. MELLETT, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned the bill (76) to prohibit Clerks and Deputy Clerks from
                                practicing law, &c., and declaring it a misdemeanor to refuse to
                                issue writs, &c., with an amendment by way of substitute for the
                                2nd section, to-wit:
                            SEC. 2. Judges of all the Courts of Record in this
                                State, are hereby prohibited from practicing law in this State.'
                            SEC. 3. Repealing conflicting laws.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY hoped the report, would not be concurred in. He was
                                opposed to prohibiting Common Pleas Judges from practicing, because
                                $800 a year was not an adequate salary. He was opposed that
                                provision of the bill which prohibits Deputy Clerks from practicing
                                law. It was particularly calculated to operate against young
                                lawyers.
                            Mr. MELLETT. The duties of a judge and lawyer were not consistent
                                with each other The Common Pleas Judge frequently had a partner, and
                                such an arrangement could not be satisfactory to the people. The
                                bill provides that a Deputy Clerk shall not practice in the Court in
                                which he is an officer. The bill was eminently just in every
                                particular.
                            Mr. PARRETT. The Judges of Common Pleas in his part of the State
                                could not maintain themselves upon $800. But he would seek the
                                remedy in a reorganization of that Court, which should give the
                                judges an adequate salary. He moved to refer the bill to the
                                Committee on the Organization of Courts.
                            Mr. DOBBINS concurred with Mr. Dougherty. He considered the bill
                                conflicted with the constitutional provision authorizing every
                                citizen of the State of good moral character to practice law.
                            Mr. PARRETT'S motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. MELLETT, from the same committee, also reported a bill, declaring
                                it a misdemeanor for any Clerk of the Circuit or Common Pleas Courts
                                to refuse to issue writs and summonses, defining penalty therefor,
                                which was passed the first reading.

                        
                        
                            REMOVAL OF DEAD BODIES.
                            Mr. SCOTT, from the same committee, returned Mr. Hamilton, of
                                Boone's, bill (17) to prevent the illegal removal of dead bodies,
                                recommending indefinite postponement.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, called for the reading of the bill. It was
                                merely changing the offense from a misdemeanor to a felony. He hoped
                                the House would not concur in the report.
                            Mr. GIFFORD. It was only necessary to enforce existing laws on this
                                subject, to accomplish all that could be desired on this subject. A
                                thousand dollars fine was an ample sanction for the law against this
                                offense. What right could the Coroner have to give permission to
                                enter the Potter's field? He preferred the existing law.
                            Mr. BAIRD thought the bill prescribed a punishment too severe to be
                                executed. It were better policy to maintain a law that could be
                                enforced.
                            Mr. RITTER. There was inequality against the medical profession, in
                                that the State Library contained no work in medicine, whilst it is
                                full of law books; yet the physician was vigorously prosecuted for
                                malpractice in surgery, and surgery could not be understood without
                                dissection - an act for which this bill proposes to send a man to
                                the peniteniiary - to disfranchise him, &c. The present law was
                                sufficiently stringent. There was a morbid sensibility and public
                                feeling on this subject in many places.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, was heard again in reply, and in defense of
                                the bill.
                            Mr. KEMPF. The foundation of medical knowledge was Anatomy, and from
                                Anatomy came surgery, a most important branch of the profession. No
                                physician should be allowed to practice without a diploma.
                                &c.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill indefinitely postponed.
                            
                        
                        
                            CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION
                            Mr. DAVIS, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned his bill (No. 1) for a Constitutional Convention, with
                                amendments by way of substitute - prescribing that the question of
                                calling said Convention, shall be submitted to the people on the day
                                of April next; that if the expression be in the affirmative, the
                                Governor shall issue his proclamation for the election of Delegates,
                                (one from each Senatorial District) at the general election in
                                October next - the said Convention to meet and be held in the Hall
                                of the House of Representatives, on the day of November, 1859the
                                Constitutional amendments of said Convention to be submitted for the
                                confirmation of the people, by the next General Assembly.
                            Mr. DAVIS stated the general provisions of the bill. The whole was
                                embraced in one question: Are we willing to submit this question to
                                the people? It was just devolving power upon the people, where
                                reposes all power in a Government like ours. It might be objected,
                                that the Constitution provides for its amendment. If Constitutional
                                provisions for its own amendment were binding, then we come still
                                under the first Constitution. If the bill pass, there would not be
                                cast in the county of Floyd 300 votes against the proposition.
                            The report was concurred in, and the amendment adopted.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS moved to lay the bill on the table and print 300
                                copies.
                            The motion was lost.
                            Mr. HUNTER proposed to amend, by striking out the words, "one from
                                each Senatoriol District," and inserting these words: "one from each
                                Congressional District, and two from the State at large;" and he
                                spoke to this amendment - admitting the popular demand for a new
                                Constitution - defending the amendment on the ground of economy,
                                &c.
                            Mr. SHULL proposed to amend further, by striking out the words, "one
                                for each Congressional District," and Inserting, "one from each
                                Representative District."
                            Mr. DAVIS advocated the number, fifty. The former Convention was too
                                large150. The bill does not provide for a reporter of speeches, as
                                in the former convention. The
                                argument for the amendment of the gentleman from Monroe went too far
                                and destroyed itself. It was approximating the one-man power. He was
                                willing the people should act upon any question concerning their
                                rights, and he was assured that a majority of the people of Indiana
                                desired to get rid of the rickety Constitution under which we now
                                live.
                            Mr. DOBBINS. Is the gentleman in favor of amending the present
                                Constitution?
                            Mr. DAVIS. I am. I would strike the whole thing out if I could get a
                                whack at it.
                             Mr. AUSTIN spoke against the proposed amendments.
                            [Mr. McLean, Mr. Colgrove, Mr. Collier, Mr. Wildman, Mr. Merrifield
                                and Mr. Stanley had leave of absence till Monday.]
                            On motion by Mr. DAVIS the futher consideration of the bill and
                                amendments was made the special order for to morrow, two
                                o'clock.
                            On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, Mr. Blythe was added to the 
                                    Select Committe on Colonization. 
                        
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION. 
                            The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz: the consideration of
                                the several bills to regulate the traffic in intoxicating liquors;
                                and the order was that the House be resolved into Committee
                                    of the Whole for this purpose.

                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. BAIRD (the order being suspended) introduced a bill (No. 134)
                                    to amend the first section of the act concerning real property
                                    and the alienation thereof, approved May 6, 1852:
                                Mr. EDWARDS introduced a bill (No. 135) dispensing with giving of
                                    bonds by any executor or executrix as a condition to granting
                                    letters testamentary in any case where the testator has declared
                                    the same may be done without the execution of bond:
                                Mr. BOYD introduced a bill (No. 136) for the protection of
                                    side-walks in towns ond villages, and for the preservation of
                                    shade-trees planting along the same:
                                Mr. COTTON introduced a bill (137) to amend the 24th section of
                                    the act concerning real property, and providing for the
                                    alienation thereof, and adding a section legalizing conveyance
                                    made by married women under twenty-one years:
                                Mr. BLYTHE (the House still under a suspession of the special
                                    order) introduced a bill (No. 138) declaratory of the meaning of
                                    the first section of the act describing who may make a will, the
                                    effect thereof; what may be devised, regulating their
                                    revocation; admission to probate and contest thereof, approved
                                    May 31, 1852, and to legalize all wills made by married women in
                                    pursuance of said act since the taking effect thereof:
                                Which bills were severally passed the first reading.
                                Mr. STILES and Mr. DAVIS desiring to introduce bills, the House
                                    refused further to suspend the special order. 
                            
                            
                                THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC.
                                Mr. MANSFIELD, from the Select Committee on
                                        Temperance, returned his bill (29) to license,
                                    regulate and restrain the sale of spiritous, vinous, malt and
                                    intoxicating liquors, to punish drunkenness, prohibit the
                                    adulteration of liquors, &c., with an amendment by way of
                                    substitute, which was read, the report concurred and the
                                    amendment adopted.
                                On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, the bill amended was referred to the
                                        Committee of the Whole ; and thereupon
                                    the House resolved into Committee of the
                                        Whole - Mr. Edwards in the Chair - and the
                                    Chairman announced the consideration of the various temperance
                                    bills which had been referred to this committee.
                                Mr. DAVIS moved to report Mr. Mansfield's bill as amended and
                                    recommended its passage.
                                The CHAIRMAN then directed the reading of Mr. Harney's resolution
                                    of last week, making the order for the present consideration of
                                    "all bills on the subject of temperance before the House."
                                Mr. HUNTER proposed to amend Mr. Mansfield's amended bill, by
                                    substituting his bill (H R. 81) to prevent the retailing of
                                    intoxicating or malt liquors, &c.
                                Mr. MANSFIELD. The object of the amendment seemed to be to avoid
                                    giving license. An injudicious law might extend the evils we
                                    wish to suppress. The habit of strong drink was commensurate
                                    with history. Legislation could not abate it any more than it
                                    could change the nature of man. He distinguished between the
                                    moral and civil law; and considered the reasons for a licence
                                    law - a law, which he favored. The principal thing was to guard
                                    the rising generation against tippling. The increase of
                                    intemperance was attributable to an increase of population.
                                    There were other sources of danger under this head - he referred
                                    to opium eating.
                                Mr. COLLIER. Would the gentleman license opium-eating?
                                Mr. MANSFIELD. Yes, if it could not be suppressed otherwise.
                                Mr. HUNTER could never consent to license an evil. He believed
                                    efficient checks could be thrown around the liquor traffic. He
                                    admitted, however, under the decisions of the Supreme Court, and
                                    the present Constitution, that this might be nearly impossible.
                                    He then described his bill - providing that the liquor shall not
                                    be drank on the premises. First, this made the evil to rest with
                                    the drinker and his family - and his wife would interpose a most
                                    wholesome restraint. It also makes the public appearance of an
                                    intoxicated man a misdemeanor. There was never a well behaved
                                    drunkard, nor a decent, well kept grocery. His bill proceeded on
                                    the admission that liquor was a benefit. The fourth section of
                                    the bill provides that where two or more persons shall file an
                                    affidavit that such a person is in the habit of drinking to
                                    excess and it jury, and serve notice thereof upon the trafficker
                                    - any trafficker selling to such person - the intoxicated person
                                    shall be a witness against his drencher, and the prosecuting
                                    attorney shall proceed against the liquor seller in such a case.
                                    These provisions, he considered, would effectually dry up the
                                    abuse of intoxicating liquors; and he showed that his bill was
                                    otherwise free from objection.
                                Mr. AUSTIN sustained the amendment of Mr. Hunter. It had been
                                    decided by the Supreme Court that this traffic is a legitimate
                                    business. But it was
                                    conceded that we had the right to restrain the unlawful use of
                                    intoxicating liquors to say it shall not be used to destroy the
                                    happiness of society, it had been abundantly demonstrated, that
                                    intemperance induced lunacy; and then we were called upon to
                                    expend the public money to erect and maintain asylums to treat
                                    the lunacy and wretchedness thus induced. This was certainly a
                                    very unwise line of policy for a State to pursue. This traffic
                                    had cursed the fairest prospects of his own early life, in its
                                    mournful effects on the character of his own father. This bill
                                    would close up all its dens of iniquity, and be asked for its
                                    passage as a protection for his , own children. The bill was not
                                    all he could desire, but perhaps the best he could get.
                                Mr. GIFFORD could say that he was as anxious for the remedy of
                                    this evil as the gentleman from Wayne. But what was the remedy?
                                    Even the Temperance men in State Convention here a few days ago,
                                    could not agree on the remedy. He lived "in a town where the
                                    restriction against the manufacture and sale of alcoholic
                                    liquors was a condition in every conveyance of a town lot, and
                                    even that was a failure. It as the intemperate use of
                                    intoxicating drinks that we should combat. But this (Hunter)
                                    bill proposed to go back and make it popular to take your gin
                                    home and drink with your friends - the very thing which had been
                                    years ago successfully combatted by the temperance movement. He
                                    was disposed to favor the committee's bill - prescribing notice
                                    of twenty days before application for license, so that objection
                                    may be made, and it will thus become the interest of all the
                                    neighborhood, in this way, to provide against disorderly houses.
                                    He gave examples of ineffectual attempts to avoid a license law,
                                    which had fallen under his immediate observation.
                                Mr. MURRAY considered the merits of these two bills. Coming here,
                                    he had made up his mind, that under the ruling of the Supreme
                                    Court, a license law was the best; but since that, he had come
                                    to the conclusion that a better system was practicable. He
                                    thought Hunter's bill the best of these two. He had investigated
                                    them both in committee. But still, a license law was better than
                                    no law at all. He should vote for the most stringent temperance
                                    law he could get. The principles of the prohibitory law of 1855
                                    were odious - in advance of the public sentiment. It destroyed
                                    what some regarded the rights of property." We were acting now
                                    with the advantage of experience. The committee's bill was the
                                    best license law he ever saw. But he would amend, fixing the
                                    lowest license at $40. Both bills aimed at the same thing - the
                                    suppression of the use of intoxicating drinks - the suppression
                                    of doggeries - objects which would be sustained by the people of
                                    the State of Indiana. The reason of his first determination was,
                                    that he understood the Supreme Court would not sustain any other
                                    than a license law. But he had been since informed that the
                                    Court would sustain the Hunter bill to break down the doggeries.
                                    That bill left the traffic open. But the liquor shall not be
                                    drank on the premises where sold, because that makes the
                                    business a nuisance. That bill also punishes the drunkard, which
                                    accorded with his temperance principles. It also enabled wives
                                    or next friends to serve process, and prohibit sales to their
                                    drinking husbands; and many of these provisions he was glad to
                                    find, were in the bill of the Temperance
                                        Committee - the select committee of nine on this
                                    subject. The only difference between them was, that Hunter's
                                    avoids the principle of license makes the traffic a nuisance. It
                                    was the moral aspect of the license question that was to be
                                    dreaded, &c.
                                Mr. THOMPSON, of Madison, made an ineffectual motion that the
                                    committee rise, and have leave to set again next Tuesday
                                    week.
                                Mr. MURRAY made an ineffectual motion to recommend the Hunter
                                    bill.
                                On motion by Mr. Speaker GORDON, the bill was considered by
                                    sections.
                                Mr. GRIFFIN proposed to amend the first section by striking out
                                    "one gallon," and inserting "one barrel," which was
                                    rejected.
                                Mr. USREY proposed to strike out "one gallon" and insert "one
                                    quart," which was also rejected.
                                Mr. AUSTIN proposed ineffectually to strike out the word "white"
                                    from the second section.
                                Mr. RITTER proposed ineffectually to strike out the words "of
                                    good character" from the third section.
                                Mr. MURRAY proposed ineffectually to add to section 3, these
                                    words: "and the bond shall be a lein on the real and personal
                                    property of every signer of the same, from the moment the same
                                    is filed with the auditor of the county, and the obligors shall
                                    prove by affidavit that they are possessed of sufficient
                                    property to secure the payment of said bond.
                                Mr. TURPIE proposed to strikeout the words "this privilege," and
                                    insert in lieu thereof the words, "said license," which was
                                    agreed to.
                                Mr. SCOTT proposed ineffectually to make the range from $1,000 to
                                    $5,000.
                                So the third section was agreed to.
                                Mr. POWER proposed to amend the 4th sec. so that the minimum of
                                    license shall be $50 instead of $20.
                                Mr. MURRAY proposed to make it $100.
                                Mr. THOMPSON, of Elkhart. Why now should license shirk this
                                    responsibility ? Look at the profits made in this traffic. He
                                    would like to see an adequate license. One hundred dollars was
                                    not too much. He would rather say $500. The profits on a single
                                    barrel of whisky would pay a license of $20. Why then throw this
                                    responsibility upon the County Commissioners?
                                Mr. POWER agreed with the gentleman from Elkhart, and spoke at
                                    length against the moral incongruity of a license law. He was at
                                    a loss which bill to vote for. He could not go with Mr. Murray
                                    for punishing the unfortunate inebriate.
                                Mr. HALL, of Rush, deprecated haste, and moved ineffectually that
                                    the committee rise.
                                Mr. HAMILTON,of Boone, submitted a statement of figures to show
                                    the profits on a barrel of whisky at retail, by way of argument,
                                    for the highest minimum rate of license.
                                Mr. AUSTIN. Would not the ruling of the Supreme Court allow the
                                    trafficker to fall back upon his right to sell, notwithstanding
                                    this proposed restraint? 
                                
                                Mr. Speaker GORDON (in his seat.) Certainly not.
                                Mr. Murray's amendment was rejected, and Mr. Powers' was
                                    adopted.
                                Mr. MELLETT proposed to extend the maximum rate of license in the
                                    4th section, from "$500" to "$1,000." He offered this as a
                                    compromise, and it gave to the County Commissioners a discretion
                                    not likely to be abused.
                                Mr. DAVIS doubted the propriety of the amendment already adopted
                                    to this resolution. There should be a latitude given - to
                                    accommo date the views and interests of large towns and the
                                    townships. But then you can not execute the law unless you bring
                                    the dealer under its operation. He had no fear about fixing the
                                    amount, but it was impracticable. The high figure of the
                                    gentleman from Henry, would render the law inoperative wherever
                                    it was attempted to be enforced.
                                Mr. Speaker GORDON. The Commissioners of the County would not fix
                                    the license at the maximum without good reason. He was in favor
                                    of allowing the people everywhere to fix their own institution
                                    in their own way. The argument of the gentleman was certainly as
                                    strong against him as for him.
                                Mr. DAVIS. Would the gentleman from Henry support the bill with
                                    his amendment.
                                Mr. MELLETT answered affirmatively. Then in his county they would
                                    be able to prohibit the traffic, and it would be as good a law
                                    as that of 1855.
                                The amendment was agreed to, and the Committee so recommended the
                                    adoption of section four.
                                Mr. Speaker GORDON proposed to amend section 7, by adding to the
                                    Sunday prohibition, clause, these words: "Nor upon the day of
                                    any State, county, township or municipal election in the town or
                                    city where the same shall be held," which was adopted.
                                Mr, LAWHEAD proposed to add to the 8th section, these words:
                                    "Every person who shall, by himself or agent, directly or
                                    indirectly, knowingly sell, barter or give away any intoxicating
                                    liquor to any person in the habit of being intoxicated, shall
                                    forfeit and pay a fine of not less than $5, nor more than
                                    $50."
                                Mr. MANSFIELD had considered that amendment and found it
                                    impracticable. How could the dealer know whether a man was in
                                    the habit of intoxication?
                                Mr. LAWHEAD. The liquor dealer knows frequenters of his house
                                    well enough to decide whether he is in the habit of being
                                    intoxicated or not.
                                The amendment was adopted.
                                Mr. GREGORY proposed to amend the 9th section by adding to the
                                    prohibition against sell ing less than a gallon, these words:
                                    "Shall be fined in any sum not less than $25, nor more than
                                    $100," which was adopted.
                                Under Mr. MURRAY'S motion to reconsider this vote - 
                                Mr. STANFIELD regarded it as unjust and oppressive to exact so
                                    high a penalty for so small an offense.
                                Mr. Harney, Mr. Mellett and Mr. Stiles con curred with Mr.
                                    Stanfield. Five dollars was enough for selling a glass of liquor
                                    without license. It were better the execution of the law should
                                    be certain, than too severe.
                                The vote was reconsidered, and then the amendment was
                                    rejected.
                                Mr. GREGORY proposed to amend the provision against selling to
                                    minors, by fixing the penalty between $50 and $300, which was
                                    rejected.
                                 Mr. Speaker GORDON made an ineffectual motion to strikeout that
                                    part of the 13th section, which gives the Circuit Court
                                    jurisdiction of these misdemeanors.
                                Mr. DOUGHERTY proposed to add to the 14th section these words:
                                    "Nothing contained in this act shall be so construed as to
                                    prohibit the sale, in any quantity, by the manufacturer of wines
                                    and cider, manufactured from fruits grown by the manufacturer in
                                    this State," which was adopted; and so the 14th section was
                                    recommended to the House.
                                Mr. SCOTT proposed an additional section to the following effect,
                                    which was agreed to:
                                Sec. 16. It shall be the duty of the District Attorney, being
                                    informed of the violation of any of the provisions of this act,
                                    immediately to prosecute the person against whom complaint is
                                    made and upon his failure to do so, any other attorney at law,
                                    or citizen, may prosecute the same to a final decision.
                                Mr. MELLETT proposed an additional section declaring that an
                                    emergency exists, and that this act shall take effect and be in
                                    force from and after its publication, which was also
                                    adopted.
                                On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the committee now arose, and the
                                    Chairman reported the bill as amended, recommending the adoption
                                    of the amendments, the passage of the bill, and that the
                                    committee be discharged from i s further consideration.
                                The report was concurred in, and the bill was ordered to be
                                    engrossed.
                                The House then, at 5:45 o'clock, adjourned. 
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE

                        
                            FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 1859. 
                        
                        The Lieutenant Governor being kept from his place in the Senate by severe
                            sickness, the Senator from Jefferson (Mr. Cravens) took the Presidents'
                            chair, and called the Senate to order. The journal of yesterday was then
                            read.
                        
                            ELECTION OF PRESIDENT PRO TEM.
                            Mr. WAGNER called up the question whether the President pro tem, elected at the commencement of the regular
                                session, was authorized take the chair on every occasion during the
                                session when the Lieutenant Governor would be absent. His opinion
                                was that such is the case.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON coincided with the opinion expressed by the Senator.
                            Mr. HEFFREN, Mr. SLACK, and Mr. CRAVENS (in the Chair) thought
                                differently.
                            Mr. HEFFREN offered the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That, at 11 o'clock this
                                            forenoon, the Senate will elect a President pro tempore, to act as such whenever the
                                            Lieutenant Governor may be absent. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. GOODING was of opinion that there was no necessity for the
                                resolution. He understood that the President pro
                                    tem. elected at the beginning of the session should act as such
                                whenever the President of the Senate is absent.
                            Mr. WALLACE thought there must necessarily be an election every time
                                the Lieutenant Governor is absent.
                            Mr. STEELE stated, that in the session of 1842-43 the Lieutenant
                                Governor was here only a part of the session, and a President pro tempore served during the whole time of the
                                absence of the President proper.
                            Mr JONES, in order to settle this question, moved to strike out the
                                words "11 o'clock," and insert the word "forthwith."
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to further amend, by striking out all that part of
                                the resolution which relates to the pro tempore
                                officer presiding from time to time.
                            Mr. HEFFREN accepted the amendment.
                            The resolution, as amended, was then adopted.
                            Mr. WEIR nominated Hon. John R. Cravens, the Senator from
                                Jefferson.
                            Mr. GOODING nominated the Hon. Lewis Wallace, the Senator from
                                Montgomery.
                            Mr. HEFFREN nominated the Hon. Win. C. Tarkington, the Senator from
                                Brown.
                            The names of Senators were called for their viva
                                    voce votes with the following result: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        For Mr. Cravens - Messrs. Anthony,
                                            Beeson, Bennett, Blair, Bobbs, Brown, Conner, Cooper,
                                            Craven, Green, Hamilton, Hendry, Hill, Johnston, Jones,
                                            Kinley, March, Murray, Rice, Steele, Stevens. Thompson,
                                            Turner, Wagner, and Weir - 25. 
                                        For Mr. Wallace - Messrs. Cobb, Conley,
                                            Gooding, Line,Odell, Robinson, and Wilson - 7. 
                                        For Mr. Tarkington - Messrs. Carnahan,
                                            Hargrove, Heffren, Jennings, Lomax, McClure, O'Brien,
                                            Slack, and Williams - 9. 
                                        For Mr. Hamilton - Messrs. McLean and
                                            Tarkington - 2
                                        For Mr. SlackMr. Studabaker - 1. 
                                        For Mr. Gooding - Mr. Wallace - 1.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. Cravens having received a majority of all votes cast, was
                                declared duly elected to serve during the temporary absence of the
                                Lieutenant Governor.
                            [A message from the House announced the passage by that body of an
                                act supplemental to an act entitled an act prescribing who may make
                                a will, what shall be devised, and regulating contests thereof,
                                approved May 21, 1852.] 

                        
                        
                            SHINPLASTERS.
                            Mr. WALLACE, out of courtesy, and for the accomodation of the Senator
                                from Laporte, [Mr. Weir] who was absent on yesterday at the time of
                                the passage of the bill (H. R. 12) to present the issue of
                                unauthorized paper currency, made a motion to reconsider the vote by
                                which the said bill was passed.
                            Mr. HEFFREN made an ineffectual motion lay the motion to reconsider
                                on the table yeas-21, nays 25.
                            The motion to reconsider was then agreed to bv yeas 25, nays 22.
                            The question being shall the bill pass? - 
                            Mr. WEIR moved to recommit the bill to the Committee on Banks, with
                                instructions to amend the bill so as to prevent the issuing
                                hereafter by others of any such currency, under severe penalties,
                                and provide by further amendments for the gradual and ultimate
                                redemption of what is now in circulation. Also add a section to
                                compel the redemption of what has been issued heretofore, under the
                                same penalties as for that which is hereafter issued.
                            Mr. HENDRY regarded the passage of this law as a disgrace to the laws
                                of the State of Indiana.
                            On motion by Mr. KINLEY, the motion to recommit with instructions was
                                laid on the table.
                            Mr. HENDRY moved to recommit to the Judiciary Committee, with
                                instructions to strikeout all that part of the bill in regard to the
                                drawee, and all that which makes the circulation of notes prima
                                facie evidence of guilt; also to inquire whether the Legislature has
                                power to make the issuing of unauthorized paper currency a crime
                                now, when it was not a crime at the time of issuing the same.
                            On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, this motion to recommit was laid on the
                                table - yeas 30, nays 17.
                            Mr. LINE demanded the previous question, and there being a second,
                                the main question was ordered, and under its operation the bill was
                                finally passed the Senate by yeas 41, nays 4, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Bobbs. Brown, Carnahan. Cobb, Conley,
                                            Conner, Cooper, Cravens, Hamilton, Hargrove, Heffren,
                                            Hendry, Hill, Jennings, Johnston, Jones, Kinley, Line,
                                            Lomax, McClure, McLain, March, Murray, O'Brien, Odell,
                                            Rice, Robinson, Shoemaker, Slack, Steele, Stevens,
                                            Tarkington, Turner, Wagner, Wallace, Williams and Wilson
                                            - 41.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Craven, Green, Thompson
                                            and Weir - 4. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. Studabaker refused to vote.
                            Mr. ANTHONY, when his name was called, said: I must be permitted to
                                say there are some things in this bill to which I seriously object;
                                but as there seems to be a determination of the majority to take
                                this bill in this way, I shall vote for it.
                            Mr. HENDRY, when his name was called, said: Mr. President: I shall
                                vote "aye," under protest.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER, when his name was called said: While I am in favor of
                                the object of the bill, I am opposed to some details of it - one in
                                particular I deem unconstitutional. I should like to vote for the
                                bill, yet I can not feel willing to do so on the ground of the
                                objections that occur to me to be in the bill. For that reason I
                                shall refuse to vote on the question.
                            Mr. WALLACE, when his name was called, said: I vote "aye," with
                                infinite and inexpressible disgust.
                            Mr. WEIR, when his name was called, said: I approve of the general
                                features of the bill, and believe that the people should be
                                protected against such issues in future, but I am opposed to the
                                detail of the bill, believing that it will result in large losses to
                                the people, by what is now in circulation, there being no mode
                                provided by which the circulation now out will be redeemed, I
                                therefore, vote "no."
                            The title of the bill was then read and adopted. 
                        
                        
                            CANAL AROUND THE FALLS OF THE OHIO.
                            On motion by Mr. McCLURE, the special order, being Mr. Bobbs' bill
                                (S. 25) for the redemption of bonds, stocks, &c., was informally
                                passed over, and the joint resolution (H. R. 13) with relation to
                                constructing a canal around the falls of the Ohio, was read and passed the
                                Senate by yeas 45, nays 0 
                        
                        
                            BANK OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
                            Mr. CONLEY, by leave, returned from a select committee his bill (S.
                                42) to repeal an act establishing a bank and branches, passed March
                                3, 1855, the Governor's objection to the contrary notwithstanding,
                                and setting forth that the act was procured by fraud; recommending
                                passage with an amendment in the shape of a preamble, as
                                follows:
                            WHEREAS, It clearly appears from the evidence
                                taken before the investigating committee appointed by the Senate, at
                                the session of the General Assembly in 1857, and reported at the
                                late extra session, that the passage of the above entitled act, and
                                the original subscriptions of stock in the pretended organization
                                under said act. were procured by the fraud of the subscribers and
                                their confederates;
                            AND WHEREAS, It clearly appears that the precedent
                                conditions by said act required to be performed in the organization
                                of a bank with branches, have never been complied with; and,
                                WHEREAS, The persons now claiming the franchises of said act were
                                either parties or privies to all the fraud therein alleged, or had
                                actual or presumptive notice thereof, and after non-performance of
                                said precedent conditions, at the time they severally acquired the
                                pretended rights; and, WHEREAS, Said franchises
                                have never rested in any person or persons, whatsoever, and the
                                existing organization called the Bank of the State of Indiana, is a
                                usurpation acting without authority-of laws:
                            The other amendments proposed by the committtee constitute the
                                present Directors, Receivers and Trustees a Board for winding up
                                within three years, the business of the Bank, giving the Circuit
                                Court power to enforce the trust, and to appoint other trustees on
                                the failure of the directors to act as such.
                            Mr. WAGNER submitted a minority report, which recommended the
                                indefinite postponement of the bill.
                            Senators Conley, Heffren and March desired that this subject should
                                be made the special order for some day certain.
                            Mr. McLEAN apprehended that every speech to be made on this subject
                                would be for effect outside of the Senate Chamber; and as he thought
                                they would not change the views and sentiments of a single Senator
                                upon this floor, he was willing that gentlemen should hand to the
                                Reporter the speeches which they desire to deliver, let them be
                                reported as delivered and thus save the Senate from a vast amount of
                                infliction.
                            Senators Tarkington, Gooding and Bennett expressed themselves as in
                                favor of making the subject the special order for some day next
                                week.
                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER it was made the special order for Thursday
                                next at 10 o'clock.
                            Mr. SLACK, by leave, returned from a select committee his bill (S.
                                84) fixing the times of holding Courts of Common Pleas in the
                                counties of Huntington and Wells, with an entire substitute
                                therefor, recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            On Mr. SLACK'S motion the bill was considered as engrossed, read the
                                third time and finally passed the Senateyeas 42, nays 0.
                             The PRESIDENT pro tem, laid before the Senate, the
                                15thAnnual Report of the Trustees and Superintendent of the Indiana
                                Institute for Educating the Deaf and Dumb, which laid on the
                                table.
                            The PRESIDENT pro tem, also laid the Senate a
                                report from the Secretary of the Senate, setting forth how many
                                steel pens, lead pencils, inkstands, sheets of paper and quills each
                                Senator procured from the stationary room during the extra session
                                of last November and December: which the Secretary proceeded to read
                                in detail.
                            Mr. WAGNER [interupting the reading of the report] said he took this
                                matter to be childish, a contemptible piece of business, and a
                                perfect outrage. [Cries of "read on," "read on."] If gentlemen
                                insisted on the reading of the report he would not sit by and hear
                                it. He moved that the further reading of the report be dispensed
                                with.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON was in favor of the motion. He thought the report
                                should not be permitted to appear upon the journal of the
                                Senate.
                            The motion was rejected.
                            Mr. HAMILTON offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That there be no more
                                            stationery furnished Senators, but that each member pay
                                            for his own stationery.
                                    
                                
                            
                            A SENATOR suggested the propriety of post-poning
                                the resolution for a day or two, until Senators could supply
                                themselves from the stationery room. [Laughter.]
                            Objection being made the resolution was ruled out of order.
                            And then the Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            On motion by Mr. WEIR, the pen, pencil and paper report, pending at
                                the time of taking the recess, was referred to the Finance
                                    Committee. 

                            
                                REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                    returned Mr. Hargrove's bill (S. 50) to amend section 16 of an
                                    act concerning the partition of lands, approved May 20, 1852,
                                    recommending its passage.
                                 The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be
                                    engrossed.
                                Mr. McLEAN, from the same committee, returned his bill (S. 68) to
                                    amend section 9 of an act to provide for the election ot Clerks
                                    of the Circuit Courts, approved June 7, 1852, recommending its
                                    passage.
                                The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                    engrossed.
                                Mr. GOODING, from the same committee, returned Mr. Jones' bill
                                    (S. 64) to render public officers competent to testify as
                                    witnesses incases brought on their relation to the State,
                                    recommending its passage.
                                The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                    engrossed.
                                Mr. MURRAY, from the same committee, returned Mr. Wagner's bill
                                    (S. 105) prescribing the forms to be used in criminal cases,
                                    reeommending indefinite postponement.
                                The report was concurred in.
                                Mr. CONNER., from the same committee, returned his bill (S. 55)
                                    to amend section 315 of  the
                                    law reform act, (making the publication 30 instead of 60 days)
                                    approved June 18, 1852, recommending its passage.
                                The report was concurred in and the bill orded to be
                                    engrossed.
                                Mr. HENDRY, from the same committee, returned Mr. McClure's bill
                                    (S. 77) to amend sec. 18 of an act concerning real property and
                                    the alienation thereof, recommending its passage.
                                The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be
                                    engrossed.
                                Mr. HEFFREN, from the same committee returned his bill (S. 131)
                                    to amend sections 207 and 208 of the law reform act, approved
                                    June 18, 1852, so as to authorize the change of venue in certain
                                    cases, recommending its passage.
                                The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be
                                    engrossed.
                                On Mr. HEFFREN'S motion the bill was considered as engrossed,
                                    read the third time, and finally passed the Senate by yeas 43,
                                    nays 0. 
                            
                            
                                DISPOSITION OF THE SINKING FUND.
                                On motion of Mr. BOBBS, the order of business was passed over,
                                    and his bill (S. 25) to provide for the redemption or purchase
                                    of the bank bonds and Indiana and other State Stock, and United
                                    States Stocks (by the money in the Sinking Fund vault) providing
                                    for the manner of doing the same, and defining the duty of
                                    certain officers in connection therewith, was taken up for
                                    consideration.
                                The question being on concurring in the report of the Committee -
                                    being a recommendation for the passage of the bill- 
                                Mr. WAGNER moved that the report be concurred in.
                                The motion was agreed to.
                                Mr. HEFFREN moved to amend, by adding the following:
                                Sec. , That in cases where bonds or stocks are
                                    purchased in accordance with the provisions of this act, the
                                    State only shall allow such price as is paid for them in the
                                    market where purchased, by the duly authorized agent or agents
                                    of the State of Indiana.
                                Mr. WAGNER was in favor of the amendment.
                                Mr. TARKINGTON moved to further amend by adding "and that the
                                    proper officers shall report to each session of the Legislature
                                    what State bonds are purchased, and the price paid
                                    therefor."
                                Mr. HEFFREN accepted of the amendment.
                                Mr. STEELE had no particular objections to the amendments.
                                Mr. BOBBS proposed in his bill that there be no purchase at all
                                    of the bonds or stocks without public advertisement having been
                                    first made of the intention so to do.
                                Mr. WEIR moved to lay the bill, with the pending amendment, on
                                    the table.
                                Mr. BOBBS demanded a division of the question.
                                The,question being on laying the bill on the table, the motion
                                    was lost.
                                The question recurring on laying the amendment on the table, that
                                    motion was lost.
                                The amendment was then adopted.
                                Mr. STUDABAKER moved to strike out from the enacting clause and
                                    insert an entire substitute providing for distributing the
                                    Sinking Fund among the various counties.
                                Mr. WALLACE moved to amend the amendment by requiring the Sinking
                                    Fund Commissioners to give notice that it is the pleasure of the
                                    State of Indiana that her outstanding bank bonds shall be
                                    presented on or before a day to be specified for their
                                    redemption, and the interest shall be stopped on such bonds as
                                    are not by that time presented.
                                The amendment was declared out of order, and withdrawn.
                                Mr. JOHNSTON expressed himself in opposition to the original
                                    bill, but disposed to f vor the substitute proposed by the
                                    Senator from Adams, [Mr. Studabaker ]
                                Mr. LINE was also in favor of the substitute.
                                Mr. BOBBS spoke in favor of his bill, submitting facts and
                                    figures in argument, and claiming that it would be better for
                                    the fund itself to invest it in the manner proposed by his bill,
                                    than to distribute it in the manner proposed by the
                                    substitute.
                                Mr. STUDABAKER replied, sustaining the provisions of the
                                    substitute, and insisting upon its advantages over that of the
                                    original bill.
                                Mr. WALLACE, by leave, from a select committee, returned Mr.
                                    Wilson's bill (S. 102) to amend the third section of an act to
                                    establish Courts of Common Pleas ; recommending that it be
                                    indefinitely postponed, and substituting an entire new plan for
                                    a bill.
                                Mr. TARKINGTON made an ineffectual motion to lay the report on
                                    the table.
                                Mr. CONNER moved to make it the special order for Tuesday morning
                                    next at 10 o'clock.
                                The motion was agreed to.
                                Mr. TARKINGTON obtained the floorAnd then the Senate adjourned.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

                        
                            FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 1859. 
                        
                        Mr. MURRAY presented the petition of Joel Ellis, for relief, which was
                            referred without reading to the Committee on
                            Claims.
                        The SPEAKER laid before the House the petition of Andrew P. Jones, of
                            Indianapolis, for damages on account of the construction of the canal,
                            which was referred to the Committee on Claims.
                        The SPEAKER laid before the House a statement from the Auditor of State,
                            responding to a resolution of the House, adopted on the 26th day of
                            November, 1858, embracing an account of moneys audited to certain Clerks
                            of the Supreme Court; also, a statement by the same officer, responding
                            to a resolution of the House, of the same day, embracing an account of
                            moneys audited to ex-Governor Wright and Governor Willard, which were
                            read and referred to the Committee on Ways and
                            Means.
                        Messrs. Stinson, Keefer, Hartley, Shields and Lawhead had leave of
                            absence till Monday. 
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            On motion by Mr. DAVIS, the previous order of business was suspended
                                for the purpose of the introduction of bills, which were passed the
                                first reading, as follows:
                            By Mr. DAVIS: (139) to amend the 9th sec tion of the 5th article of chapter
                                first, part third of the Revised Statutes of 1852(with reference to
                                bailable offenses.)
                            By Mr. PARKS: (140) to amend part of section 2, and to amend section
                                4 of an act to repeal all laws in force for the incorporation of
                                cities, and to provide for the incorporation of cities, prescribing
                                their powers, and the manner in which they shall exercise the same,
                                approved March 9, 1852, and repeal conflicting laws(require 500
                                inhabitants for an incorporated city.)
                            By Mr. EDWARDS: (141) to authorize the formation of limited
                                partnersnip?, fixing the liabilities of the several partners,
                                &c.
                            By Mr. DAVIS: (142) to authorize the Boards of Commissioners of the
                                several counties to make such allowance out of the county treasuries
                                of their respective counties, as will indemnify the owners of
                                property for losses sustained by the taking, conveying or the
                                destruction of such property by any officer, by virtue of the
                                provisions of the act entitled an act to prohibit the manufacture
                                and sale of intoxicating liquors,and to repeal former laws on this
                                subject, approved February 18, 1855, and in cases where such
                                property may have been used or carried away by such officers.
                            By Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone: (143) to legalize the appraisement and
                                assessment of property for taxation in the cities of this State,
                                incorporated under the act of March 9, 1857, and an act providing
                                for the incorporation of cities, prescribing their duties, rights,
                                &c.(shall be as valid as if made out before the first Mondays in
                                May and August.)
                            By Mr. SNYDER: (144) to authorize railroad companies to use bonds, to
                                fix the rate of interest thereon, and to authorize sale and
                                conveyance of railroads and their franchises; and to vest the title
                                thereto in the purchaser or purchasers; to provide for a new Board
                                of Directors; to authorize railroad companies to consolidate their
                                stock, to assume a new name, &c.
                            By Mr. SMITH, of Perry: (145) to provide additional security to the
                                bondholders, and to the people of the State, in issuing certificates
                                of stock for the original Bank of the State.
                            By Mr. BLYTHE: (146) to amend 22d section of the act for the
                                incorporation of Insurance Companies defining their powers and
                                prescribing their duties, approved June 17, 1852
                            By Mr. MANSFIELD: (147) to authorize the Board of Directors or any
                                incorporated company to reduce the amount of their capital stock to
                                the nominal value ,of shares thereof, and to issue certificates of
                                stock therefor.
                            By Mr. BLACK: (148) to amend sections 18 and 19 of the act
                                prescribing the powers and duties of Justices of the Peace, approved
                                May 29, 1852.
                            By Mr. BLACK: (149) to amend the act concerning the partition of
                                land, approved May 20, 1852the 11th and 18th sections thereof.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD: (150) to amend the practice act of June 18, 1852 -
                                requiring answers to be drawn before a judgment or default against a
                                non resident shall he set aside; authorizing property taken on
                                execution to be held in certain cases; judges in vacation to appoint
                                receivers; providing for the faithful discharge of their duties; to
                                modify or reinstate orders of injunction granted in vacation;
                                provisions in relation to the continuance of causes, and the sale of
                                property on the foreclosure of mortgage.
                            [The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the
                                Superintendent of the Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb, transmitting the
                                annual report of the Trustees of said Institution, for the year
                                1858.
                            On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, it was ordered that the House of
                                Representatives and the said Institution be furnished with the
                                number of copies authorized by law.]
                            By Mr. WHITEMAN: (151) to repeal the 75th section of the act
                                concerning promissory notes and bills of exchange.
                            By Mr. DAVIS: (152) to provide for the making and authentication of
                                transcripts from the records of the Recorder's offices in certain
                                cases, and for the admissibility of he same, or copies thereof.
                            By Mr. HANCOCK: (153) to amend the 34th section, chapter 48, volume 1
                                of the Revised Statutes, providing for the vacation and change of
                                public highways, approved June 17, 1852, and establishing the width
                                of highways - (16 feet.)
                            By Mr. EASTHAM: (154) fixing the time of holding the Circuit Courts
                                in the third Judicial Circuit.
                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: (155) providing for the taxing of docket fees in all
                                civil actions in the Circuit Courts and Courts of Common Pleas.
                            By Mr. HARRISON: (156) to authorize appeals from the Circuit to the
                                Supreme Court in contested election cases.
                            By Mr. BOYD: (157) securing to married women such personal property
                                as may be exempt from execution; also enabling them to control their
                                own earnings and the earnings of their minor children in certain
                                cases.
                            By Mr. BAIRD: (158) to provide for the management and disposition of
                                estates of persons who have mysteriously disappeared and deserted
                                their families, without having made provision for the care of their
                                estates or the support of their families.
                            By Mr. STILES: (159) to regulate the descent of the wife's property
                                on her death.
                            By Mr. DAVIS: (160) to amend the first section of the act providing
                                for extending the term of the Circuit Courts by adjournment when the
                                pending business shall be unfinished, approved February 12, 1855,
                                and to authorize the judge to hold special terms. 
                            By Mr. PARKS: (161) to repeal the act providing for the colonization
                                of negroes, mulattoes and their descendents, and appropriating $5000
                                therefor, constituting a State Board of Colonization, declaring the
                                duty of the State Board, the State Treasurer and County Treasurers
                                in relation thereto, approved February 28, 1852.
                            By Mr. HARNEY: (162) to amend section 4 of the act to provide for the
                                election and certain duties of Prosecuting and District Attorneys,
                                approved June 11, 1852, and to provide for the payment in certain
                                cases of the fees of District Attorneys.
                            By Mr. MELLETT: (163) to regulate the collection of judgments and the
                                sale of property.
                        
                        
                    
                    
                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 2, 1859.
                        No. 7.
                    
                    
                        
                            on execution, against any person, officer or corporation, or their
                                agent, receiving and holding money in a fiduciary capacity, or the
                                sureties of either of them.
                            By Mr. PARKS: (164) to amend the 364th section of the practice act of
                                June 18, 1852, and to repeal all laws coming in conflict with this
                                act(dismissal of actions in vacation.)
                            [A message from the Senate, by Mr. Senator Heffren, now announced the
                                passage in that body of Mr. Martin's bill (H. R. 12) to prevent the
                                issuing of unauthorized bank paper, &c., with amendments, asking
                                the concurrence of the House ]
                            By Mr. SNYDER: (165) to amend section 18 of the misdemeanor act of
                                June 14,1852 (repeals disfranchisement for fraudulent
                                indictment)
                        
                        
                            COUNTY ASSESSORS.
                            Mr. PROSSER, by consent, returned ML Waterman's bill (52) providing
                                for the electio and qualification of county assessors, with
                                amendments, to this effect:
                            SECTION. - Said assessor shall have power to
                                appoint deputies, and the deputy shall give the bond and take the
                                oath required, of his principal. 
                            Amend section 2 by inserting appropriately:
                            
                                "Said election shall be conducted in all
                                    respects as other general elections - the board of convassers to
                                    certify to the auditor, and the auditor to give the person
                                    elected a certificate of his election."
                            
                            The amendments were concurred in, and the bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            On motion by Mr. BAIRD, the bill (134) to amend the act concerning
                                real property, of May 6, 1852, was considered on the second reading,
                                and referred to the Committee on the
                                Judiciary.
                            Mr. RITTER (by consent) laid before the House a letter from J. W.
                                Denver, head of the Indian Bureau of the Department of the Interior
                                of the United States, in relation to the Indiana Indian claims,
                                which was read, and referred to the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means.
                            Mr. GIFFORD proposed the following instructions along with the
                                reference, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Ways and Means be instructed to take
                                            into consideration the condition of the stock held for
                                            the Indian account, against this State, for the use and
                                            benefit of the Chippewas, Ottowas, Pottowattamies and
                                            Chickasaws, and to report to this House at an early day,
                                            whether any legislation is necessary to secure the
                                            prompt payment of the interest on said stock. 
                                    
                                
                            


                            The bill (S. 30) to provide for the transfer of certificates of stock
                                of the State of Indiana, to prevent fraudulent issues thereof,
                                &c.
                            The bill (S. 116) with reference to the time of holding courts in 21
                                Judicial Circuit.
                            The bill (S. 8) to amend the act concerning real property, of May 6,
                                1852.The bill (S. 1) to amend sections 6, 7, 12 and 20 of the
                                Divorce Act of May 13,1852.
                            The bill (S 107) to authorize assessors and deputies to administer
                                oaths - 
                            Were severally considered and passed the second reading.
                            Mr. DOBBINS, by consent, from the Committee on the
                                    Organization of Courts, returned the bill (30) to
                                repeal the act establishing courts of conciliation, approved June
                                11, 1852, recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            The Senate amendments to Mr. Martin's bill (12) to prevent the
                                issuing and circulation of unauthorized bank paper, were severally
                                read and considered, and on motion by
                            Mr. STANFELD, the subject was referred to a select committee; which
                                the SPEAKER makes to consist of Messrs. Stanfield, Martin and
                                Blythe.
                            On motion by Mr. MANSFIELD it was ordered that the Door-keeper be
                                requested to enquire why the resolution ot the House requiring the
                                printing of the State Teachers' Committee report has not been
                                complied with.
                            On motion by Mr. SHERMAN, by consent, his bill (118) to provide
                                penalty for banks failing to pay deposits or reedeem their bills on
                                presentation, was considered on the second reading and referred to a
                                select committee of five, which the Speaker makes to consist of
                                Messrs. Sherman, Davis, Mellett, Harney and Branham.
                            Mr. MURRAY, by consent, submitted a joint resolution, on the subject
                                of the Wabash and Erie Canal.
                            Mr. BLYTHE. This was a very important subject. He apprehended that
                                some of us at least, are not prepared to take definite action in
                                regard to it at this time. He was informed by the papers and
                                othewise, that there are now being held along the line of that
                                canal, sundry public meetings upon the subject, and he preferred to
                                await the expression of public sentiment. He was unwilling now to do
                                anything which might be construed as estopping the General Assembly
                                from future action in this matter. He desired to move to lay the
                                resolution upon the table, because he regarded it as premature.
                            Mr. MURRAY. The resolution, he believed, embodied the opinion of
                                nine-tenths of the people of the State. It was adopted by a meeting
                                of citizens residing on the line of the Canal. That opinion had been
                                heretofore expressed by  both
                                political parties in terms that could not be misunderstood; and he
                                desired now, in obedience to the wish of his people, to give that
                                expression herethat we are opposed to taking back the Canal and
                                standing responsible again for that Canal debt.
                            Mr. BLYTHE was just as determinedly hostile to taking back the Canal
                                and reassuming those bonds as the gentleman. He was in no wise
                                favorable to that course. But should we say now, we will not! The
                                act of taking back was not all. He had heard of an accommodation - a
                                mode of adjustment of the difficulty. If there was a necessity for
                                it, he might be willing to vote for the resolution at the proper
                                time; but not under a threat of the trustees, &c. It was
                                manifestly the part of prudence to delay this action to wait for
                                expressions of the views and opinions of the people at other points
                                along that Canal Lafayette, Terre Haute, Evansville - the latter
                                point being most interested, and having done most for that work.
                                There had been a public meeting on this matter in Evansville, and a
                                committee of consider ite men had been appointed to report upon it
                                at another meeting, to be held next Tuesday.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, concurred with Mr. Blythe. Masterly
                                inactivity was our policy now in this matter.
                            Mr. EDWARDS also coincided with Mr. Blythe. He had heretofore
                                introduced a resolution against the State taking back this Canal,
                                and he should not change this declaration. But there were questions
                                in connection with this interest which demanded deliberation, and he
                                should vote to lay the resolution on the table.
                            Mr. DAVIS. Though these bond-holders have no claims on the State, yet
                                he thought it best to delay, but would rather not vote to lay on the
                                table. He would prefer a reference to a select committee.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. To lay on the table might place members in an
                                equivocal position. He moved to postpone till the second Friday in
                                February.
                            Mr. DAVIS would prefer to have the resolution in a little different
                                language. He was willing to require the select committee to report
                                it back on a certain day. He wanted to get rid of the preamble.
                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. His county was deeply interested in this matter. It was
                                the desire of his people that we should not take hasty action. He
                                moved to refer to a select committee of five.
                            Mr, MURRAY seconded this motion. He was willing - but there were
                                interests in the State outside of this Canal.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY'S motion was agreed to, and the resolution was
                                postponed.
                            Mr. TURPIE submited a resolution, which was adopted, to the effect,
                                that the Committee on Education inquire into the
                                expediency of providing by law, that the voters of each school
                                district shall have the employment of their teachers, and the
                                management of their school houses, instead of leaving these to be
                                controlled by the township trustees. 
                        

                        
                            TRUST FUND BORROWERS
                            Mr. JEFFRIES, by consent from the Committee on the Sinking
                                    Fund, returned Mr. Harrison's bill (59) to extend time
                                to the borrowers from the trust funds, recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed,
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, from the Committee on Swamp
                                    Lands, returned Mr. Griffin's bill (70) making
                                oppropriation for the Calumet Ditch, with a verbal amendment, with a
                                recommendation that it pass.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. STANFIELD, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts, returned Mr. Merrifield's (36) to amend the 3d
                                section of the act fixing the time of holding the Circuit Court in
                                the 9th Judicial Circuit, with an amendment by way of
                                substitute.
                            The report was concurred in, the amendment adopted, and the bill
                                ordered to be engrossed. 
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            

                                 REVISION AND AMENDMENT OF THE STATE
                                    CONSTITUTION.
                                The SPEAKER announced the special order of the consideration of
                                    Mr. Davis' bill (No. 1) to provide for a Constitutional
                                    Convention, and the amendment of Mr, Hunter, to change the
                                    number of delegates to "one from each Congressional District and
                                    two for the State at large," which was proposed to be amended by
                                    Mr. Shull to this effect: "The said convention shall be composed
                                    of one hundred members, which shall be apportioned as by law
                                    provided for the representation in the House of
                                    Representatives."
                                Mr. DAVIS. It could not so much matter as to who should make the
                                    constitution, since it was to be submitted to the people for
                                    their ratification. Too large a number of delegates was the
                                    great difficulty in the Convention of 1850, and men still
                                    remember the cost of that convention.
                                Mr. SHULL replied. It was not the expense of a convention that
                                    should come in question here. But the people could be hardly
                                    fairly represented with less than the delegation he had
                                    proposed. Fifty members, or thirteen members would never satisfy
                                    a constituency of 200,000 voters.
                                Mr. DOUGHERTY moved the indefinite postponement of the bill. This
                                    was the first question to be decidedwhether we were to have a
                                    convention at all. No petition had come up for this object. The
                                    press had not demanded it but in a very few instances. It had
                                    not been demanded by either of the leading political parties.
                                    But if we were to have convention,he was in favor of the
                                    amendment of Mr. Shull Let us have a convention of men coming
                                    from the people. The gentleman from Monroe had told us that the
                                    present Constitution was adopted in convention and ratified by
                                    the people, without reflection. Well, if "in the multitude of
                                    counsellors there is safety," he would submit, if 150 members
                                    were five months in producing a State Constitution without
                                    reflection, how long would it require thirteen members to
                                    produce a Constitution with reflection? But then did the people
                                    want a new Constitution? No amendment had yet been made to our Constitution, rickety
                                    as it was alleged to be - and he admitted its defects. Even the
                                    fanaticism of Know Nothingism, when it came into these halls in
                                    1855, did not venture to lay hands upon it for amendment. He
                                    prefered the mode of amendment provided for in the Constitution
                                    itself. In this way propositions for amendment could be
                                    presented singly for the ratification of the people - an
                                    advantage of which we could not - agree with the allegation
                                    either that the constitution was rickety, or that it was adopted
                                    by the convention and ratified by the people without reflection.
                                    He rehearsed some distinguished names in that convention, and
                                    recommended the House to indulge in a little reflection on the
                                    pending question. He could not think the people of Indiana were
                                    disposed to tear up their Constitution every seven years.
                                Mr. Speaker GORDON felt that he was instructed by his people on
                                    this question. They regarded revision of the present
                                    Constitution, by means pointed out in the Constitution itself,
                                    as impracticable. He read the constitutional provision for
                                    amendment, to show how long it would require to get a single
                                    modification through requiring the concurrence of two General
                                    Assemblies before any question of amendment could be submitted
                                    to the people: Competition for priority generally defeated these
                                    propositions before the Legislature; for, if we agree at this
                                    session upon an amendment, and recommend it to the next General
                                    Assembly, that General Assembly can recommend no other amendment
                                    until they shall have rejected ours, or shall agree upon it,
                                    concur in recommending it to the people, and the people
                                    themselves shall have passed upon it. Did the convention desire
                                    to eternize their work? If there were no better reason, this
                                    were a good one for the call of another convention. He regarded
                                    the old Constitution as wiser than the present. There were fewer
                                    conflicting decisions under it than under the present, because
                                    the provisions of the present Constitution were themselves
                                    conflicting. It was a legal hotch-potch, involving the people in
                                    continual anxiety as to what their Constitutional rights are and
                                    how far the" can be maintained. This was true as to the
                                    questions of legislation on the subject of temperance, and
                                    especially in our legislation with reference to common schools -
                                    to build up that magnificent scheme of education which Game from
                                    the minds of the framers of the first Constitution, and which
                                    should be open and free to all, from the primary school to the
                                    university. The present Constitution was ratified because it
                                    contained provisions demanded by the people beforehand. In all
                                    fairness of argument, he considered that fifty men could agree
                                    on any important proposition very much sooner than 150 men -
                                    perhaps in one-third of the time. He was opposed to the number
                                    proposed by the gentleman from Monroe. He would have a number
                                    sufficient to represent the wishes of the people fairly. Fifty
                                    would be sufficient, though so restricted a number might cut off
                                    many of us small-fry politicians; and in this he was most
                                    willing to resign his claims to worthier hands.
                                Mr. JORDAN declared his opposition to this bill. He was not
                                    unwilling to allow to the people the exercise of their sovereign
                                    rights ; but he alleged his belief that the people did not
                                    demand another constitution. The people of Indiana knew their
                                    rights, and could assert them. Had they petitioned for this
                                    bill? Had the press declared for it? He had not heard of such a
                                    desire, except around the capital, where there might be a few
                                    interested hotel keepers. He examined the proposed points of
                                    constitutional amendment. The desire to exclude foreign born
                                    citizens from the polls had no place, but in the hearts of the
                                    lingering, unlamented remains of the Know Nothing party. The
                                    Maine Law faction were clamoring for constitutional amendment.
                                    We heard this announced in the late State Temperance Convention.
                                    The peculiar "friends of freedom" also desire itto give them a
                                    fresh opportunity to clamor for the rights of the black race.
                                    But there was a graver reason in the alleged conflicting
                                    provisions of legislation and court decisions under the present
                                    constitution. But this difficulty was more attributable to our
                                    legislation, perhaps, than to the constitution. It was necessary
                                    that the constitution should be understood by men taking upon
                                    themselves the functions of legislation. Even our
                                        Committee on Ways and Means, in the
                                    course of the extra session, to far forgot the constitutional
                                    provision, that no bill shall embrace more than one subject, as
                                    to report a bill with four distinct subjects. He regarded the
                                    constitutional mode of amendment the safest and best. He alleged
                                    that he could hardly regard this as any better than a mere
                                    interested partisan movement against the Democratic party. He
                                    showed the inequality of representation which would result from
                                    apportioning one delegate to each Senatorial district, and gave
                                    examples.
                                Mr. KEMPF. His bill was to make the law correspond with the good
                                    old Jeffersonian doctrine, as it exists in the naturalization
                                    laws of this country.
                                Mr. DAVIS disclaimed the intimation that this bill was the
                                    bantling of political partisanship, and alleged his conviction
                                    that it was demanded by the people at large. But if it were not,
                                    there could be no harm done. It would be quietly voted down.
                                If it was desired by the Temperance and Free-soil parties, they
                                    were right on the question of a a convention, if on nothing
                                    else. He reiterated his objections to the present rickety
                                    concern - running minutely into legislation so far as almost to
                                    destroy itself. The court decisions were fairly taken, he
                                    believed, on the school laws, but with this Constitution in the
                                    way, it would be impossible to build up that magnificent system
                                    of education contemplated in the first Constitution of Indiana
                                    He criticized and deprecated the constitutional provision
                                    requiring every bill here to be read through three times -
                                    together with that system of amendments of laws, swelling out
                                    our Acts of Assembly to four times the size of all the Gospels -
                                    and swelling our journals beyond all reasonable bounds. Then in
                                    regard to the act for the compensation of Common Pleas Judges,
                                    under that Constitution they all must receive $800and yet his
                                    Democratic friend here would insist that such a rickety concern
                                    can not be touched by the people, unless they come up here and
                                    humbly petition us for the privilege of doing  so. He accorded this bill as the
                                    people's right. Was the gentleman afraid of his people's
                                    decision? Look at the thousands this Constitution has cost our
                                    courts, and yet gentlemen say we ought to pause - consider,
                                    before we permit our masters to express their will upon this
                                    question. He was not strenuous about the number of delegates in
                                    the convention. That was a minor matter. If the people were
                                    satisfied with the Constitution why were our tables here every
                                    session so loaded with propositions to amend - ?propositions,
                                    however, which could rarely succeed on account of the
                                    legislative difficulties which the Constitution prescribes. It
                                    seemed to him a question which could not have two sides - could
                                    not have a partisan bearing.
                                Mr. GIFFORD should not treat this as a party question. He was
                                    willing the popular expression should be had; but he regarded
                                    the constitutional provisions for amendment as ample. He
                                    defended that mode of amendment, and was unwilling to give it up
                                    until it should be fairly tried. It had not yet been tested. He
                                    admitted the inefficiency of the school system, but neither had
                                    the Legislature been sufficiently diligent in this important
                                    matter.
                                Mr. AUSTIN. Did the gentleman from Harrison intend to allege that
                                    every friend of this bill were hostile to the foreign born,
                                    citizens of the State? Did he wish to use these citizens for
                                    political purposes? His use of these people were perhaps not
                                    unworthy of being placed by the side of that proposed by the
                                    gentleman from Franklin yesterday, when he desired their mortal
                                    remains in the potter's field, to remain subject to the
                                    dissecting knife of students in medicine, for anatomical
                                    purposes. [Laughter.]
                                Mr. DOBBINS opposed the bill and replied to some of the
                                    objections to the Constitution,submitted by Mr. Davis. He
                                    deprecated the disposition and the tendency to change our
                                    organic law. It might do for Mexico but not for the proud State
                                    of Indiana. But if the bill pass, there should be at least a
                                    hundred members in the proposed convention He regarded it,
                                    however, as premature. He could not think the people required
                                    it.
                                Mr. MELLETT. Opposition to change was a good argument for this
                                    bill. For we could not have permanency under this Constitution.
                                    How many laws in that book of Statutes but were subject to
                                    constitutional objections? He spoke of economy. This
                                    Constitution had given to the Common Pleas Judges $40,000 a year
                                    more than the representatives of the people intended to give
                                    them. He gave an instance of the gentleman from Martin, alleging
                                    that the Supreme Judges have a right to practice law in the
                                    inferior Courts, because that right is extended to every citizen
                                    of good moral character. He saw no force or applicability in it
                                    at the time; but he had just learned that grave Senators in the
                                    other end of the Capitol had so held by a majority this morning.
                                    But it was true that more than half of our decisions were
                                    connected with questions of constitutional construction, &c.
                                    The people wanted a plain, simple Constitution, under which
                                    there could be had simple, compact and intelligible legislation.
                                    He deprecated ail partisan connection with this question. A good
                                    law was equally good for an American, a Republican and a
                                    Democrat. He desired the people to decide this question for
                                    themselves at the ballot-box where they might be removed from
                                    the influence of political leaders. He believed it was demanded
                                    by the people.
                                Mr. BAIRD should oppose this bill all through. The thing was not
                                    so much as heard of in his county. He admired the adroitness of
                                    the gentleman from Floyd, seeking support for his bill on all
                                    sides - from temperance men and hard money men. The gentleman
                                    had objected to the provision requiring that laws shall be
                                    general and uniform. Would he go back to the confused system of
                                    local legislation which induced this constitutional provision.
                                    Now that we understand this constitution and legislating under
                                    it, it would be certainly unwise to throw it aside for a new
                                    one. He admitted its defects, but we were through with these
                                    tribulations, and he was opposed to putting the ship of State at
                                    sea again.
                                Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone. This question was not mooted before his
                                    people. He was opposed to change in this manner. He found the
                                    constitution full of objections and discrepancies. He knew that
                                    the argument that the constitution had cost the people $100,000
                                    was used in favor of its adoption. How should we now cure its
                                    defects? A constitution coming from a convention was to be taken
                                    as a whole- Would it not be better to suffer present ills till
                                    we can amend it in the mode the constitution points out? He
                                    answered many objections to the constitution, and defended the
                                    provisions restricting hasty legislation. Still he admitted the
                                    necessity of changes in the constitution. He knew the people
                                    desired them. Let us submit the desired amendments. Let the
                                    candidates for the next Legislature canvass them two years
                                    hence, and thus we can, in time, cure the defects complained
                                    of.
                                Mr. Speaker GORDON was one of those disposed to defend the right
                                    of revolution. Our fathers had provided for a peaceable process
                                    of revolution. A private individual could, under this principle,
                                    originate a proposition that might become law, even the organic
                                    law of the land. Such a revolution was demanded now, and might
                                    be brought about, he believed, by this bill. He represented no
                                    class, as the hotel-keepers, who he believed, were not always
                                    best paid by those who represented the people here. He
                                    complained of the defectiveness of the constitutional provision
                                    for the apportionment of representation, by which it could be
                                    shown that no Legislature has been legally convened here since
                                    that of 1855. He was in favor of a change to annual sessions of
                                    the Legislature. He was also in favor of a constitution that
                                    would enable us to pass wholesome election laws. He examined the
                                    present law, admitting whole shoals of emigrant voters for want
                                    of the constitutional power to fix some time to constitute a
                                    residence. He was for a provision prescribing a term of time for
                                    residence. He was also for a registration law. It was the
                                    deepest treason to violate the rights and the sanctity of the
                                    ballot box. He also would have a change of the provision in
                                    reference to  the amendment
                                    of laws. The Legislature of 1853 passed 155 acts, and 42
                                    chapters of the 155 of their acts were unconstitutional for one
                                    reason alone. Then in 1857, there had to be a reprint of 25 of
                                    their 66 chapters of acts, which so far doubles the cost of the
                                    public printing. This was an inevitable result of section 2 of
                                    the 4th article of the Constitution, requiring the amended
                                    clause in the bill to be set forth at length. He was for
                                    amendment of the Constitution on the subject of schools. He
                                    objected to the iron bedstead uniformity of that provision.
                                    Nothing could be done anywhere in the State in advance of the
                                    progress of the darker portions. He would have the tallest lead,
                                    and let those who were willing close the files of progress. He
                                    wanted a change also for temperance legislation. It had been
                                    said that the world was taught by three preachers - the Fogy -
                                    the Man of the Present - Man of the Good Time a coming; and it
                                    was true that the latter always left the Conservative to fall
                                    into the grave of the Fogy. Every age was in advance of that
                                    which has gone before. He would give full swing and the utmost
                                    liberty to every civil division in the State.
                                Mr. DOUGHERTY now insisted on his motion for indifinite
                                    postponement - and the yeas and nays being demanded, were
                                    ordered and taken thereon, resulting - yeas 305 nays 47as
                                    follows: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Baird, Bowman,
                                                Clayton, Clements, Tobbins, Dougherty. Durhavn,
                                                Early, Edwards, Firestone, Gifford, Hamilton of
                                                Boone, Hancock, Harney, Johnston, Jordan, Kelley,
                                                Lewis, Major, Massey, Martin, Nelson, Prosser,
                                                Shockley, Shull, Smith, of Perry, Snyder, Sullivan,
                                                Thompson of Madison, Wood - 30. 
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Blythe,
                                                Boyd,Boxley, Branham, Brotherton, Carr, Cavins,
                                                Clark, Cotton, Davidson, Davis, Duvoll, Fordyce,
                                                Gregory, Griffin, Hall, of Grant, Hall, of Rush,
                                                Hamilton, of Wayne, Harrison, Hunterr, Jeffries,
                                                Jones, Kempf, Mansfield, Mellett, Miller, Murray,
                                                Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker, of Warren, Newton,
                                                Parks, Power, Ritter, Robinson, Row, Rynerson,
                                                Scott, Sherman, Smith, of Miami, Stanfield, Stiles,
                                                Thompson, of Elkhart, Turpie, Whetzel, Whiteman, Mr.
                                                Speaker - 47. 
                                        
                                    
                                
                                So the House refused to postpone; and then at 5:10 o'clock -
                                    adjourned. 
                            

                        
                    
                    
                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            
                                SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 1859.
                            
                        
                        On motion by Mr. WEIR the reading of the journal of yesterday was
                            dispensed with.
                        Mr. SLACK, by leave, offered the following resolution, which was adopted,
                                nomine contradicente:
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                    Resolved,That when the Senate adjourn, it
                                        will adjourn to met Monday at 2 o'clock P. M. 
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            APPRAISEMENT OF REAL ESTATE.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON, by leave, introduced a bill (No. 162) to amend
                                sections 6, 8, 9 and 14 of an act to provide for the appraisement of
                                real estate, approved December 21, 1858; also defining the duties of
                                appraisers, deputy appraisers, and the Auditor of State.
                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTO the rules were suspended - yeas 34, nays
                                0, and the bill read by title only, the first and second time.
                            On motion by Mr. LINE the bill was referred to a select committee of
                                one from each Congressional District, which is made to consist of
                                Senators Tarkinsrton. Shoemaker. Anthony, Line, Kinley, Jennings,
                                McLean, Conner, Turner, Hendry and Murray. 
                        
                        
                            BILLS ON THE SECOND READING.
                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER the order of business was suspended and the
                                order of the day taken upbeing Senate bills on the second reading,
                                as follows.
                            Mr. Bennet's (66) authorizing the Auditor of State to declare and pay
                                the final dividends of banking associations organized under an act
                                regulating the business of general banking, approved May 28, 1852.
                                Read and referred to the Committee on Banks.
                            Mr. Conley's (113) to provide for stationary and postage for members
                                [$10 of each to each member] of the General Assembly, providing for
                                employing Reporters and for the publication of proceedings in
                                certain newspapers, and for the taking of the same. Received and
                                referred to the Committee on Finance.
                            Mr. Heffren's (106) providing for the relief of purchasers of real
                                estate at Sheriff's sale under executions issued on judgments
                                against services on recognizances, when such had been taken after
                                the Revised Statutes of 1852 took effect. Read and referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr. Rice's (118) to amend sections 4, 5, 18, 20, 21 and 22 of the law
                                regulating general elections, approved June 17, 1852, to repeal
                                sections 29 and 30 of said act, and adding a provision supplementary
                                thereto. Read and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Cooper's (110) to prohibit Clerks of Circuit and Common Pleas
                                Courts, and their deputies from practicing law in the courts in
                                which they are clerks and deputies. Read and referred o the
                                Judiciary Committee.
                            [The PRESIDENT pro tem, appointed Senators Green
                                and Williams a committee on the part of the Senate to act with a
                                similar committee of the House, for the purpose of investigating
                                alleged Swamp Land frauds, with full powers to send for persons and
                                papers, &c.]
                            Mr. Johnston's (109) to amend sections 1 and 2 of an act to provide
                                compensations to owners of animals killed or injured by any cars,
                                locomotive or other carriage of any railroad company in this State,
                                approved March 1,1853. Read and referred to the Committee on
                                Corporations.
                            Mr. Fisk's (111) to amend section 6 of the 37th chapter of the
                                revised code of 1852, respecting costsjin criminal cases. Read and
                                referred to the  Judiciary Committee.
                            The Committee on Education's (114) to authorize
                                the State Board of Agriculture to purchase and place in county and
                                township libraries bound copies of the Indiana School
                                    Journal. Read and ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Green's (115) to amend section 327 of article 18, chapter 1,
                                Revised Statutes of 1852. Read and referred to the Judiciary
                                Committee.[A message from the Governor announced his approval and
                                signature of Mr. Slack's bill (S. 60) fixing the time of holding
                                courts in the llth Judicial Circuit.]
                            Mr. March's (117) to amend sections 238 and 241 of a law reform act,
                                approved June 18,1852. Read and referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee. 
                            
                             Mr. Murray's (118) to amend section 1 of an act to apportion
                                Senators and Representatives for the next four years, approved March
                                9,1857. Read and referred to a select committee of Senators whose
                                districts are affected by the bill, viz: Senators Murray, Rice,
                                Wagner, Turner, Miller and Conner.
                            Mr. Wallace's, (119) to amend section 5 of an act concerning the
                                partition of land. Read and referred to the Judiciary Committee,
                            [A message from the House announced the passage by that body of Mr.
                                Green's bill (S. 13) attaching the counties of Tipton, Hamilton,
                                Madison, Hancock and Howard to the 7th Judicial Circuit, and fixing
                                the times of holding courts therein.],
                            Mr. Bennett's, (120) to amend an act defining misdemeanors, approved
                                February 19, 1857. Read and referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                            Mr. Green's, (123) to amend sections 142 and 143 of an act to provide
                                for the assessment of real and personal property, approved June 21,
                                1852. Read and referred, to the Committee on the
                                    Organization ot Courts.
                            Mr. Weir's, (122) supplemental to an act to provide for the
                                government and discipline of the State Prison, approved March 3,
                                1855. Read and referred to the Committee on the State
                                    Prison.
                            Mr. Studabaker's (124) to amend section 103 of an act to provide for
                                the assessment of real and personal property, approved June 21,1852.
                                Read and referred to the Committee on
                                Finance.
                            [Mr. GREEN,by leave, presented a petition from John D. Stephenson, of
                                Hamilton, relative to a claim on the Fund Commissioners, which was
                                referred to to the Committee on Finance without
                                reading.]
                            Mr. Blair's, (127) to amend sections 18, 25 and 26 of an act
                                regulating the apportionment of real estate, approved May 14, 1852.
                                Read and referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            Mr. Green's (128) in relation to the publication of legal
                                advertisements. Read and referred to the Committee on the
                                    Organization of Courts.
                            Mr. Bennett's, (129) declaring the having carnal knowledge of blind
                                and insane women, a felony. Read and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Cooper's, (130) to prevent the sale of adulterated liquors. Read
                                and referred to a select committee of five, to consist of Senators
                                Cooper, Heffren, McLean, Stephens and Beeson.
                            Mr. Green's, (132) for the protection of the Sabbath, c., and
                                repealing an act of the same title, approved February 9,1855. Read
                                and ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Jones', (133) respecting the removal of executors, administrators
                                and guardians and the appointment of commissioners to settle their
                                trusts in certain cases. Read and referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                            Mr. Kinley's, (134) providing for the assessment of taxes for
                                township purposes. Read and referred to the Committee on
                                    Education.
                            Mr. McClure's, (135) to provide for issuing fee bills and executions
                                against sureties for costs brought against non-residents. Read and
                                referred to the Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr. Craven's, (136) for the recovery of damages from any officer who
                                shall illegally charge, demand or collect, more than is legally due
                                him as fees. Read and ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Lomax's, (137) to amend sec. 5 of an assessment act, approved
                                June 21, 1852. Read and referred to a select committee of five,
                                which is made to consist of Senators Lomax, Heffren, Tarkington,
                                Murray and Beeson. 
                        
                        
                            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
                            Mr. WALLACE, by leave, offered a joint resolution (No. 10) as
                                follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Be it resolved by the General Assembly of
                                                the State of Indiana, That the General Assembly
                                            of the State of Indiana has no power under the
                                            Constitution to purchase the Wabash and Erie Canal; and
                                            that if it had the power it would be impolitic, unwise
                                            and injurious to the best interests of the people of the
                                            State to purchase said Canal or assume any control over
                                            the same, directly or indirectly. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. CONNER urged its reference to the Committee on Canals
                                    and Internal Improvements, and made a motion to that
                                effect.
                            After brief remarks by Senators Line, Steele, Hamilton, March,
                                Wagner, Murray and Johnston - 
                            Mr. WALLACE moved to lay the motion of reference on the table.
                            The motion was rejected by yeas 19, nays 23.
                            The question then recurring upon the motion to refer to the
                                    Committee on Canals and Internal
                                Improvements, the yeas and nays were demanded, and being
                                ordered and taken, resulted - yeas 25, nays 15 - as follows : 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Beesou, Bobbs,
                                            Carnahan, Conner, Craven, Culver, Green, Hamilton,
                                            Hargrove, Heffren, Hill, Jones, Kinley, McLean, March,
                                            Murray, Odell, Rice, Slack, Steele, Studabaker,
                                            Tarkington, Thompson, Wagner and Weir - 25.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Anthony, Bennett,
                                            Blair, Brown, Cooper, Gooding, Jennings, Johnston, Line,
                                            Lomax, O'Brien, Robinson, Wallace, Williams and Wilson -
                                            15.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. BOBBS, when his name was called, said his constituents are
                                adverse to acting on the subject of this Canal; he was opposed to
                                voting over and over again upon the same kind of a resolution, but
                                he would vote for the reference proposed.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN, when his name was called, said: He had voted on several
                                occasion for a resolution precisely similar to this, and he occupied
                                the same ground now; but in giving a vote to refer he did not
                                consider that would pledge him to any recommendation or bill which
                                the committee might report.
                            Mr. CRAVEN, when his name was called, said, he should vote for the
                                reference, but did not wish to be understood as being opposed to the
                                resolution, for he should vote for it when it came up.
                            Mr. HEFFREN, when his name was called, said: He, like the Senator
                                from Posey, [Mr. Carnahan,] had voted for similar resolutions time
                                and again. He did not propose to take it back, but as Senators seem
                                desirous to have it referred, he did not know that it would hurt the
                                passage of it, and was willing to vote for the reference. Any man
                                that would vote for the taking back of the canal ought to be burned
                                in effigy in every decent neighborhood in the State.
                            Mr. RICE, when his name was called, said he was as much opposed as
                                any Senator to the retrocession
                                of the Wabash and Erie Canal, and would not vote for any such
                                proposition; yet he was in favor of the reference of the resolution.
                                He was opposed to the passage of a resolution couched in the
                                language of the one offered by the Senator from Montgomery [Mr.
                                Wallace.] In the event of the abandonment of the canal by the
                                Trustees, he would be in favor of the Legislature authorizing
                                companies to take charge of that work for the purpose of keeping it
                                up.
                            Mr. ROBINSON, when his name was called, said: I had always been his
                                understanding that this canal had passed out of the hands of the
                                State and had gone to the company holding the bond?, and that it now
                                belonged to and was controlled by that company.
                            Mr. STEELE, when his name was called, said: He stood here committed
                                agaiust the taking back of this canal or the reissuing of one cent
                                of the bonds of the State on its account, because it has been
                                transferred. Like the Senator from Marion [Mr. Bobbs] he was opposed
                                to passing resolutions of this character over and over again every
                                day of the session. He did not wish to charge the Senator from
                                Montgomery [Mr. Wallace] with offering resolutions for buncombe, but
                                if there ever was one he thought this was of that description.
                            Mr. WALLACE, when his name was called, said: He was pledged against
                                the retrocession of the canal. The Senator from Fountain [Mr. Rice]
                                and himself canvassed that county, and both pledged the people that
                                they would oppose any measure that had in contemplation the taking
                                back in any shape or form of this canal. When he was pledged against
                                a thing, he went square through. Whether he came back to this place
                                again or not, never would he put himself in favor of taking back
                                that canal or assuming any control over it. He held that the
                                citizens of Montgomery county had as much interest in this subject
                                as the citizens of any county through which that canal runs. If
                                there should be an act passed assuming the control of it, it would
                                involve an outlay of money, and the people of Montgomery county
                                assisted in replenishing the public treasury as well as other
                                counties of the State. He w[?]shed to place himself upon the record
                                as against the taking back of the canal or assuming any control over
                                it whatever.
                            Mr. WEIR, when his name was called, said: If he had any idei that
                                voting for this reference committed him to the taking back of the
                                canal, either directly or indirectly, he should not so vote.
                            So the motion prevailed, and the resolution was referred to the
                                    Committee on Canals and Internal
                                Improvements.
                            And then the Senate adjourned.
                        

                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                        
                             SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 1859. 
                        
                         Messrs. Black, Hall, of Grant, Hamilton, of Wayne, Tebbs, Nebeker, of
                            Vermillion, Corn-stock, Summers, and Snyder, obtained leave of absence
                            till Monday.
                        Mr. CAVINS presented the petition of sundry citizens residing on Beech
                            Creek, Green county, on the subject of temperance, which was referred to
                            the Committee on Temperance. 
                        
                            SEVENTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
                            Mr. BROTHERTON (the orders being dispensed with for the purpose) from
                                the select committeee thereon, returned the bill (S. 3) attaching
                                the counties of Hancock, Madison, Hamilton, Tipton and Howard to the
                                Seventh Judicial Circuit, and fix the times of holding the courts
                                therein, recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. HAMILTON asked that the bill be now put upon its passage on the
                                third and last reading, and thereupon - 
                            Mr. DAVIS moved a call of the House, which proceeded, until the Clerk
                                reported a quorum present and answering to their names.
                            The orders were then further suspended and the bill (S. 3) was passed
                                the final reading in the House of Representatives, by yeas 67, nays
                                0.
                            [A message from the Governor now announced that he had approved and
                                signed the bill (S. 60) fixing the times of the Courts in the 11th
                                Judicial Circuit.]
                            Mr. STILES (under a further suspension of the orders) from the
                                    Committee on Corporations, returned Mr.
                                Edwards' bill (69) to revise the general Bridge Law, and recommended
                                passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY (by unanimous consent,) introduced a bill (166) to
                                authorize parties to civil actions to be sworn and to testify as
                                witnesses therein.
                            Mr. HUNTER (by consent) introduced a bill(167) to provide for the fee
                                of Sheriffs conveying convicts to the State Prison, and providing
                                punishment for the violation hereof, and to repeal all laws
                                conflicting herewith, which bills were passed the first reading.
                            On motion by Mr. AUSTIN, by consent, the Temperance
                                    Committee's bill (114) to prevent the sale, barter or
                                giving away of intoxicating liquors, &c., was considered on the
                                second reading and referred to a select committee, which the SPEAKER
                                makes to consist of Messrs. Collier, Sherman, Austin, Hunter and
                                Gregory.
                             On motion by Mr. DAVIS, by consent, the bill (S. 116) to fix the
                                time of courts in the Second Judicial Circuit, was considered on the
                                second reading, and referred to a select committee, which the
                                SPEAKER makes to consist of Messrs. Davis, Jordan, Carr, Hancock and
                                Sullivan. 
                        
                        
                            TRANSFER OF INDIANA STOCKS.
                            On motion by Mr. SMITH, of Perry, by consent, the bill (S. 30)
                                providing for the transfer of certificates of stocks of the State of
                                Indiana, providing for a registry of the same, and to prevent
                                fraudulent issue thereof, was taken up and considered on the second
                                reading.
                            Mr. SMITH proposed to amend the bill by way of substitute, and moved
                                that, without reading, the whole be referred to the Committee on the
                                Judiciary.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. SHERMAN, by consent, introduced a bill(168) to amend the act
                                authorizing railroad and turnpike companies to borrow money by
                                mortgage, approved February 7, 1852.
                            Mr. STANFIELD, by consent, introduced a bill (169) for the relief of
                                the heirs at law of John Coran,
                                deceased, and to vest in them certain real estate, which has
                                escheated to the State of Indiana. 
                        
                        
                             INDIANA STATE BOARD OF COLONIZATION. 
                            Mr. FORDYCE, from the Committee on Public Expenditures, reported the
                                expression of opinion, that the subject of the accounts of the Board
                                of Colozination demand immediate legislation and a bill (170)
                                repealing existing laws on the subject of colonization, and
                                providing for another Board(appropriating $8,500 for colonization
                                purposes)which bills were severally passed the first reading.
                            The following report was submitted in connection with the latter
                                bill:
                            The Committee on Public Expenditures, having
                                examined the accounts of the Board of Colonization, believe their
                                condition demands immediate legislation, and for the purpose of
                                laying before the General Assembly that condition, submit the
                                following report:
                            By the act of 1852, the Governor, Auditor and Secretary of State
                                were, ex officio, constituted the State Board of
                                Colonization, and five thousand dollars were appropriated for
                                colonization purposes, three thousand of which were to be used for
                                the purchase of land in Africa, to be called the Indiana Colony, and
                                which was to be divided into one hundred acre lots, for each negro
                                who emigrated from this State to Africa. Such emigrants were also to
                                receive fifty dollars each, if needing aid, to pay expenses for the
                                voyage to that country.
                            By the act of 1853, five thousand dollars were appropriated for that
                                year, and a like sum for 1854, for the purpose of colonization.
                            These sums make an aggregate approprirtion of $15,000.The
                                expenditures have been as follows: 





                            
                                FOR 1853. 
                                
                                    
                                        Names and for what purposes.
                                    
                                    
                                        Amount.
                                    
                                
                                
                                     Jas. Mitchell remitted to Am. Col. Society..... 
                                     $1,000 00 
                                
                                
                                     Bird Webster allowed him as emigrant.......
                                     20 00 
                                
                                
                                    Jas. Mitchell, salary as Agent or Secretary...
                                     170 00 
                                
                                
                                     Jas. Mitchell, salary as Agent or Secretary.....
                                    150 00
                                
                                
                                     Jas. Mitchell paid to Treas. of Am. Col.
                                        Society...
                                    2,000 00
                                
                                
                                    Total for 1853.........................
                                    $3,340 00
                                
                            

                            
                                FOR 1854.
                                
                                    Jas. Mitchell, salary as Agent...........
                                    $150 00
                                
                                
                                     " To colonize negroes...........
                                    250 00
                                
                                
                                     " Salary as Agent..............
                                    143 12
                                
                                
                                     " Salary as Agent............
                                    150 00
                                
                                
                                    A.H. Brown, printing....................
                                    120 17
                                
                                
                                     Total for 1854.................................
                                    $767 25
                                
                            
                            
                                FOR 1855.
                                
                                    Jas. Mitchell, salary as Agent for 1 month.....
                                    $50 00
                                
                                
                                    T.A. Mills, salary as Agent..................
                                    250 00
                                
                                
                                     " " " .................
                                    100 00
                                
                                
                                     " " ".................
                                    200 00
                                
                                
                                     " " " and map of Africa.. 
                                     158 00
                                
                                
                                    Delzell & Tyler, binding reports............... 
                                     9 25
                                
                                
                                     Total for 1855..........................
                                    $767 25
                                
                            
                            
                                FOR 1856.
                                
                                    Jas. Mitchel, salary as Agent during Constitutional
                                        Convention
                                    170 00
                                
                                
                                    Jas. Mitchell, allowance by State Board.......
                                    68 00
                                
                                
                                    Total for 1856.........................
                                    $238 00 
                                
                            
                            
                                FOR 1857.
                                
                                    T.A. Mills, salardy as Agent................
                                    $ 66 00
                                
                                
                                    Jas. Mitchell, traveling expenses...............
                                     100 00
                                
                                
                                     " salary as Agent...............
                                    200 00
                                
                                
                                     " " " .................
                                    200 00
                                
                                
                                    Total for 1857...............................
                                    $566 00
                                
                            


                            
                                FOR 1858.
                                
                                    Jas. Mitchell, salary as Agent..............
                                    $ 66 00
                                
                                
                                     " " " ...............
                                    300 00
                                
                                
                                     " " " ...............
                                    150 00
                                
                                
                                     " " " ................
                                    150 00
                                
                                
                                    Total for 1858...........................
                                    $800 00
                                


                            
                            
                                
                                    Aggregate appropriations..............
                                    $15,000 00
                                
                                
                                    Aggregate expenditures...............
                                     6,499 54 
                                
                                
                                    Leaving unexpended.........................
                                    $8,500 46
                                
                                
                                    Of the expenditures, there are for emigration..
                                    $3,245 00 
                                
                                
                                    For the Secretary........................
                                     3, 025 00 
                                
                            

                            These accounts show that since early in the year 1854 no expenditure
                                has been made to colonize negroes, and that the salary of the Agent
                                is almost equal to the expenditure for colonization purposes proper.
                                This is extraordinary, and demands an examination into the causes
                                which have led to this inaction on the part of the Board of
                                Colonization, and the payment of the Agent for so long a period when
                                nothing was doing.
                            The law of 1852 contemplated the purchase of land for a separate
                                colony, to be called the Indiana Colony. Governor Wright addressed
                                letters to Governor Roberts of Liberia in 1853, asking to be allowed
                                to purchase land at Grand Cape Mount. This was objected to, because
                                Liberia contemplated settling the same place, and "was opposed to
                                transferring it to any State for the exclusive use and benefit of
                                its emigrants; that the granting of one hundred acres to each
                                emigrant would engender jealousies on the part of emigrants from
                                other States; that ten acres was sufficient for an ordinary sized
                                family; and that compact settlements were necessary to protect
                                colonies from the treachery of the natives." In answer to these
                                objection. Governor Wright stated to Governor Roberts, that "the
                                Board desired a location for a settlement in order to benefit its
                                emigrants, and that public sentiment in our State required practical
                                results and the clear evidences of the utility of the appropriations
                                made, which could best be done by founding a settlement and
                                fostering it."
                            Subsequently Liberia commenced a settlement at Grand Cape Mount, and
                                desired the cooperation of our State making it a place of common
                                settlement. It would appear that the Board was divided on this
                                question; another Agent, Mr. Mills, was chosen, who favored the
                                joint settlement.
                            Whilst the correspondence between Governor Wright and Governor
                                Roberts was going on, the Board of Colonization employed Mr. McKay,
                                a colored man, and of good repute, to act as their Agent in this
                                State to pursuade the colored people to emigrate. He went to Liberia
                                also, in order to procure all needful information. Through these
                                efforts thirty-three colored persons in 1853 were induced to emi
                                grate, and to aid them, the above three thousand dollars were placed
                                with the American Colonization Society, which superintended their
                                transportation. Mr. McKay, after his return from Africa, continued
                                as the Agent of the Board, and in 1854, fourteen other emigrants
                                left the State. But one report has ever been made by the Board to
                                the General Assembly, and from those made by Mr. Mitchel, their
                                Agent, it would seem that the Board desired to act in co-operation
                                with the American Colonization Society, and abandon all idea of a
                                separate settlement for the emigrants from our State. The result of
                                this change of policy is thus alluded to by Mr. Mitchell, in his
                                report of February 1857:
                             " During the period that the plan of a settlement at Grand Cape
                                Mount was kept before our people of color, seventy-four moral and
                                worthy emigrants went from this State to Liberia, hut the moment Mr.
                                Mills abandoned that plan, emigration stopped, and McKay, our
                                colored agent, much against my will, resigned his commission and
                                refused to act for the Board; nor could he be much blamed, seeing
                                his feelings were so much enlisted in the original plan."
                            Since this difficulty occurred in 1854, nothing has been done by the
                                Board that your committee can ascertain, and the Agent or Secretary,
                                Mr. Mitchell, has made occasional reports, and some correspondence,
                                of no definite character, has been had with the Governor of Liberia
                                and others.
                            Why this inaction on the part of the Board of Colonization, your
                                committes can not determine, unless it is to be found in the
                                organization of the Board itself. The State officers, ex officio, constitute it, and they are elected to their
                                respective offices, without the least regard to their opinions on
                                the subject of Colonization. They may be earnestly enlisted in it,
                                or they may be coldly indifferent to it, or hostile to it. They are
                                subject to be changed every two years, and, hence, there is no
                                responsibility. No enterprise can be successful that is not placed
                                in the hands of its friends; and hence, your committee believe that
                                the aw is so defective that no reasonable expectation of success be
                                hoped for under it.
                            Governor Wright well understood the public sentiment of our State,
                                when he declared that it required practical results, and clear evidences
                                of the utility of the appropriations made. The practical results
                                which the foregoing expenditures exhibit are very unsatisfactory. If
                                the Board determined to remain inactive, it was their duty to
                                relieve the treasury from the salary of the Agent, who was useful
                                when active operations were carried on. The people will not submit
                                that their money shall go to useless officers instead of to the
                                purposes for which their appropriations have been made.
                            Your committee believe that public sentiment is in favor of granting
                                public aid to colored persons of the State needing it, who may
                                desire to emigrate to Liberia, in accordance with the requirements
                                of the Constitution They,therefore, report the following bill to
                                economically give such aid, and to repeal the existing laws on
                                Colonization, under which so much useless expenditure has been made, 
                            J. RITTER.
                            THOS. GIFFORD. 
                             Mr. PARKS moved an order for printing 200 copies of the Report.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY could see no necessity for printing.
                            The motion was lost.

                        
                        
                             WORK FOR COMMITTEES. 
                             The SPEAKER now directed the second reading of bills of the House of
                                Representatives.
                            Mr. Stiles' bill (101), Mr. Jeffries' (102), Mr. Jones' (105), Mr.
                                Kelley's (106), Mr. Cotton's (109], Mr. Hamilton, of Boone's (110),
                                and Mr. Hunter's 122), were referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Early's bill (103), Mr. Merrifield (113), Mr. Hunter's (115), Mr.
                                Dobbin's (116), Mr. Hunter's (117), were referred to the
                                    Committee on County and Township
                                Business.
                            Mr. Waterman's bill (107), was referred to the Committee on
                                    Education.
                            Mr. Park's bill (108) and Mr. Scott's bill (121) were referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. Major's bill (111 disposition of show license money), was
                                referred to a select committee Messrs. Major, Harvey and
                                Dougherty.
                            Mr. Bowman's bill (112, prohibiting railroads from transporting
                                negroes and mulattoes) was referred to a select committee - Messrs.
                                Bowman, Clements, Stanfield, Sherman and Robinson.
                            Mr. Claypool's bill (1208th Judicial Circuit) was referred to a
                                select Committee-Messrs. Claypool, Hamilton of Boone, Harney,
                                Newton, Johnson, Nebeker of Vermillion and Nebeker of Warren.
                            Mr. DAVIS and Mr. BRANHAM were excused from service on the special
                                committee appointed yesterday to consider Mr. Sherman's bill (No.
                                118) to compel the payment of deposits and bank issues, and Messrs.
                                Stiles and Brotherton were appointed in their places.
                        
                        
                            STATE DEPARTMENT REPORTS.
                            Mr. AUSTIN submitted the following, which was adopted by consent:
                            

                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper be
                                            directed to inquire of the Printer if the reports of the
                                            various departments of State are printed, and if printed
                                            to have them brought to the stationery-room, in order
                                            that they may be distributed to the members to their
                                            constituents, for whose benefit they are prepared and
                                            printed, and report to this House at an early
                                            period.
                                    
                                
                            
                            The House then, at 11 o'clock, according to the standing order,
                                adjourned till Monday, 2 clock P. M. 
                        

                    
                    


                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1859. 
                        
                         The PRESIDENT pro tem, announced the special orderit
                            being Mr. Wallace's bill (S. 2) regulating the choosing of United States
                            Senators by the General Assembly, specifying the time and manner, place,
                            &c., and providing for their designation by the people.
                        Mr. HEFFREN moved to strike out from the enacting clause and insert an
                            entire substitute. He was in favor of some law that would make it
                            obligatory upon the Legislature to elect the officers that it is made
                            their duty to elect, but he believed the plan proposed in the bill under
                            consideration to be impracticable. He thought any law contrary to the
                            one requiring the Legislature to choose United States Senators would be
                            null and void; and believed the Legislature had the only power, under
                            the Constitution ot the United States to choose Senators in the Federal
                            Legislature. He looked upon the proposition to permit the people to
                            designate who should be so elected, as in effect taking away from the
                            Legislature of Indiana the power vested in them; and denying to them the
                            exercise of a right clearly belonging to them and to them alone. But why
                            should gentlemen come in here and ask to strike down the principle that
                            has stood for more than three-quarters of a century? Were this bill to
                            pass and become a law, and were he to become a candidate, (as he would
                            not) to represent the people of Washington and Harrison counties in the
                            Senate again, and every county in the State except those two (which
                            there is no possibility of their doing) should designate Republicans for
                            that office, he would suffer his right arm to be torn from its socket,
                            and his tongue to cleave to the roof of his mouth before he would
                            support them.
                        Mr. WALLACE said that the newspapers of the State in noticing the
                            provisions of this bill had grossly misrepresented it. The papers have
                            said that the bill made it obligatory upon the Legislature to elect the
                            men whom the people may designate at the ballott-box. Such was not the
                            case; but he thought that honorable gentlemen would listen to the voice
                            of the people of the whole State - they would feel themselves
                            responsible to the expressed will of the people, and bound to respect
                            the general voice of the State when they came to the election of the
                            United -States Senators. He then proceeded to answer the declerations of
                            the Senator from Washington, [Mr. Heffren,] that the bill was
                            unconstitutional and impracticable; urging in opposition to these, many
                            arguments in favor of the adoption of the bill under consideration.
                        [A message from the House announced the passage by that body of Mr.
                            Heffren's bill (S 116) fixing the time of holding courts in the 2d
                            circuit: also, the bill (H. R. 11) to amend section 21 of an act to
                            provide for the reorganization of County B oards, and to allow
                            commissioners to levy a tax of not less than one-tenth of one per
                            cent.]
                        Mr. BENNETT. Like the two Senators whc have spoken, he believed there was
                            no question to come before this Legislature that the people of the State
                            were so anxious to have settled. Each party have now played out the game of staving off Senatorial
                            elections, and it is to be hoped we will now go to work and pass a law
                            so that hereafter there will be no trouble in a matter of this kind. No
                            State in the Union has been so disgraced in that matter of electing
                            United States Senators, as the State of Indiana. He was in favor of the
                            bill under consideration if it could be carried out practically. He
                            believed that the people should have the right of even electing the
                            President of the United States by a direct vote. Like the Senator who
                            first spoke, he would not vote for any Democrat for the office of United
                            States Senator even if the people of the State should so designate. He
                            would not vote to carry out the will of the people of the State? but
                            would be governed only by the people who sent him here. He believed in
                            the doctrine of popular sovereignty, but also believed that it could be
                            run so far as to lead to anarchy.
                        Mr. ANTHONY. There are some things in this bill, which look well, but he
                            stood opposed to it. He deprecated the disposition to throw all power
                            into the hands of the people. Every election thrown into their hands
                            hereafter, will distract their attention from matters which are of much
                            more vital importance to them, and render them the more unfit to elect
                            their immediate representatives and officers.
                        Mr. WEIR moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                        The motion was rejected - yeas 13, nays 33.
                        Mr. HEFFREN insisted that the Constitution of the United States expressly
                            says that the United States Senators shall be elected by the
                            Legislatures of the several States - thus vindicating the sovereignty of
                            the individual States. He could not consent to a law that would trample
                            under foot the will of the members of the General Assembly. The
                            substitute proposed by him needed perfection, and ii it should be
                            adopted, he hoped it would be referred to a committee for that
                            purpose.
                        Mr. GOODING regarded the bill of the Senator from Montgomery, (Mr.
                            Wallace,) as doomed. He preferred the original bill, but thought the
                            substitute the next best. We are but the servants of the people, not
                            their masters, and why need we fear to let the people say who are their
                            choice for the highest office in their gift. The people send us here to
                            cast their votes and carry out their wishes, and he knew no surer way to
                            ascertain their sentiments than through the ballot-box. The people of
                            Indiana would do as well as their servants in the election of United
                            States Senators; and they are always to be trusted in the selection of
                            their servants. He who is afraid to trust the people is a weak
                            Democrat.
                        Mr. CONNER moved that the bill and pending amendment, be referred to the
                                Committee on the Judiciary.
                        Mr. MARCH moved an amendment to the amendment, by striking out from the
                            enacting clause and inserting a new bill. He was in favor of the
                            principle indicated in the original bill Nothing that served to
                            strengthen the tower of the people would undermine the foundation of
                            this Government. Legislators represent the majesty and sovereignty of
                            the State; he knew no better way to understand the people than to hear
                            from them through the ballot-box; and if an act of this kind were
                            passed, he had no idea members in this Hall or in the other end of the
                            Capitol would disregard the wish of the people of the State so
                            expressed. He was opposed to joint conventions of the two Houses of the
                            General Assembly for electing these officers, and he hoped that a
                            proposition would be adopted for the election by Concurrent vote. The
                            amendment to the amendment proposed by him, was the bill passed by the
                            Legislature at the extra session, with the exception of the emergency
                            clause, and the section which directs the certifying of election, and
                            punishment for neglect of the same. He withdrew his substitute.
                        Mr. HEFFREN withdrew his substitute, and moved indefinite postponement of
                            the bill
                        Mr. WALLACE was sorry to see a disposition to crush his bill? He had
                            hoped that in after years he would have the privilege of designating at
                            the ballot-box his choice for United States Senators; but when he
                            proposes this he is kindly told that it is demagogical. This is the last
                            session he ever expected to sit in this body-but wherever the records of
                            the session of '57, Of the extra session or of this session show his
                            vote on an act passed, or on a resolution or any vote of his, among them
                            all there was not one which he would look back to with more satisfaction
                            than that which he would give on this proposition, and not one whose
                            failure he would more deeply and sincerely regret.
                        Mr. STEELE could see no necessity for this law. He would vote for a joint
                            resolution embracing a proposition, contained in the bill, but he could
                            not vote for the bill. He charged that this bill was introduced for
                            buncombe.
                        Mr. WALLACE replied to this charge at some length - repudiating and
                            disclaiming any such motive.
                        Mr. WEIR was in favor of the proposition of the Senator from Montgomery
                            [Mr, Wallace] because he believed it to be right and constitutional. All
                            power was in and rested with the people, a no act was done by any
                            Senator without his first thinking how the people of the State would re
                            gard it. In every measure in which the people are interested, Senators
                            should do what they can to promote it. He did not admit it as a new
                            doctrine. If the people were to designate their choice for United States
                            Senators, he should vote to carry out that designation.
                        The motion to indefinitely postpone was rejected by yeas 20, nays 24.
                        Mr. HEFFREN offered his substitute, again, as an amendment to the
                            bill
                        Mr. WALLACE moved to postpone the matter till Monday next at 2
                            o'clock.
                        The motion was agreed to.
                        Mr. CONNER, by leave, offered a resolution, which was adopted, calling
                            for certain information concerning the financial affairs of the Insane
                            Asylum.
                        On motion by Mr. MARCH, the bill (H. R-67) respecting the execution of
                            wills, what may be devised, &c., was taken from the table, and read
                            through.
                        
                         On motion by Mr. SLACK, the rules were uspendedyeas 46, nays 0the bill
                            read the cecond time by title, and referred to the Judiciary
                                Committee.
                        On Mr. HEFFREN'S motion, his Cuba joint resolution was made the special
                            order for 2 o'clock next Thursday week.
                        On motion by Mr. WAGNER, his bill (85) toprovide for a general system of
                            common schools, &c., was taken up, and without reading, referred to
                            the Committee on Education,
                        [A message from the House announced the passage by that body of joint
                            resolutions, directing our Senators and requesting our Representatives
                            to use their influence (H. R. 1) to secure the passage of a law giving
                            bounty land to soldiers of 1842, and (H. R. 18) to abolish the franking
                            privilege.]
                        The bill (H. R. 11) to amend the act for the organization of county
                            boards, approved June 17, 1852, was read.
                        On motion by Mr. MARCH, the rules were suspended - yeas 42, nays 2 - the
                            bill read a second time by title, and referred to the Committee
                                on County and Township Business.
                        And then the Senate adjourned. 


                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            COURT TIMES IN THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
                            Mr. DAVIS, (by consent,) from the select committee on that subject
                                returned the bill (S. 116) fixing the times of holding the Circuit
                                Courts in the Second Judicial Circuit, and recommended its passage;
                                and the same was considered and passed the third and last reading,
                                by yeas 67, nays 4. 
                        
                        
                            COUNTY TAX LEVY.
                            Mr. CAVINS asked for a suspension of the order of business to enable
                                him to move to take up his bill (H. R. 11) to amend the 21st section
                                of the act for the organization of County Boards, of June 17, 1852,
                                so that the Commissioners shall not be compelled to make a levy of
                                more than 10 cents on the hundred dollars, instead of 25 cents, for
                                the liquidation of county bonds, and to have the same considered now
                                on its third reading. He stated the emergency for the passage of
                                this bill in his own county.
                            The motion was agreed to, and the bill was taken up and passed the
                                final reading in the House of Representatives, by yeas 71, nays 2,
                                with an amendment of title by Mr. STANFIELD, viz: adding these
                                words: "so as to allow the Commissioners to make a levy of not less
                                than 1-10th of one per cent."
                            On motion by Mr. DAVIS, it was ordered that his bill (1) be made the
                                special order for Thursday, two o'clock.
                            Mr. STANFIELD, from, the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary, returned Mr. Shull's bill (41) to amend the
                                9th section of the act providing for the election of Circuit Court
                                Clerks, of May 7, 1852, with the expression of opinion that further
                                legislation on the subject is unnecessary, and a recommendation that
                                the bill be indefinitely postponed.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. BROTHERTON, from the Committee on Courts of
                                    Justice, returned Mr. Griffin's bill (25) to amend the
                                10th section of the Justices' act of May 19, '52, recommending that
                                it be laid on the table, as in the opinion of the committee further
                                legislation on that subject is inexpedient.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. STANFIELD, from the same committee, returned Mr. Parks' bill (90)
                                providing for the election of County Prosecuting Attorneys; &c.,
                                alleging that, as the Constitution requires prosecutions in the
                                Circuit Court shall be prosecuted by the Circuit Prosecutor, it
                                would be inexpedient to have a prosecutor for each county, and
                                therefore they recommend that the bill be indefinitely
                                postponed.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. BROTHERTON, from the same committee, to whom the subject had been
                                referred, reported a bill (No. 171) declaring it to be a misdemeanor
                                for any Clerk of the Circuit Court to refuse to issue writs arid
                                summonses when properly demanded, &c.,which was passed the first
                                reading. 
                        
                        
                            SOLDIERS OF THE WAR OF 1812.
                            Mr. CLAYPOOL, from the Committee on Military Affairs, returned Mr.
                                Durham's joint resolution (No. 1) memorializing Congress for a
                                pension for the soldiers of the war of 1812, with an amendment,
                                adding these words: "And that the Governor be requested to forward a
                                certified copy of this resolution to each of our Senators and
                                Representatives in Congress "
                            The report was concurred in, the amendment adopted, and the joint
                                resolution adopted - yeas 69. nays 0.
                            Mr. NELSON, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges, returned a
                                petition with respect to interest on moneythe committee having
                                heretofore reported on that subject. The petition was laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. BROTHERTON, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned the petition of sundry citizens
                                of Laporte county, asking for a landlord lein law, with the
                                expression of opinion that legislation on the subject is
                                inexpedient.
                            The report was concurred in. 

                        
                        
                            DELIQUENT ROAD TAX.
                             Mr. DURHAM, from the Committee on Roads, returned the resolution as
                                to amendment of the law so as to allow supervisors credit on their
                                road work, instead of paying them out of the township fund, lor
                                their extra work as supervisors, with the expression of opinion that
                                any change in the law is inexpedient. 
                            Messrs. DOUGHERTY and HUNTER demanded the yeas and nays, which
                                resulted - yeas 36, nays 36 - as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messs. Austin, Baird, Bowman,
                                            Boxley, Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark, Clayton,
                                            Durham, Early, Easthain,Firestone, Gifford, Hamilton of
                                            Wayne, Hancock, Jeffries, Jones, Kelley, Kempf, Major,
                                            Mansfield, Massey, Nebeker of Warren, Nelson, Power,
                                            Scott, Sherman, Shull, Smith of Miami, Smith of Perry,
                                            Stanfield, Sullivan, Treadway, Wheeler and Wood - 36. 
                                        NAYS - Messsrs, Boyd, Claypool,
                                            Clements, Collier, Davis, Dobbins, Dougherty, Duvol,
                                            Edwards, Fordyce, Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Rush,
                                            Hartley, Johnston, Jordon, Keefer, Lewis, Mellett,
                                            Miller, Murray. Martin, Newton, Parks, Prosser, Ritter,
                                            Robinson, Row, Shields, Shockley, Stiles, Thompson of
                                            Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Turpie, Whetzel and Mr
                                            Speaker - 36 
                                    
                                
                            

                            
                             So the House refused to concur.
                            Mr. PARKS moved to recommit the report, with instructions to report a
                                bill.On motion by Mr. BOYD, the subject was referred to a select
                                committee, which the Speaker makes to consist of Messrs. Boyd,
                                Turpie, Scott, Sullivan and Mellett.
                            Mr. DURHAM, from the same Committee, returned the resolution for
                                amendment of the law so as to require moneys to be expended for the
                                improvement of roads in the district where collected, and reported
                                their opinion that such legislation is inexpedient.
                            Mr. KEEFER demanded the yeas and nays on the question of
                                concurrence.
                            Mr. MURRAY. The money delinquent never comes back; but it goes to the
                                county by a general distribution, which is unequal, and matter of
                                complaint among the people.
                            Mr. PROSSER. The fault is in the officers not in the law. The law
                                plainly requires the Supervisor to expend this money within the
                                district.
                            Mr. MURRAY. The delinquent money is turned over to the County
                                Treasurer, and distributed as I have stated.
                            Mr. PROSSER read from the Acts of 1855, page 93.
                            Mr. PARKS. That did not respect the delinquent money, &c. He
                                moved that this matter be referred to the Select
                                    Committee, under Mr. Boyd's motion.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, and Mr. KEEFER, desired the law amended so as to
                                make the money certainly applicable where it has been collected. Mr.
                                Parks' motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed instructions: that the Select
                                    Committee report a provision, "amending the law so as
                                to compel the proper county officers to return all delinquent road
                                tax money of the several road districts in the county, to th.e
                                district to which it belongs."
                            The instructions were agreed to.
                            Mr. DURHAM, from the same Committee, returned the resolution as to
                                amendment of the laws, so as to require the two days labor to be
                                expended before the first day of August, instead of the first of
                                June, and reported, that such an amendment of the law is
                                inexpedient. The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. EARLY, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Mr. Early's bill to amend the 110th
                                section of the school law, and to legalize certain assignments
                                therein specified, with an amendment by way of substituterequiring
                                acknowledgements of assignments of certificates by the proper county
                                officers, and legalizing former assignments.
                            Which was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. HARRISON, from the same committee, returned the petition of Mr.
                                McCoy and others, for attaching the Congressional School Township 35
                                to Elkhart county, moving to lay it on the table, for the reason
                                that it would infringe upon the constitutional provision against
                                local legislation, and that the provision of law is ample for their
                                case.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. MARTIN, from the same committee, returned the resolution for
                                amendment of the road act of June 17, 1852, so as to give
                                petitioners the right to determine the width of their proposed
                                township roads, and reported that legislatson on the subject is
                                inexpedient.
                            Mr. MELLETT, from the same committee, returned Mr. Merrifield's bill
                                (No. 113) to amend the 5th section of an act entitled an act
                                providing for the election and appointment of supervisors of
                                highways, and prescribing certain of their duties and those of
                                county and township officers in relation thereto, approved June 18,
                                1852, recommending that it be indefinitely postponed.The report was
                                concurred in.
                            Mr. CLAYPOOL, from the Committee on Engrossed
                                    Bills, reported the bill (No. 27) as correctly
                                engrossed.
                            The SPEAKER. It is a rule of the House, that the Committees
                                    on Engrossed and Enrolled Bills can report to the
                                Clerk at any time, without taxing the time of the House.
                            Mr. RITTER, from the Committee on Public
                                    Expenditures, responding to a resolution of the House,
                                submitted a lengthy report, embracing a statement of the moneys
                                audited, to Henry Coburn and Wm. B. Beach, clerks of the Supreme
                                Court, and moneys audited on account of the Supreme Court -
                                complaining of improper bookkeeping, and reporting a joint
                                resolution requiring the Attorney General to institute suit for the
                                recovery of all moneys illegally paid out of the Treasury of the
                                State to Wm. B. Beach.
                            On motion by Mr. DOUGHERTY, the report and joint resolution were
                                referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. RITTER, from the same Committee, also reported a bill (172) to
                                repeal the act to provide for the restoration and preservation of
                                the records of the Supreme Court, approved February 7, 1855, which
                                was passed the first reading. 
                        
                        
                            UNAUTHORIZED PAPER CURRENCY.
                            Mr. STANFIELD, from the select committee thereon, returned Mr.
                                Martin's bill (12) to prevent the issuing and circulation of
                                unauthorized paper currency, and prescribing penalties for the
                                issuing or failure to redeem such currency, and the Senator's
                                amendments thereto, recommending the adoption of said amendments,
                                adding:
                            Sec. 7. That nothing in this act shall be so construed as to permit
                                any person or persons, company, firm, association or corporation in
                                this State, other than the Bank of the State of Indiana and her
                                Branches and all banks incorporated under the provisions of the act
                                entitled an act to authorize and regulate the business of general
                                banking, approved May 28, 1852, and acts amendetory thereto, to
                                issue and put into circulation any such paper.
                             The report was concurred in, the amending adopted; and it was
                                ordered that the Clerk acquaint the Senate therewith. 

                        
                        
                            RESOLUTIONS.
                            By Mr. DOBBINS, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Corporations report back the bill to
                                            provide compensation to the owners of animals killed by
                                            railroads, approved March 1,1853. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             By Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, which was adopted:
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Benevolent Institutions inquire into
                                            the expediency of providing some plan by which the
                                            incurable insane patients of that Asylum shall be
                                            provided for by the State, at the expense of the
                                            State.

                                    
                                
                            
                            y Mr. MURRAY, which was adopted - to the effect, that the
                                    Committee on Agriculture report a bill making
                                it the duty of the assessors to report the number of bushels of
                                wheat, corn, oats and barley harvested yearly in each township in
                                the State, and offer the local statements for publication in the
                                local newspapers. 

                        
                        
                            COMMON SCHOOLS.
                            By Mr. BOWMAN, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            WHEREAS, The Constitution of the
                                            State of Indiana has made it the imperative duty of the
                                            General Assembly to provide, by law, for a general and
                                            uniform system of common school, wherein tuition shall
                                            be without charge, and equally open to all; and
                                        WHEREAS, The inefficiency of the
                                            present system is a subject of general complaint
                                            throughout the State, arising in part from the depleting
                                            process to which the funds have been subjected as they
                                            passed through the State treasury for the purpose of
                                            equalization and general distribution, and
                                        WHEREAS, By such means the people have
                                            been deceived in the paying of interest and taxes for
                                            the support of schools, and their children have been
                                            deprived of the benefit of the proceeds thereof, to the
                                            amount of upwards of $186,000, as shown by the late
                                            report of the Auditor of State. Therefore,
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Education be requested to inquire into
                                            the expediency of so amending the present school law, as
                                            to require the entire annual income of the common school
                                            funds to be distributed and paid out each year, for the
                                            support of common schools, and for "no other purpose
                                            whatever," together with such portion of the
                                            undistributed surplus now in the State Treasury, as may
                                            be compatible with the interests of the State and the
                                            Constitutional rights of her children 
                                    

                                
                            
                        
                        
                            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
                            By Mr. MILLER, which was rejected: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS,The Trustees of the Wabash and
                                            Erie Canal have signified in their report to the
                                            Legislature, that it is the intention of the bond
                                            holders to abandon the working of said canal, and
                                         WHEREAS, By the action of said
                                            Trustees in dischargingnearly all the employees along
                                            the line of said canal,they in a manner confirm, that
                                            supposed intention,therefore, be it
                                        Resolved, That the said Trustees be and
                                            the same are hereby requested to inform this House, at
                                            their earnest convenience, what may be their exact
                                            intentions with reference to said canal. 

                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HARTLEY, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Judiciary Committee
                                            inquire into the expeidency of a law making it a
                                            misdemeanor for any person to violate the laws of our
                                            State relating to weights and measures. 
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            COMMON PLEAS.
                            By Mr. CAVINS, which was rejected: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on the Organization of Courts be
                                            instructed to inquire into the expediency of as amending
                                            the act organizing the Court of Common Pleas,as follows,
                                            to wit:
                                        1st. So that said court shall sit but twice during one
                                            year.
                                        2nd. So that the first two days of each term shall be
                                            devoted exclusively to proate business, and making up
                                            issues.
                                        3rd. That a Jury shall not attend until the third day of
                                            each term. The above amendments to be made, if said
                                            court is not abolished. 
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        
                            GRAND LARCENY
                            By Mr. MURRAY, which was rejected:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,By Mr. MURRAY, which was
                                            rejected: Resolved, That the Committee on the Judiciary
                                            be instructed to inquire into the expediency of so
                                            amending the law defining Grand Larceny, as to fix the
                                            amount stolen atten dollars and upwards, instead of five
                                            dollars and uwards as law now requires, and to provide
                                            punishment in some other mode for thefts under ten
                                            dollars in amount, than confinement in the
                                            Penitentiary.
                                    
                                
                            
                            By Mr. MAJOR, which was rejected:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Judiciary be instructed to enquire into
                                            the expediency and constitutionality of law declarative
                                            of what constitutes a voter's domicile, and report by
                                            bill or otherwise. 
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        
                            FILING CONSTABLES' BONDS.
                            By Mr. MURRAY, which was rejected:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                the Judiciary be instructed to report a
                                            bill amendatory of the law in regard to the filing of
                                            constable's bonds, so as to be filed with the Board of
                                            Township Trustees. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            By Mr. MASSEY, which was rejected:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the committee on
                                                fees and salaries be instructed to inquire
                                            into the expediency of amending the present law so as to
                                            allow Jurors, who may live more than seven miles from
                                            the county seat, the sum of one dollar and fifty cents
                                            per day, and mileage. 
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            ORDER OF BUSINESS.
                            By Mr. ROBINSON, which, being a proposition to amend the rules, lies
                                over one day: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That from and after the
                                            adoption of this resolution, the orders of the day shall
                                            take precedence of resolutions and the introduction of
                                            bills.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            POSTAGE.
                            Mr. KEEPER submitted a joint resolution (No. 18) instructing our
                                Senators, and requesting our Representatives in Congress, to vote
                                against any increase of letter postage, and also to vote for a bill
                                to abolish the franking privilege; which was considered and adopted,
                                by yeas 58. nays 17; and it was ordered that the Clerk acquaint the
                                Senate therewith. 
                        
                        
                            ADMISSION OF KANSAS.
                            Mr. CAVINS submitted the following joint resolution (No. 19:)
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, &c., That our Senators in
                                            Congress be instructed, and our Representatives
                                            requested, to vote for the admission of Kansas into the
                                            Union as a State, whenever she shall apply to Congress
                                            therefor, with a constitution Republican in form,
                                            consistent in its provisions with the Constitution of
                                            the United States, and adopted by the vote of a majority
                                            of her people, fairly expressed, without regard to what
                                            shall be the opinion of her people on the subject of
                                            slavery, and without regard to her population. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. KEEFER. We have already passed a resolution like that.
                            Mr. MURRAY. Just like it, only a little better.
                            The SPEAKER. The Chair does not understand that such a resolution has
                                been passed.
                            Mr. JORDON moved to lay it on the table, which was lost - yeas 24,
                                nays 40.
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed to amend by striking out all that part of the
                                resolution which relates to slavery.
                            Mr. CAVINS. That was the very question he desired to have a vote on
                                by the Republicans of this House, and it was for their benefit he
                                had offered the resolution. It was Republican doctrine, as he
                                understood it. It was assumed by Judge Morton in the last
                                Gubernatorial contest. Judge Morton took the position that the
                                people have a right to shape their own institutions. The later
                                platform of Indiana Republicans had one of its points to the same
                                effect. His object was to wipe out that record which some of the
                                Republicans of this body made the other day on the resolution of the
                                gentleman from Morgan [Mr. Dougherty.]
                            The SPEAKER. There was no record made on that resolution.
                            
                            Mr. CAVINS. There was a record made on that resolution in the
                                Sentinel, if no where else and it was a correct record. Now, I want
                                to know if the Republicans of this House are going to stand up to to
                                at resolution, and to the platform we adopted last March; or whether
                                they prefer to act with those who would establish new tests, and
                                drive out of the party those who have hitherto stood firm and
                                foremost in the contest. He hoped they would not now refuse to
                                recognize the very doctrine which was announced all over the State
                                by every candidate we elected to Congress last fall, &c.
                            Mr. JEFFRIES was on the record as a Republican - against Kansas
                                coming into the Union as a slave State.
                            Mr. MURRAY. In 1820 that Territory was dedicated to freedom by Henry
                                Clay and his compeers; and in 1854, the Missouri Compromise, which
                                so dedicated if, was stricken down by Stephen A. Douglas. For this
                                reason he was firmly opposed to Kansas coming into the Union as a
                                slave State. He did not cringe to any principle permissive of
                                Kansas' admission as a slave State.
                            Mr.BAIRD If that joint resolution was not Republican in doctrine,
                                then he was not a Republican. But it was Republican. He was in favor
                                of popular sovereignty. The Democrats went a little farther, and
                                professed squatter sovereignty, &c. The mistake of the
                                Democratic party was in the declaration that Congress have no power
                                to legislate on the subject of slavery, yet they may delegate that
                                power to the Territorial Legislature. Judge Taney had decided
                                against that, &c.
                            Mr. RITTER desired to amend, it in order, by adding these words: "And
                                it is hereby expressed as the opinion of this House, that the people
                                of a Territory have the right to exclude slavery during the time
                                they are in territorial condition." He was as much opposed to
                                slavery as any man. No Republican nor any man of any party pretended
                                to hold, that when the people of a Territory came to make a State
                                Constitution, they could" not decide the question of slavery; but he
                                desired to be clear,very clear in. this expression, and to admit
                                this power to the people before that. He never had advocated any
                                other doctrine. He wished now to go upon the record us he had stood
                                before the people. But still he was opposed to Kansas coming in with
                                slavery at any time for the reason alleged by the gentleman from
                                Elkhart, &c.
                            Mr. JORDAN submitted the following substitute: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the harmonious
                                            Republican party be permitted to hold a caucus to-night
                                            at early candlelighting for the purpose of reorganizing
                                            their forces. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             The SPEAKER. It is not in order.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, supported the resolution; defining his position
                                thereon, which had suffered no change from the beginning - in favor
                                of popular sovereignty. He never could fear that Kansas would be a
                                slave State.
                            Mr. POWER defined his position to the question, speaking at length of
                                its aspects in his county, and what the Democracy claimed in 1849.
                                If Kansas came with a Constitution republican in form, he was in
                                favor of her admission, with or without slavery.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, criticised the course of the Democratic party
                                and the Administration and their position to the question ot popular
                                sovereignty. That principle would not do for the Democracy. It was
                                an eternal principle of right. He never heard it contradicted until
                                it was repudiated by the Buchanan Democracy.
                            The SPEAKER announced the question to be on the amendment of Mr.
                                Murray, and the yeas and nays were demanded and ordered.
                            Mr. AUSTIN. He should never vote for this or any other resolution for
                                the admission of Kansas as a slave State. He had been consistently
                                and remained firmly opposed to the extension of slavery, and he gave
                                reasons. He was for the amendment.
                            Mr. BRANHAM demanded the previous question, and under its force the
                                amendment was rejected, by yeas 12, nays 54; and the resolution was
                                adopted by yeas 51, nays 10 - as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Baird, Blythe, Boyd,
                                            Branham, Cavins, Claypool, Claypool, Collier, Cotton,
                                            Davis, Dobbins, Dougherty, Durham. Duvol, Edwards,
                                            Firestone, Fordyce, Gifford, Gregory, Griffin, Hall of
                                            Rush, Harney, Harrison, Hartley, Hunter, Jones, Keefer,
                                            Kelly, Lewis, Mansfield, Massey, Martin, Nebeker of
                                            Warren, Nelson, Newton, Power, Prosser, Ritter, Row,
                                            Scott, Sherman, Shockley, Shull, Smith of Miami, Smith
                                            of Perry, Stanfield, Stiles, Thompson of Madison,
                                            Whetzel, Wood and Mr. Speaker.- 51.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Boxley,
                                            Brotherton, Clark, Hamilton of Wayne, Jeffries, Mellett,
                                            Murray, Parks and Thompson of Elkhart - 10. 
                                        Present and not voting - Messrs,
                                            Jordon, Kempf, Robinson, Treadway and Turpie. 
                                        Paired off - Messrs, Davidson, Johnston
                                            and Wheeler.
                                    
                                
                            
                             So It was ordered, that the Clerk acquaint the Senate with the
                                passage of the joint resolution.
                            On motion by Mr. STANFlELD, Mr. Davis had leave of absence till
                                Thursday.
                            Mr. HUNTER made an ineffectual motion for a night session;and then - 
                            The House (at 5:12 o'clock) adjourned. 
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             TUESDAY, February 1, 1859. 
                        

                        Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee returned the
                            bill (H. R. 67) supplemental to an act prescribing who may make a will,
                            the effect thereof, what may be devised, &c., approved May 31, 1851,
                            recommending its passage.

                        The report was concurred in, the bill considered as engrossed, read the
                            third time, and finally passed the Senate by yeas 40, nays 0.

                        Mr. STEELE, by leave, presented a petition from sundry citizens of Parke
                            and Fountain counties, praying for the levying of a tax to assist the
                            bondholders in keeping up the Wabash and Erie Canal, which was referred
                            to the Committee on Canals and Internal
                            Improvements.

                        Mr. TARKINGTON, from the Committee on Education,
                            returned his bill (62) for the relief the Indiana University, providing
                            for the sale its lands [19,040 acres] &c., recommending passage.
                        Mr. WEIR thought there should be passed providing for the gradual sale of
                            these lands, which would be a great deal better for the  interests of the University, than the
                            present proposition to sell at once.
                        Mr. GOODING hoped the bill would not pass. He desired that a sufficient
                            amount of the land should be sold to meet the immediate liabilities of
                            the University; but was not willing that the door should be opened for
                            the sale of the entire amount of lands belonging to the University.
                        Mr. McLEAN hoped the bill would pass. The bill provides that the lands
                            shall be appraised, and sold for the full appraised value. He had
                            sufficient confidence in the Board of Trustees to say they will not sell
                            all the lands unless they can sell them for a fair price, and only so
                            much of the same as will meet the demands of the University.
                        Mr. CARNAHAN. If the Trustees had made a report showing the financial
                            condition of the University, he might vote for the bill, but as the case
                            stood he was opposed to putting this power into their hands without
                            knowing the actual condition of the affairs of the University.
                        Mr.TARKINGTON. This bill simply provides for the sale of such portions of
                            the lands as will meet the demands of the University; to be sold for a
                            part cash in hand and the balance on a credit of ten years at seven per
                            cent interest. He proceeded at some length to explain and set forth the
                            condition of the University at the Present time, urging as a matter of
                            necessity for the well-being of the institution the immediate Passage of
                            the bill.
                        Mr. WEIR thought the Trustees should have made a report to the
                            Legislature at this time in order that members may vote understanding
                            for the relief of the University, even if the law did - not require them
                            so to do. The Legislature - was entitled to a report, and should not go
                            it blind by voting for this relief without some information upon the
                            subject- what the necessities are, the cost of the building, amount of
                            lands owned by the University, how situated, &c., &c.
                        Mr. WAGNER thought the bill ought to pass for various reasons. He would
                            be in favor of selling the land and paying off the debts with the
                            principal, but that can't be done, the debts must be paid by the
                            interest accruing from the amount received by the sale of these lands.
                            The Board claim they ave the right to sell without the authority of the
                            Legislature, and that being the probability, he thought it right,
                            proper, and prudent, that we should pass this bill at this time. The
                            lands are being sold and until the debt is paid off.
                        Mr. WALLACE confessed it to be all darkness to him, but thought this bill
                            substantially the same as the one offered in the session of '57. Before
                            he voted for a bill of this kind he would like to have a report showing
                            the debts of the Institutions, it's financial condition, &c. The
                            bill proposes to strip the University of some 19,000 acres of land, and
                            that was a poor way to increase the endowment of the University. He
                            regarded the Institution as nothing more than a county seminary, and
                            expressed himself in favor of keeping these lands for the purpose of
                            building a University that would be an honor to the State, and would
                            compare somewhat with the Institutions for the Blind, Deaf, and
                            Dumb.
                        Mr. TARKINGTON replied with some feeling to the insinuations cast against
                            this State University at Bloomington - declaring that it had flourished
                            without money, built a beautiful college building at a cost of $15,000,
                            and increased its number of students from 45 to 175 students, within a
                            few years. Unless some provision of the kind proposed in this bill be
                            made at this session by the Legislature, these lands will all be
                            frittered away before the next session o! the General Assembly.
                        Mr. WILLIAMS thought the Senator from Brown [Mr. Tarkington] had given a
                            true history of the affairs of the University. If for no other reason he
                            would vote for the bill, in order to get these lands settled and
                            cultivated.
                        Mr. WALLACE had a conversation this morning with one of the Trustees, who
                            said he lad neither read the bill nor knew of any of the provisions in
                            it.
                        Mr. MARCH trusted the Senate would concur in the report, and before the
                            bill comes up on its passage Senators could inform themselves about the
                            bill.
                        Mr. BOBBS. If there were any other means to defray these debts than by
                            the sale of these lands, he would vote against the bill, but as he knew
                            of no other way, he should vote for it.
                        Mr. CARNAHAN did not wish to urge a facious opposition to this bill. At
                            first, he was under the impression that a large portion of these lands
                            were under cultivation, and thus a source of revenue to the University,
                            and that a number of students were pay students; but as this appears to
                            be a mistake, he felt disposed to favor the bill, at least he should
                            vote for a concurrence in the report.
                        The report was then concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                            engrossed.
                        Mr. RICE, from the Committee on Education, to which
                            was referred a communication from Prof. Mills, on the subject of the
                            school law of Indiana, returned the same and recommended the printing of
                            500 copies.
                        The report was concurred in.
                        Mr. McLEAN, from the same committee, returned a joint resolution upon the
                            subject of distributing such schools funds as may arise from icts of the
                            Legislature, recommending favorable action thereon.
                        The report was laid on the table.
                        Mr. HEFFREN, from the same committee returned Mr. Lomax's bill (S. 39) to
                            amend the law regulating the election of Clerks of Circuit Courts,
                            approved June 7,1852, recommending its passage.
                        The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                        Mr. STUDABAKER, from the Committee on Corporations,
                            returned Mr. Bobbs' bill (S. 71) to incorporate the Indiana School of
                            Practical Science, recommending that it be laid on the table, because of
                            its being in conflict with sec. 13, art. 9, of the State
                            Constitution.
                        The report was concurred in.
                        Mr. WILLIAMS, from the Committee on Roads, returned a
                            resolution giving the County Commissioners power to levy a tax for the
                            making of turnpike, gravel and other highways upon  petition from citizens therefor,
                            recommending indefinite postponement of the subject.
                        The report was concurred in.
                        Mr. WEIR, from the Committee on the State Prison, returned his bill (122)
                            supplemental to a Prison act of March 3, '55, with an amendment
                            providing that the act should be read to the convicts occasionally, and
                            recommending its passage.
                        The report was concurred in, and the amendment adopted.
                        [A message from the House announced the passage of a joint resolution (H.
                            R. 19) instructing our Senators, and requesting our Representatives in
                            Congress to vote for the admission of Kansas into the Union without
                            regard to population, slavery, &c ; also the concurrence of that
                            body in the Senate amendments to the shin plaster bill (H. R. 12) and
                            the addition of a section ]
                        Mr. GOODING proposed to amend so as to provide that when a prisoner has
                            been sentenced for life, he shall be discharged at the end of twenty-one
                            years' service, provided his conduct shall be good during the time of
                            said service.
                        Mr. HEFFREN and Mr. BENNETT opposed the amendment.
                        Mr. GOODING sustained his amendment, and quoted authorities in
                            justification of the proposition.
                        [A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of Mr.
                            Heffren's bill (S. 116) fixing the time of holding Courts in the 2d
                            Judicial Circuit; also, Mr. Green's bill, (S. 3) attaching the counties
                            of Hamilton, Hancock, Madison, Tipton and Howard to the 7th Judicial
                            Circuit.]
                        Mr. STEVENS expressed himself as in favor of the adoption of the
                            amendment proposed.
                        Mr. MARCH concurred in the belief "that the criminal law should be
                            inflicted for the purpose of reformation and to keep community from
                            crime. He proposed an amendment to the amendment, adding the words: "and
                            shall give satisfactory evidence of change of conduct."
                        Mr. SLACK was opposed to the amendment.
                        Mr. WALLACE referred to the advantages of the criminal on trial, and
                            spoke in opposition to the amendments proposed.
                        Mr. HARGROVE moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                        Mr. CARNAHAN moved to amend by laying the bill and pending amendments on
                            the table.A division of the question being called for, the amendment and
                            the amendment to the amendment were severally laid on the table.
                        The question recurring upon laying the bill on the table, it was not so
                            laid.
                        The bill was then ordered to be engrossed for a third reading.
                        Mr. STEELE, from the Committee on Banks, returned Mr.
                            Tarkington's shinplaster bill, (S. 7) recommending that it lay on the
                            table.
                        The report was concurred in.
                        Mr. GOODING, from the Committee on Temperance,
                            returned Mr. Tarkington's temperance bill, (S. 97) recommending that it
                            lie upon the table, and reporting a substitute therefor.
                        The report was concurred in, and the substitute being bill (No. 163,) an
                            act regulating the sale, giving or bartering away of spirituous and
                            intoxicating liquors, &c., lies upon the table until it comes up in
                            the orders of the day.
                        Mr. WILLIAMS, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
                            returned a resolution of inquiry requiring constables to file their
                            official bonds, and reported legislation upon the subject as
                            inexpedient.
                        The report was concurred in.
                        Mr. TARKINGTON, from a select committee, returned his bill (S. 142) to
                            amend sections 5, 8, 9 and 14 of the appraisement act, approved December
                            26, 1858, defining the duties of appraisers and their deputies and the
                            Auditor of State, recommending its passage.
                        The report was concurred in, the bill considered as engrossed, read a
                            third time and finally passed the Senate by yeas 37, nays 6. 
                        Mr. FISK, from a select committee, returned his temperance bill (10) with
                            sundry amendments recommending its passage.
                        The report was concurred in, and a motion that the bill and pending
                            amendments be laid on the table, was lost by yeas 19, nays 21.
                        Mr. SLACK moved an amendment, striking all that requires the payment of
                            money for license.
                        Mr. WAGNER was opposed to all license in any shape or form whatever. He
                            thought it a moral and social evil - wrong in all its bearings. He would
                            vote for this amendment, and whenever the question comes up directly,
                            would always vote for no license. He hoped to have an opportunity to
                            vote for a bill which will prohibit the existence of these hell-holes,
                            and yet not contemplating the licensing and authorizing these things to
                            exist. He could not consent to license the increase of the amount of
                            crime by selling the right to commit crime; for in that the State became
                            a partner in the commission of that crime.
                        Mr. WEIR was opposed to any license system, but was willing to compromise
                            on a small license law. When he concluded - 
                        The Senate took recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION. 
                            The special order for this hour [2 o'clock] being Mr. Wallace's joint
                                resolution (S. 5) instructing our Senators and requesting our
                                Representitives in Congress to vote for the admission Kansas into
                                the Union whenever the people demand it. [ It is printed in page 81
                                of these Reports.]
                            Mr. HAMILTON moved to postpone the resolution till the 7th of
                                January, 1860.
                            On motion by Mr. COBB, this motion was laid on the table.
                            Mr. GOODING desired a vote at once, and without any polly-foxing.
                            Mr. WALLACE proceeded to urge the adoption of his resolution in a
                                speech of an hour, during which he took occasion to animadvert upon
                                the published remarks of the Hon. James Huges, delivered at a public
                                meeting in the Hall of House of Representatives on the 24th of
                                November last.
                             [A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of
                                the bill (H. R. 67) supplementary 
                        
                        
                    
                    
                
                
                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER.
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 4, 1859.
                        No. 8.
                    
                    
                        
                            plementary to an act prescribing who may make a will? what may be
                                devised, &c. ]
                            Mr. HEFFREN offered a substitute for the resolution [the joint
                                resolution on this subject introduced by him during the extra
                                session and laid on the table.]
                            Mr. GOODING moved to by the substitute on the table.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 17, nays 18.
                            On a motion to lay the original resolution on the table, the yeas and
                                nays were demanded, and being ordered and taken, resulted - yeas 25,
                                nays 15 - as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEASMessrs. Beeson, Bennett, Blair,
                                            Bobbs, Brown, Carnahan, Conner, Craven, Cuver, Fisk,
                                            Green, Hargrove, Heffren, Hendry, Hill, Kinley, Line,
                                            Lomax, McClure, March, Slack, Steele, Stevens,
                                            Tarkington and Thompson - 23. 
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Cobb, Gooding,
                                            Hamilton, Jennings, Johnston, Jones, Miller, Murray,
                                            Odell, Robinson, Shoemaker, Studabaker, Wallace, Weir
                                            and Wilson - 13.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. BLAIR, when his name was called, said there were some things in
                                the resolution which he approved, but for,the purpose of getting at
                                the legitimate business before us, he would vote "aye."
                            Mr. CARNAHAN explained. The condition of the State of Indiana was
                                more important to him than that of Kansas, and that we may get clear
                                of this question, he would vote "aye."
                            Mr. HEFFREN (in explanation) was opposed to the resolution simply
                                from the fact that it repudiates the provision in the English bill
                                which requires that, Kansas shall have 93,430 inhabitants before it
                                can be admitted into the Union. He would not vote for the taking in
                                of any State until it shall have a sufficient population to entitle
                                it to a Representative in Congress.
                            Mr. MILLER, explained he had not examined the resolution, and should
                                vote "no," because he was not sufficiency informed to vote
                                otherwise.
                            Mr. SLACK, (in explanation) said: With many of the sentiments in the
                                resolution, in the abstract, he concurred; but believing, as he did,
                                that they were introduced here for buncombe, that speeches on it
                                were intended for buncombe, that the whole thing was for buncombe,
                                and that we have business that might be more profitably attended to
                                than this, he should vote for laying the resolution on the
                                table.
                            Mr. STEELE explained. The Senator who last spoke made his speech
                                precisely and tittered his sentimtents - he therefore voted as that
                                Senator did. He voted "aye."
                            Mr. WEIR, (in explanation.) The resolution did not go hardly as far
                                as he would like to have it; but as far as it did go he believed it
                                expressed the doctrines of the Republican party, and for that reason
                                he should vote against laying them on the table.
                            So the resolution was laid on the table.
                            The amendment was also laid on the table.

                        
                        
                             LICENSE LAW. 
                            The PRESIDENT pro tempore now announced the
                                consideration of Mr. Slack's amendment to the amendment of the
                                select committee to Mr Fisk's temperance bill (S. 10) pending at the
                                time of the recess, viz: to strikeout all of the bill that requires
                                the payment of money to procure license.
                            Mr. MURRAY was in favor of a thorough temperance law, and should so
                                vote as long as he lived. He had always voted for sound temperance
                                laws, whenever he had the opportunity; and wanted no better
                                monumental inscription over his grave than that in 1855 he voted for
                                the prohibitory liquor law.
                            Mr. LINE for the purpose of having a test vote as to whether the
                                Senate is in favor of a license law or not, moved to lay the
                                amendment to the amendment on the table.
                            On this motion the yeas and nays were demanded, and being ordered and
                                taken, resulted yeas 26, nays 18as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Craven,
                                            Culver, Fisk, Gooding, Green, Hamilton, Hargrove,
                                            Jennings, Jones, Kinley, Line, McLcan, Miller, Murray,
                                            OdeII, Rice, Robinson, Studebaker, Tarkington, Turner,
                                            Wallace, Weir, Williams and Wilson- 26.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Beeson, Bennett, Blair,
                                            Brown, Conner, Heffren, Hendry, Hill, Johnston, Lomax,
                                            McClure, March, Shoemaker, Slack, Steele, Stevens,
                                            Thompson and Wagner - 18. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. BEESON, when his name was called, said: He was opposed to the
                                principle of license by the Legislature, but if he could get nothing
                                better he might vote for a license law.
                            Mr. BENNETT (in explanation) was opposed to a license law, but if we
                                have one he believed a man should pay well for it.
                            Mr. COBB (in explanation) was opposed to the license system, and
                                would much prefer a law without that provision, but as he was under
                                the impression that we can not pass a law unless it has a provision
                                in it authorizing the issuing of licenses, he should vote to lay the
                                amendment to the amendment on the table.
                            Mr. CRAVEN (in explanation) was against license or no license, but if
                                the question was between free license and pay license he would favor
                                pay license.
                            Mr. CULVER (in explanation) was in favor of a stringent liquor law,
                                and if we can not get a
                                prohibitory liquor law, he was willing to take the next best thing
                                and vote for the pay license system.
                            Mr. GOODING (in explanation) had no scruples in voting for any good
                                law license or no license, pay or no pay. He was in favor of the
                                best thing he could get, and was not going to "strain at gnats and
                                swallow camels," upon this question, neither. He should keep on
                                voting for temperance bills until we pass one. If we adopt a license
                                system he would prefer putting the tax high, say from $100 to
                                $1,000. But unless the members of this Legislature were willing to
                                concede a little, he predicted we would adjourn and go home and
                                intemperance would run riot yet two years longer. He wanted to
                                cripple, if he could not kill this thing. The vote which he would
                                now give would be no test of what he would vote for hereafter.
                            Mr. HEFFREN (in explanation) would vote for no bill that contains a
                                provision to make a man pay for a license. He thought that, instead
                                of selling out licenses we had better go to work and pass laws
                                preventing the sale of these poisonous compounds and drugs. If we
                                had good, cure liquors, and those only, there would not be half so
                                many snakes in men's boots.
                            Mr. McLEAN, in explanation, would vote for no law that had
                                incorporated in it a pay license provision - (he cared not how high
                                that license may be, even were it high enough to amount to a partial
                                prohibition(unless he voted for it as a dernier resort. He was
                                satisfied the people demanded a license law.
                            Mr. MARCH, in explanation, was opposed to the whole system of
                                licenses, especially pay licenses. If the sale of intoxicating
                                liquors is entitled to the same protection of any other pursuit, we
                                have no right to impose a tax upon one business which we don't upon
                                another. A license law protects the liquor seller against the force
                                of pubic opinion.
                            Mr. MILLER, in explanation, would vote for any good temperance bill,
                                with or without license
                            Mr. SLACK, in explanation, believed if liquor selling be a legitimate
                                business, that we had no right to impose restrictions upon it which
                                we do not impose upon any other business. If it is not a legitimate
                                business, and only evil results flow from it, we should abolish it
                                altogether.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER, in explanation, said the vote he should give would be
                                no index of the votes he should give hereafter. He desired to see a
                                temperance law passed, and should vote for any law he believed to be
                                constitutional that his vote would secure.
                            Mr. TURNER, in explanation, said he should not make this a test
                                question. He was opposed to the whole license system, and could not,
                                under any considerations, vote to license the traffic in ardent
                                spirits. He looked upon it as an unjust, disreputable and unhallowed
                                traffic, and could not vote to make the State a partner in that
                                nefarious traffic. If we are to have a license law, he was disposed
                                to have a pay license system, not that he believed the public
                                Treasury would be benefitted thereby, for he believed it would be a
                                curse to participate in the traffic, but because it would operate as
                                a check upon individuals engaging in it.
                            Mr. WEIR, in explanation, was opposed to any pay for license, but if
                                we are compelled to have a license law, he thought it should be as
                                low as possible. He did not consider this as a test vote, and should
                                vote hereafter whichever way he thought best.
                            So the amendment to the amendment lies on the table.
                            The question recurring upon the amendments proposed by the committee,
                                viz: to make the license not less than $25 nor more than $250 - 
                            On motion by Mr. COBB, "$25" was stricken out of the amendment and
                                "$50" inserted in lieu thereof.
                            Mr. KINLEY moved to amend by striking out all that part of the bill
                                relating to license.
                            On motion by Mr. WEIR, this proposition to amend was laid on the
                                table by yeas 23, nays 20.
                            Mr. GREEN moved to amend by striking out "$250" and inserting
                                $1,000.
                            This motion was laid on the table by yeas 23, nays 22.
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed to amend the 7th section as follows:
                            " Every person who shall be found intoxicated and making a
                                disturbance, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on
                                conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not less than two
                                dollars nor more than ten dollars."
                            The amendment was adopted.
                            Mr. BEESON moved to strike out from tin enacting clause and insert a
                                new bill.
                            On motion by Mr. WALLACE, the substitute was laid on the table by
                                yeas 25, nays 18.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS proposed an amendment, compelling the person to
                                designate the place where the liquor is to be sold. Pending whichThe
                                Senate adjourned. 

                        


                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             TUESDAY, February 1, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            On the motion of Mr. EDWARDS, the previous orders were dispensed with
                                for the introduction of new propositions.
                            By Mr. DAVIS: (173) to amend section 11 of the act incorporating
                                mining and manufacturing companies, and companies for mechanical,
                                chemical and building purposes.
                            By Mr. EDWARDS: (174) to authorize a census of the white male
                                inhabitants over 21 years of age in this State for the year 1859; to
                                prescribe the powers, duties, compensation, &c., of the officers
                                taking the same.
                            By Mr. MELLETT: (175) to amend section 11 of the act establishing the
                                Common Pleas Court, approved May 14, 1852, so as to extend its
                                jurisdiction in certain cases.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD: (176) to amend section 19 of chapter 1, of the
                                practice act of June 18,1852.
                            By Mr. TURPIE: (177) to amend section 2 of the act for the
                                re-location of county seats, (determining the number of votes to
                                constitute an replication for such re-location.)
                            By Mr. SHULL: (178) to fix the time of holding Common Pleas Court in
                                Blackford county.
                            
                            By Mr. HAMILTON, of BOONE: (179) to regulate the sale and giving away
                                of intoxicating liquors, defining nuisances, and fixing punishment
                                for maintaining them.
                            By Mr. MURRAY: (180) to relieve Joel Ellis, by paying him for
                                improvements made upon certain lands illegally sold for taxes, and
                                directing the same to be paid out of the State Treasury.
                            By Mr. SHOCKLEY: (181) to regulate the sale of intoxicating liquors,
                                and the evils arising therefrom.
                            By Mr. CLEMENTS: (182) to amend the 23d section of the assessment act
                                of June 21 1852.
                            By Mr. HUNTER: (183) to authorize county Auditors to collect moneys
                                belonging to the Common School Fund, to provide compensation for
                                such services, and punishment for failure ol duty therein.
                            By Mr. PROSSER: (184) providing for the compensation of County
                                Assessors.
                            By Mr. PARKS: (185) to amend section 4 of the act regulating the fees
                                of clerks in Probate cases, &c., approved March 2, 1855, and
                                repealing all laws conflicting with this act.
                            By Mr. MELLETT: (186) to amend the sec. 103 of the Criminal Practice
                                Act of June 17, 1852 (regulating: proceedings on trials.)
                            By Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren: (187) to amend the act of February 28,
                                1855, amendatory of the act to authorize the construction of plank,
                                McAdamized and graveled roads; to empower such road companies to
                                sell; and, also, to reduce tolls, &c.
                            By Mr. SMITH, of Perry: (188) supplemental to the act to authorize
                                and regulate the business of general banking, passed March 3, 1855,
                                providing for additional security, and a surrender of stocks or
                                bonds deposited under said act.
                            By Mr. HUNTER: (189) supplemental to the act to establish a Court ot
                                Common Pleas, approved May 14.1852.
                            By Mr. HUNTER: (190) to amend the sections 11 and 12 of the act to
                                establish a Court of Common Pleas, approved May 14, 1852.
                            [A Senate message announced the passage in that body of the House
                                bill prescribing who may make a will, &c., without amendment,
                                and the Passage of Senate bills ]
                            By Mr. HUNTER: (191) to authorize jurors to be summoned from
                                adjoining counties to try criminal cases in certain cases, providing
                                for their compensation, &c.
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading. 
                        
                        
                            FINAL READING OF HOUSE BILLS.
                            The SPEAKER announced the order of bills of the House on the final
                                reading.
                            Mr. Early's bill (23) to legalize the acts of L. B. Osborn, a justice
                                of the peace, coming up - 
                            Mr. EARLY explained its provisions, and the emergency, and the bill
                                passed, by yeas 73, nays 0.
                            Mr. Jeffrie's bill (27) to authorize road companies to consolidate
                                their stock, to assume a common name, &c, was passed the third
                                and last reading in the House of Representatives, by yeas 73, nays
                                3.
                            Mr. Blythe's bill (28) legalizing depositions, to perpetuate
                                testimony taken prior to the effect of the Statutes of 1852,
                                &c., was passed the third reading, by yeas 71, nays 4. 
                        
                        
                            COURTS OF CONCILIATION.
                             Mr. Power's bill (30) to repeal the act to establish Courts of
                                Conciliation, coming up - 
                            Mr. POWER and Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, regarded the act proposed to be
                                repealed as a nullity and impracticable.
                            Mr. PROSSER regarded it as a wise provision of law, favorable to
                                partiesand if objectionable, only so to lawyers.
                            Mr. SCOTT. It was a dead letter on the Statute Book, and the voice
                                was unanimous in his region for its repeal.
                            Mr. CAVINS alleged that he had observed the well working of the act.
                                It was to keep slander cases and cases of assault out of court - to
                                delay and compose these cases outside He explained its operation.
                                Though cases were rarely compromised in the Courts of Conciliation,
                                yet this requirement of law induced delay and cosideration in angry
                                litigants.
                            Mr. TURPIE. This was from the French code. He considered that the
                                delay induced gave too much time to the defendant to "evade the
                                penalty of the law. He regarded the law as useless and
                                impracticable.
                            Mr. MELLETT also regarded this statute as impracticable, and stated
                                his experience under it. In all these cases parties employed counsel
                                before they proceeded in any of these cases, and its repeal or
                                retention could not effect the profession of the law.
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD had never known a conciliation effected in any of
                                these courts, nor any good resulting from the law. No man who had
                                seen its operation could desire its continuance.
                            Mr. MURRAY cited a slander case in his county, in which this court
                                was resorted to with a good result. He had not heard it alleged as
                                injurious to parties, and he hoped it would not be repealed.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone. This was not the arbitration or umpirage law.
                                On the very next page of the statutes, it was enacted, that all
                                cases as well as those five in courts of conciliation, may be
                                compromised. These trials in conciliation were without evidence, and
                                no trial could be had but upon the facts. But the law now compels
                                parties to go through this Court, and so become liable for costs on
                                both sides. He knew of no party who had gone through this Court and
                                remained satisfied with the proceedings therein.
                            Mr. POWER submitted his experience in connection with this Court, and
                                repeated that he regarded it as the greatest humbug amongst all our
                                jumbled Statutes.
                            The vote on the final passage of the bill resulted - yeas 38, nays 41
                                - as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Baird, Blythe,
                                            Branham, Clements, Dobbins, Duvall, Early, Eastham,
                                            Edwards, Griffin, Hamilton of Boone, Hamilton of Wayne,
                                            Harrison, Hunter, Jeffries, Jordan, Kempf, Lewis,
                                            Mansfield, Mellett, Merrifield, Miller, Newton, Parks,
                                            Power, Scott, Sherman, Shockley, Smith of Miami, Smith
                                            of Perry, Stanfield, Stiles, Turpie, Whetzel, Whiteman,
                                            and Mr. Speaker - 38. 
                                        NAYS - Messrs Bowman, Boyd, Boxley,
                                            Brotherton, Carr, Cavins, Clark, Claypool, Clayton,
                                            Collier, Cotton, Davidson,  Dougherty, Durham,
                                            Firestone, Fordyce, Gifford, Gregory Hancock, Hartley,
                                            Jones, Keefer, Kelly, Major, Massey, Murray, Martin,
                                            Nebeker of Warren, Nelson, Prosser, Ritter, Robinson,
                                            Row, Rynerson, Shields, Shull, Sullivan, Thompson of
                                            Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Treadway, Wheeler and Wood
                                            - 41. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the bill was rejected.
                        
                        
                             EMPANNELING PETIT JURORS. 
                            Mr. Blythe's bill (34) prescribing the manner of empanneling petit
                                juiors, coming up - 
                            Mr. BLYTHE said the law left now too much discretion in the hands of
                                the Sheriff. Under this bill 100 names are selected by the officers
                                named and put into the box, from which are drawn a pannel of 24, and
                                from these names again in the box the Sheriff must make up the jury.
                                These 24 constitute the pannel, as the twelve do now - and they
                                receive pay as now.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY could hardly support the bill with the provision to pay
                                a pannel of twenty-four.
                             Mr. BLYTHE. This was the cheapest. It very rarely happened that all
                                the pannel appear. In criminal cases many are challenged. He
                                ventured that in such cases the present mode was three times as
                                expensive as that proposed. He gave reasons. But even if it were
                                more expensive the good proposed was hardly to be placed in the
                                comparison, &c.
                            Mr. POWER. If it were to discourage professional jurors, he was in
                                favor of it.
                             Mr. PROSSER objected to the bill, as involving additional expense,
                                without dispensing with talismen. It were better to elect honest
                                Sheriffs. He object further.
                            Mr. GIFFORD. The bill would not suit his constituents. Frequently
                                they wanted no jury.
                             Mr. MELLETT. This was a case of the people against professional
                                jurorsto purify the jury box. So much depended upon the jury -
                                giving life and administration to the laws - that he would not
                                hesitate at the expense to have justice administered honestly and
                                impartially. Every dollar expended in this direction was expended
                                well.
                            Mr. MURRAY could not see that the sheriffs were compelled to select
                                jurors from those hanging around the Courthouse for that purpose.
                                Sometimes not even the twelve jurors were required.
                            Mr. BLYTHE asked for the reading of the 7th section, providing that,
                                after three days the jurors may be discharged, &c.
                            Mr. MURRAY. The expense of jurors was too great a tax on the judicial
                                system. The objection of Mr. Prosser, that the bill would double
                                this, had not been answered.
                            Mr. PROSSER replied to Mr. Mellett.
                            Mr. GIFFORD spoke again. The present expense of the jury system was
                                matter of just complaint, and he could not support a bill to double
                                it.
                            Mr. BOYD demanded the previous question, and under its force the bill
                                was rejected, by yeas 25, nays 54 - as follows 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs Baird, Blythe, Boyd,
                                            Branham. Claypool, Edwards, Gregory Griffin, Jeffries,
                                            Jones, Kempf, Mansfield, Mellett, Merrifield, Miller,
                                            Nelson, Newton, Power, Scott, Sherman, Smith of Perry,
                                            Stanfield, Stiles, Whiteman and Mr. Speaker-25. 
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Bowmnn, Boxley,
                                            Brotherton, Carr, Cavins, Clark, Clayton, Clements,
                                            Collier, Cotton, Davidson, Dobbins, Dougherty, Durham,
                                            Davis, Early, Eastham, Firestone, Fordyce, Gifford,
                                            Hamilton of Boone,Hamilton of Wayne, Hancock, Harrison.
                                            Hartley, Hunter, Jordon, Keefer, Kelly, Lewis, Major,
                                            Massey, Murray, Martin, Nebeker of Warren, Parks,
                                            Prosser, Ritter, Robinson, Row, Rynerson, Shields,
                                            Shockley, Shull. Smith of Miami, Sullivan, Thompson of
                                            Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Treadway, Turpie,
                                            Wheeler,Whetzel and Wood - 54. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the bill was lost.
                            Mr. Harrison, of Wayne's bill (43) to amend section 6 of the County
                                Board act of June 17, 1852, coming up - 
                            Mr. GRIFFIN proposed to insert "may," instead of "shall," with
                                reference to holding the County Commissioners' Court in the
                                Auditor's office, in court time, which was adopted by unanimous
                                consent.
                            And so the bill passed the first reading, by yeas 69, nays 5. 

                        
                        
                            HORSE THIEF DETECTING COMPANIES.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House the memorial of the President of
                                the Lawrence Township Horse Thief Detecting- Company, against the
                                repeal of the act authorizing such companies, which was read and
                                referred to the committee to which that part of the Governor's
                                Message was referred.
                            Also, a communication from the Hon. Wm. E. Niblack, relative to
                                Indiana Indian bonds in the hands of the General Government, which
                                was referred to the Committee on Ways and
                                Means.
                            Also, a communication from the Superintendent of the Blind Asylum, in
                                reference to blindness resulting from the intermarriage of blood
                                relationships.
                            Mr. FIRESTONE moved an order to print 300 copies.
                            Mr. KEMPF had introduced the resolution to which this was a response,
                                looking to the introduction of a bill upon the subject, and he
                                favored the motion.
                            The order was rejected, and then the report was referred to the
                                    Committee on Benevolent Institutions.
                            Mr. GIFFORD presented a letter from the Hon. James B. Foley, a
                                Representative in Congress for the 4th Congressional District, with
                                reference to Indiana State bonds, connected with Indian claims, in
                                the hands of the General Government, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means.
                            
                        
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION. 
                            Mr. Harrison's bill (59) to extend time to borrowers of the trust
                                funds, paying interest thereon in advance promptly, coming up - 
                            Mr. HUNTER, suggested a shorter time than six years, from January,
                                1859. It would conflict with Mr. Colgrove's bill, which proposed to
                                call in the old fund on the 1st of January, 1850, and on his motion
                                "six" was stricken out and the word "four" inserted in its
                                place.
                            The bill failed - yeas 36, nays 30 - for want of a constitutional
                                majority, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Blythe, Boxley,
                                            Brotherton, Cavins, Clark, Claypool. Colgrove, Comstock,
                                            Dougherty, Eastham, Fordyce, Gifford, Griffin, Hamilton
                                            of Boone, Harney, Harrison, Hurter, Kempf, McLain,
                                            Massey, Murray, Martin, Nebeker of Warren, Parks,
                                            Prosser, Ritter, Robinson, Row, Rynerson. Scott,
                                            Sherman, Shields, Shockley, Stanfield, Turpie, Wheeler,
                                            Whiteman, Wildman and Mr. Speaker - 36.
                                        
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Bowman, Branham, Carr,
                                            Clayton, Clements, Dobbins, Durham, Duvoll, Edwards,
                                            Firestone, Gregory, Hartley, Jones, Jordan, Knowlton,
                                            Lawhead, Lewis, Mansfield, Mellett, Merrifield, Miller,
                                            Nelson, Shull, Smith of Miami, Smith of Perry, Stiles,
                                            Sullivan, Thompson of Elkhart, Whetzel, and Wood - 30.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. HALL, of Grant's, bill (60) for the relief of Samuel L. Woolman,
                                of Grant county, was passed the final reading by yeas 54, nays
                                23.

                            
                                A LICENSE LIQUOR LAW.
                                Mr. Merrifield's bill (29 as amended by the select committee and
                                        Committee of the Whole) to license,
                                    regulate and restrain the sale of spirituous, vinous, malt and
                                    intoxicating liquors, coming up - 
                                Mr. TURPIE moved to reconsider the vote on the engrossment of the
                                    bill. He wished to make the maximum and minimum rates of license
                                    conform to the sums of $500 and $20, reported by the select
                                    committee. These rates had been changed to $1,000 and $50 in
                                        Committee of the Whole, of which there
                                    was no record. He wished to go upon the record on the rate of
                                    minimum license. He spoke at length, and defined his position to
                                    the whole question, and declared the philosophy and necessity of
                                    the principle of a license liquor law.
                                Mr. MELLETT spoke in reply, qualifying and shaping his argument
                                    against reconsideration expecting to vote for this bill as it
                                    is, though confessing that he occupied generally the extreme
                                    ground of those opposed to the principle of a license liquor
                                    law.
                                Mr. DOUGHERTY should vote to reconsider, because he desired to
                                    modify the prohibition of sale to any person in the habit of
                                    intoxication, and if reconsidered, he should move to amend that
                                    section, so as to read to this effect: "Every person who shall
                                    by himself or agent, directly or indirectly, knowingly sell,
                                    barter or give away any spirituous or intoxicating liquor to any
                                    person who is in the habit of being intoxicated, after notice
                                    shall have been given him by the wife, child, parent or brother,
                                    of the said person, or by the overseer of the poor, in the
                                    township where he resides, that such person is in the habit of
                                    being intoxicated, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
                                    upon conviction thereof be fined not less than $5, nor more than
                                    $50.
                                Mr. STILES moved to lay Mr. Turpie's motion to reconsider on the
                                    table, demanding the yeas and nays, which resulted - yeas 38,
                                    nays 47.So the House refused to lay on the table.
                                Mr. HARNEY. It was a matter of little consequence to him what was
                                    his record herethe main consideration being whether the act and
                                    'nteition were right. The measure of merit in a kill was its
                                    adaptation to circumstances, not its apprximation to perfection.
                                    He considered fte original bill of Mr. Mansfield, the best. Were
                                    not these amendments akin to those abstractionswhich had
                                    heretofore defeated our temperance legislation? He was willing
                                    to take the best we could get, and unwilling to see the defeat
                                    of any good temperance bill, &c.
                                Mr. GIFFORD could not support the bill, with the amendments that
                                    were attached in Committee of the Whole. He
                                    was in favor of the bill as it came from the committee of
                                    nine.
                                Mr. PROSSER coincided with Mr. Gifford.
                                Mr. POWER would rather have no license law than the bill as it
                                    came from the committee, and he repeated how the profits on one
                                    barrel of whiskey would more than pay the $20 license to sell
                                    for a year. He spoke at length in defence of his amendment,
                                    raising it to $50. He should vote for the bill, if he could get
                                    nothing better.
                                Mr. HANCOCK could not support the bill, with $50 for the minimum
                                    rate of license. He represented two counties, and outside of the
                                    two county seats there would be no license taken out at $50. He
                                    demanded a reduction of this rate as the right of his
                                    constituents. He objected not to the maximum rate.
                                 Mr. KEEFER demanded the previous question, and under its force,
                                    the order of engrossment was reconsidered - yeas 46, nays
                                    38.
                                Mr DOUGHERTY now proposed his substitute to the 8th section,
                                    demanding the yeas and nays thereon.
                                The vote resultedyeas 61, nays 25. So the amendment was
                                    adopted.
                                Mr. TURPIE now proposed $20 for the minimum rate of license.
                                Mr. PROSSER proposed to amend by adding $1,000 for the maximum,
                                    which he withdrew.
                                Mr. AUSTIN moved to lay the amendment on the table - the vote
                                    resulting-yeas 38, nays 48.
                                Mr. MURRAY proposed to amend by striking out $20 and inserting
                                    $30. We were in danger of losing the bill between those who
                                    desire a low rate, and those who would have no license law at
                                    all.
                                Mr. GIFFORD. The friends of the bill understood themselves and he
                                    rehearsed some of the provisions and restrictions of the bill.
                                    $20 in the rural districts was more than $500 in the town of
                                    Indianapolis, and he wanted equality in this, as near as may
                                    be.
                                 Mr. MURRAY withdrew his amendment.
                                The vote on Mr. Turpie's amendment resulted - yeas 46, nays 38 -
                                    as follows: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Blair, Blythe,
                                                Bowman, Boyd, Carr, Claypool, Clayton, Clements,
                                                Dobbins, Dougherty. Durham, Early, Firestone,
                                                Fordyce, Gifford, Hancock, Harney, Hartley, Jordan,
                                                Keefer, Kelly, Kempf, Knowlton, Lewis, Major,
                                                Mansfield, Mellett, Merrifield, Miller, Murray,
                                                Newton, Prosser, Row, Shields, Shockley, Shull,
                                                Smith of Miami, Smith of Percy, Stanfieid, Stiles,
                                                Sullivan, Thompson of Madison, Turpie, Wheeler,
                                                Whetzel and Mr. Speaker-46. 
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Boxley,
                                                Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark, Collier,
                                                Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Duvoll, Gregory,
                                                Griffin, Hall of Rush, Hamilton of Boone, Hamilton
                                                of Wayne, Harrison, Hunter, Jeffries, Jones,
                                                Lawhead, McLain, Massey, Martin, Nebeker of Warren,
                                                Nelson, Parks, Power, Ritter, Robinson, Rynerson,
                                                Scott, Sherman, Thompson of Elkhart, Treadway,
                                                Whiteman, Wildman and Wood-38. 
                                        
                                    
                                
                                So the minimum rate was reduced to $20.
                                Mr. DOUGHERTY proposed further to amend the bill by adding:
                                SEC. . Nothing in this act shall be so
                                    construed as to require a license to sell unadulterated lager
                                    beer in less quanities than a gallon.
                                Mr. MANSFIELD. The same difficulties were to be avoided in the
                                    case of lager beer saloons as in other cases of the traffic.
                                The amendment was rejected.
                                Mr. KEEFER proposed to reduce the maximum rate of license from
                                    $1,000 to $500, demanding the yeas and nays, which resulted -
                                    yeas 26, nays 57 so the amendment was lost.
                                
                                Mr. STANFIELD demanded the previous question, and under its force
                                    the bill was ordered to engrossment, and considered as
                                    engrossed.
                                Mr. HUNTER moved to recommit the bill, with instructions, which
                                    he sent up.
                                The SPEAKER decided that it was out of order to withdraw matter
                                    from the files of the Committee of the Whole,
                                    and submit it by way of instructions to amend.
                                Mr. EDWARDS demanded the previous question on the final passage
                                    of the bill, and there was a second.
                                The bill was now again read through by the Clerk, and the vote
                                    the reonsulted - yeas 59, nays 22 - as follows: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Baird, Blythe,
                                                Boyd, Boxley, Branham, Brotherton, Carr, Cavins,
                                                Clark, Clayton, Clements, Comstock, Dougherty,
                                                Duvoll, Early, Edwards, Fordyce, Gifford,
                                                Gregory,Griffin, Hall of Rush, Harney, Harrison,
                                                Hartley, Jones, Keefer, Kelly, Kempf, Knowlton,
                                                Lawhead, McLain, Major, Mansfield, Massey, Mellett,
                                                Merrifield, Murray, Martin, Nelson, Newton, Parks,
                                                Prosser, Row, Scott, Sherman, Shields, Shull, Smith
                                                of Miami, Smith of Perry, Stanfield, Stiles,
                                                Sullivan, Thompson of Madison, Turpie, Wheeler,
                                                Whetzel, Wildman,Wood, and Mr. Speaker - 59. 
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Bowman,
                                                Colgrove, Collier, Cotton, Dobbins, Firestone,
                                                Hamilton of B., Hamilton of W., Hunter,Jeffries,
                                                Lewis, Miller, Nebeker of Warren,Power, Ritter,
                                                Robinson, Rynerson, Shockley, Thompson of Elkhart,
                                                Treadway and Whiteman - 22. 
                                        
                                    
                                
                                So the bill passed, with the title amended by Mr. DOUGHERTY,
                                    adding these words: "Prescribing penalties for the violation of
                                    this act," and it was ordered that the Clerk acquaint the Senate
                                    thereof.
                                The House then (at 5 o'clock) adjourned. 
                            
                        
                    
                    


                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, February 2, 1859. 
                        
                        
                             PETITIONS, MEMORIALS AND REMONSTRANCES. 
                            Mr. HILL presented a petition from sundry citizens of Hancock county,
                                praying for the legalizing of ten per cent, interest; which was
                                referred to the Committee on Finance.
                            Mr. BOBBS presented two petitions from sundry citizens of Marion and
                                Hamilton counties, praying for the enactment of a stringent
                                temperance law; which were referred to the Committee on
                                    Temperance.
                            Mr. BROWN presented a petition from Messrs. Platt and Daniel
                                McDonald, printers and publishers of the Marshall
                                    County Democrat, praying against the reduction of the
                                prices now paid for the public printing; which was read and referred
                                to the Committee on Printing. 
                        
                        
                             REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES. 
                            The Judiciary Committee returned the bills of
                                Senators Wallace (119), Bennett (129), Cooper (110) and Bennett
                                (120), recommending passage. The reports were concurred in, the
                                bills severally read by title the second time, and ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            The same committee returned Senator Fisk's bill (111), recommending
                                indefinite postponement. The report was concurred in.
                            TheCommittee oa Education returned Senator Fisk's
                                bill (80), recommending indefinite postponement. The report was
                                concurred in,
                            The Committee on Corporations returned Senator
                                Hamilton's bill (18), with an amendment, recommending its passage.
                                The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            A majority of the same committee returned Senator Craven's bill (45),
                                with amendments, one of which makes the killing of animals by
                                railroad companies prima facie evidence of
                                neglect.
                            A minority of the committee objected to this amendment, and
                                recommended its rejection.
                            Mr. CULVER favored the recommendation of the minority of the
                                committee.
                            Mr. COBB was in favor of the adoption of the report of the majority.
                                It seemed to be reasonable upon the ground of evidence. It was a
                                hard matter for a man to prove that his stock was killed by a
                                railroad company through carelessness; for the simple reason that
                                there were seldom any witnesses to the transaction except the
                                employees of the company. He thought a stringent law on this subject
                                would act as a great security to the lives of passengers, for the
                                reason that if the companies are not made responsible for stock
                                killed by them, they would naturally be more careless.
                            Mr. BOBBS hoped the majority report would prevail.
                            Mr. CRAVEN spoke in favor of the minority report.
                            Mr. RICE was in favor of the passage of the bill, and entered his
                                dissent from the objections made by parties opposed to the bill.
                            Mr. WEIR was uncompromisingly opposed to the amendment, and thought
                                we had no right to require any more from corporations than
                                individuals.
                            Mr. MURRAY knew that the law we have had, has in a great many
                                instances superinduced carelessness on the part of owners of stock;
                                indeed he knew of instances where they had absolutely driven their
                                animals on the track, to be killed by a railroad company. He moved
                                to recommit the bill with instructions to amend by inserting the
                                following:
                            SECTION 3. Whenever any stock or other property
                                shall be killed or injured by the cars, locomotives or other
                                machinery of any Railroad Company, at the crossing of any street,
                                alley, or highway, where the same can not be fenced, the said
                                company shall be liable for two-thirds of the value of such property
                                killed, or the injury done, but if on suits brought to recover the
                                value of such stock killed or property injured, it shall be made to
                                appear that the injury resulted from the carelessness or neglect of
                                the Railroad Company, or its agents, then the plaintiff shall
                                recover the full value of such stock killed or property injured.
                            Mr. CONNER was opposed to the amendment proposed.
                            Mr. CULVER favored the motion to recommit.
                            Mr. WEIR was more opposed to the amendment than to the report of the
                                committee, because it proposes to make railroad companies liable,
                                negligence or no negligence.
                            Mr. MURRAY withdrew his motion to recommit with instructions.
                            The question being on the amendment of the committee, striking out
                                the language which would make railroad companies liable for stock
                                killed, or injury, whether through negligence or otherwise - 
                            The amendment was adopted - yeas 24, nays 19. 
                            Mr. JOHNSTON, by leave, offered the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on the Judiciary be instructed to inquire
                                            into the legality and expediency of the passage of a law
                                            authorizing county auditors to sell mortgaged lands for
                                            the non-payment of principal and interest of any of the
                                            school funds, without first having to obtain a payment
                                            by foreclosure; and report by bill or otherwise. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. MURRAY then offered the section which he submitted as
                                instructions a few minutes ago, as an amendment to the 3d section of
                                the bill.
                            Mr. RICE made an ineffectual motion to lay the amendment on-the
                                table.
                            The amendment was then adopted, by yeas 25, nays 16.
                            Mr. WEIR made an ineffectual motion to strike out "two-thirds," and
                                insert "six-thirds."
                            The amendment of the committee as amended was then adopted; and the
                                bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            The Committee on Corporations returned Senator
                                Culver's bill (37) recommending that it lay on the table. The report
                                was concurred in.
                            Mr. STEELE, from the same committe made the following report:
                            MR. PRESIDENT: The Committee on
                                    Corporations, to whom was referred the petition of
                                numerous citizens of the County of Tippecanoe, asking this General
                                Assembly to pass a law compelling railroad companies to pay for
                                animals killed by the cars, locomotives or carriages of such
                                companies, on highways and commons, where railroads cannot be
                                fenced, have had the same under consideration and have directed me
                                to report, that in the opinion of said committee, Senate bill No.
                                45, now pending before the Senate, contains a sufficient provision
                                upon the subject.
                            The Committee on Banks returned Senator
                                Tarkington's bill (28) recommending its passage. The report was
                                concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            The Committee on Agriculture returned Senator
                                Line's bill (121) recommending its passage. The report was concurred
                                in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            The Committee on County and Township Business
                                returned the bill (H. R. 11) to amend sec. 21 of an act providing
                                for the organization of County Boards, and prescribing some of their
                                powers and duties, recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in and the bill read the second time by
                                title.
                            On motion by Mr. BLAIR, the bill was read the third time and finally
                                passed, by yeas 35, nays 7.
                            And then the Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. BEESON, by leave, introduced a bill (No. 144) for extending the
                                time of holding courts in the 13th Judicial Circuit, which was read
                                the first time.
                            On motion by Mr. CONNER, the rules were suspended yeas 37, nays 0-the
                                bill read the second time by title, and referred to a select
                                committee, which is made to consist of Senators Beeson, Studabaker
                                and Conner.
                            On motion by Mr. WILSON, his bill (102) to amend section 3 of an act
                                to establish Courts of Common Pleas, approved May 14, 1852, was
                                taken up for consideration.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON offered a substitute re-districting for Common Pleas
                                purposes the entire State - reducing the number of courts from 44 to
                                20.
                            On motion by Mr JENNINGS, the substitute was laid on the table.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON made an ineffectual motion to lay the report and bill
                                on the table.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to indefinitely posspone the bill.
                            The motion was lost by yeas 9, nays 43.
                            Various amendments, by way of rider, entirely of a local character,
                                were offered, adopted or rejected, and freely discussed, when - 
                            The bill as amended, was finally passed the Senate by yeas 20, nays
                                13.
                            The Committee on County and Township Business, by
                                direction of a resolution of the Senate, reported a bill (S. 145)
                                abolishing the present mode of doing township business, which lies
                                on the table till reached in regular order of business.
                            Mr. BLAIR, from a select committee, returned Senator Bobb's bill (49)
                                fixing the times of holding courts in the 5th Judicial Circuit,
                                recommending its passage.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the recommitted for perfectment.
                            Mr. BOBBS, from a select committee [?] his bill (112) to amend the
                                city act of March 1857, and provide for the collection of city taxes
                                delinquent after the first Monday of March next, recommending its
                                passage.
                             The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. CULVER, from a select committee, returned Senator Hargrove's bill
                                (81) fixing the compensation of executors and administrators, and
                                repealing section 148 of the Revised Statutes of 1852, recommending
                                its passage. [This bill proposes to allow to administrators 5 per
                                centum for the first $1,000; under $1.000, the Judge may allow what
                                he deems right and just; over $1,000 and up to $5.000, 2 1/2 per
                                cent.; and upon real estate, 2 1/2 for all sums under $1,000.]
                            Mr. WEIR made an indefinite motion to amend so that administrators
                                should have no pay at all.
                            Mr. SLACK made an ineffectual motion to lay the report and bill on
                                the table.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. COOPER, from a select committee, returned a temperance bill (S.
                                13) recommending its passage.
                            On motion by Mr. CONNER, the subject was postponed till Tuesday next
                                at 10 o'clock.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON, by leave, offered the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper be
                                            directed to take the new $10 chairs out of the Senate
                                            Chamber, and replace the old ones, so that Senators will
                                            not be put to the trouble of picking themselves up [from
                                            the floor] to the amusement of the Senate. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. CARNAHAN moved to amend as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS - the chairs furnished to the
                                            Senate by John Ottare not made in a good and substantial
                                            manner, according to contract: Therefore, 
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper be
                                            directed to return said chairs, and inform the maker
                                            that no chairs are wanted by this body. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. SLACK made a motion to lay the resolution and amendment on the
                                table.
                            
                             This motion was lost, by yeas 16, nays 18.
                            Mr. GOODING moved to strike from the amendment the words: "and inform
                                the maker that no chairs are wanted by this body."
                            Mr. WALLACE moved to lay the whole mat ter on the table.
                            Mr. MARCH called for a division of the question.
                            The PRESIDENT pro tem, submitted the question, and,
                                upon announcing the vote, declared the whole matter as laid on the
                                table.
                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        

                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, February 2, 1859. 
                        
                        
                             CALUMET DITCH 
                            Mr. Griffin's bill (70) appropriating $8,000 of the Lake county swamp
                                laud fund to complete the Calumet Ditch, was considered (the order
                                of busines being dispensed with on Mr. Edward's motion for the
                                consideration of bills at this stage) and rejected on the third
                                reading in the House of Representatives, by yeas 35, nays 37.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY moved a reconsideration of this vote, which motion was
                                carried by consent.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN made a statement of the provisions and merits oi this
                                bill, appropriating $8,000 for the construction of the Calument
                                Ditch, and moneys arising from sales of swamp lands belonging to
                                Lake county - embracing the history of the legislation, and the
                                administration under it, for the Calumet Feeder Dam, which against
                                law now overflowed about 114,000 acres of swamp land in Lake county.
                                The object was to drain these lands. It was likely that this fund
                                would be exhausted, by draining contracts and stealing; and it was
                                desirable to appropriate this portion before it should be clutched
                                by the commissioners. No part of it was likely to get into the
                                School Fund.
                            Mr. KEEFER, Mr. PROSSER and others considered that this bill
                                interfered with what belonged to Lake county and her swamp land
                                commissioner.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY and Mr. HUNTER also objected.
                            Mr. BOYD remembered when the people of Lake county wanted no
                                legislation in reference to the Illinois work. But the Legislature
                                legalized it the Illinois dam in 1857, and that had been repealed at
                                the extra session. The people of Lake county now seemed to ask the
                                Legislature to take a responsibility which they were unwilling to
                                take upon themselves under the general law.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, explained, that this bill proposes to
                                counteract the Swamp Land Commissioner's selfishness, by which he is
                                draining his own, to the neglect of other swamp lands in the county,
                                and compel this ditch to be made.
                            Mr. HARNEY gave his knowledge of the case, and the history of the
                                operation of the Illinois company, and of the Lake county Swamp Land
                                Commissioner. The Illinois company were bound to pay the damages of
                                this overflow of these lands. But they had refused to do so; and now
                                the proposition was to bring the Commissioner back to complete the
                                very drainage which was abandoned upon the pledge of the Illinois
                                Company,to pay damages - so carrying out for Lake county the objects
                                of the Swamp Land Law.
                            Mr. DOBBINS should vote for the bill under the explanations of the
                                gentleman from Lake.
                            Mr. PROSSER, also, under these explanations, should vote for the
                                bill.
                            The bill was then passed the House of Representatives, by yeas 61,
                                nays 21, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Baird, Black,
                                            Blythe, Bowman, Boxley, Brotherton, Carr, Cavins, Clark,
                                            Clayton, Colgrove, Collier, Comstock, Cotton, Dobbins,
                                            Duvoll, Edwards, Fordyce, Gifford, Griffin. Hall of
                                            Bush, Hamilton of Boone, Hamilton of Wayne, Hancock,
                                            Harney, Harrison, Hunter, Jeffries, Johnston, Kempf,
                                            Knowlton, Lawhead, McLain, Mansfield, Massey,
                                            Merrifield, Miller, Murray, Martin, Nebeker of
                                            Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Parks, Prosser, Ritter,
                                            Robinson, Rynerson, Scott, Sherman, Shockley, Shull,
                                            Smith of Miami, Smith of Perry, Snyder, Stanfield,
                                            Stiles, Sullivan, Treadway, Wheeler, Whiteman, and Mr.
                                            Speaker - 61. 
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Boyd, Dougherty, Early,
                                            Firestone, Gregory, Hartley, Jones, Jordan, Keefer,
                                            Kelley, Lewis, Major, Nelson, Row, Shields, Thompson of
                                            Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Usrey, Whetzel, Wildman
                                            and Wood-15. 
                                    
                                

                            
                            On motion by Mr. STANFIELD, Mr. Murray, of Elkhart and Lagrange, had
                                leave of absence for the remainder of this week.
                            Mr. Edwards' bill (69) revising the Bridge law, was passed the final
                                reading in the House of Representatives, by yeas 64, nays 12.
                            Mr. Parrett's bill (86) for the relief of Jane Walker, was passed the
                                final reading, by yeas 77, nays 4Mr. Parrett explaining its
                                provisions, &c., and attributing its authorship to Mr. Stinson,
                                at home, sick.
                            Mr. Shull's bill (104) to amend section 7 of the act for the
                                construction of levees and drains, approved June 7,1852, coming up - 
                            Mr. SHULL explained the revisions of the act, (to cure a defect) and
                                the bill passed the final reading, by yeas 61, nays 12. 
                        
                        
                            INTEREST ON MONEY.
                            Mr. Martin's bill (123) concerning interest on money, coming up - 
                            Mr. SULLIVAN moved to refer it to the Committee of the
                                    Whole - which subject is the special order therein for
                                this afternoon - which was taken by consent.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, moved instructions to strike out "eight" and
                                insert "six," with reference to the legal vote of interest proposed,
                                which was also referred. 
                        
                        
                            SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC PRINTING.
                            Mr. RITTER moved to take up his bill (97) to provide for the office
                                of Superintendent of Public Printing, explaining the merit of the
                                bill, and the emergency for its passage - calling upon gentlemen to
                                come up and perfect the bill (which had been drawn up by practical
                                men) without reference to party feeling.
                            Mr. TURPIE had examined the bill, and considered it inexpedient and
                                unwise for the House to go any further with it. He charged that the
                                gentleman's report on the public printing was exparte, unfair and partisan in its character, and without
                                the facts or any just reasoning in the case, resulting in this
                                proposition to create a new office.
                            Mr. RITTER. If the State Printer is not overpaid, why not give him a
                                salary? All the object was to give the Superintendent a stated salary, and require him to let
                                out the work to the lowest bidder. A practical printer, doing busi
                                ness in the town of Indianapolis, had proposed to the present Public
                                Printer to do the State's work, and give him 25 per cent.
                                profit.
                            Mr. HUNTER was opposed to the bill. He preferred to fix the prices of
                                the State's printing, and provide against stringing out and leading
                                the printed matter so as to swindle the State; to re quire the
                                Printer to furnish paper, &c.
                            Mr. RITTER. The bill proposes to abolish the office of Public
                                Printer, and that the Superintendent of Public Printing take his
                                place. It did not really contemplate the creation of a new
                                office.
                            The House refused to take up the bill - yeas 31, nays 41.
                            On motion by Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, his bill (22) to amend the act
                                concerning interest on money, was taken up. He stated that the
                                object of the motion was to concur in the amendment of the
                                committee, simply shortening the bill. The amendment could not go to
                                the Committee of the Whole without the
                                concurrence of the House.
                             The SPEAKER declared the motion out of order.
                        
                        
                             WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. Sherman's bill (168) to amend the act authorizing Railroad and
                                other road Companies to borrow money, was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Mansfield's bill (147) was referred to the same committee.
                            Mr. Whetzel's bill (124) was referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. Hunter's bill (125,) Mr. Park's bill (126,) Mr. Colgrove's bill
                                (127,) Mr. Stile's bill (128,) Mr. Clement's bill (129.) were
                                severally referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            Mr. Murray's bill (180) was referred to the Committee on
                                    Claims.
                            Mr. Blythe's bill (146) was referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges.
                             Mr. Brotherton's bill (131)was referred to the committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Massey's bill (132) was referred to the Committee on
                                    Elections.
                            The Judiciary Committee's [ Mr. Turpie's] bill
                                (133settlement of decedents estates) coming up - 
                            On motion by Mr. TURPIE, it was amended by adding: "all laws and
                                parts of laws contravening provisions of this act are hereby
                                repealed" and so the bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Baird's bill (134) was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Vermilllon, by leave, presented the petition of
                                sundry citizens of Clintion, Vermillion county, asking for a
                                conventional rate of interest as high as ten per cent., which Was
                                referred to the Committee of the Whole.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a letter from the auditor of State,
                                responding to a resolution of the House, of the 19th inst.,
                                transmitting statements of the cost of transporting convicts to the
                                Penitentiary, on either side of the National Road, which was
                                referred to the Committee on the
                                Penitentiary.
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD, by leave, presented the memorial of A. Lytle Jones, a
                                resident of Porter county, submitting his claim for $100, as
                                compensation for services as Assistant Prosecuting Attorney in
                                Laporte county, which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Claims.
                            Mr. LAWHEAD, by leave, submitted th following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                the Judiciary be instructed to inquire
                                            into the expediency of repealing or modifying the laws
                                            in force authorizing railroad companies to take real
                                            estate subscriptions for stock, and to provide some
                                            method whereby farmers and others who have been cheated
                                            or defrauded of their farms, may recover the same back
                                            from such railroad companies, and that they report by
                                            bill or otherwise 
                                    
                                
                            

                            
                                INTEREST ON MONEY.
                                The House resolved itself into Committee of the
                                        Whole, (Mr. Edwards in the Chair,) and took up the
                                    several bills concerning interest on money - and first the
                                    committee considered Mr. Stsmfield's bill (65) to amend sec. 4,
                                    of the interest law, so as to allow of the recovery of principal
                                    and interest in cases where more than legal interest has been
                                    contracted - the committee having heretofore adopted Mr.
                                    Colgrove and Mr. Usrey's amendment, substituting a conventional
                                    rate of interest as high as ten per cent, on money loaned -
                                    restricting banks to loans payable at their banking-houses, and
                                    from taking exchange on notes and bills payable at any other
                                    place, [as printed in page 84 of these reports.]
                                Mr. STANFIELD stated the provision of the original bill, and the
                                    reasoning for it, and the support which its principle had
                                    already received in our own legislation allowing the usurious
                                    money-lender to recover his principal. He regarded the amendment
                                    of Mr. Colgrove as out of order - not being germane or pertinent
                                    to the preposition.
                                The CHAIRMAN. The amendment was adopted by the committee the
                                    other day. And since Mr. Martin's bill, (123) with an amendment,
                                    and also a petition on this subject, from sundry citizens of
                                    Vermillion county, and another bill have been referred to this
                                    committee, the parliamentary law prescribes that questions can
                                    only be put upon motion. The question to recommend the bill as
                                    amended to the House, pending when the committee rose last
                                    Wednesday, will be put, unless another motion be made, which can
                                    have precedence of that.
                                Mr. Speaker GORDON moved to report a motion to the House that the
                                    bill and amendment be indefinitely postponed. The burden of
                                    proof was upon the friends of this proposition raising the rate
                                    of interest. He had before endeavored to refute the arguments
                                    submitted in favor of it. Since the former discussion, he had
                                    learned that the Ohio Legislature-(a State where they had made
                                    trial of the higher rate)have returned to the old rate of 6 per
                                    cent. He went on, at some length, with the argument against any
                                    increase of the present legal rate.
                                Mr. STANFIELD stated the order, and acquiesced in the motion of
                                    Mr. Gordon. 
                                
                                Mr. COLGROVE reiterated his former argument for his amendment -
                                    alleging again, that the banks were the Shylocks in our State,
                                    and replying to Mr. Gordon. It was not proposed to establish the
                                    rate of 10 per cent., but to establish a principle of law bv
                                    which parties shall not contract for more than 10 per cent, he
                                    supposed when his amendment was adopted in Committee of
                                        the Whole the other day, that the vote thereon was
                                    a test of the feeling of the House on the subject.
                                Mr. COMSTOCK. In his opinion, whoever pays more than 6 per cent.,
                                    "pays too dear for his whistle." He would adhere to those rules
                                    of law which were calculated to enrich a people. He would not,
                                    by his vote, give countenance to any principle that would
                                    oppress the arm of labor.
                                Mr. DOBBINS defined his position to the question. The principle
                                    of the bill involved a contest between capital and labor A
                                    mechanic himself, he would give no vote for a law to oppress the
                                    mechanics of the State- He showed the practical workings of such
                                    a law as the bill proposed, and honed the committee would
                                    recommend its indefinite postponement.
                                Mr. MELLETT, though not in favor of this bill, he and his
                                    constituents were in favor of some change of the law on this
                                    subject. Some legal rate should be fixed, to determine the value
                                    of the use of money in the absence of any contract, but beyond
                                    this, he considered, there should be no restriction upon
                                    contract for interest. He replied to the foregoing arguments
                                    against the bill. The opposition to the bill proceeded upon the
                                    principle that men did not know how to take care of their own
                                    interests in a contract. If gentlemen would have laws and
                                    contracts enforced, there was a necessity that there should be
                                    discretion allowed to the contracting parties. No law should
                                    restrict the discretion of parties competent to contract,
                                    &c.
                                Mr. STILES also spoke at length on the whole subject, submitting
                                    conclusions his opposition to the passage of the bill, and in
                                    reply to sundry arguments in support of it. The plea of
                                    violation was no argument against the law. There was no law in
                                    all the code hut could be made liable to such an objection. He
                                    was willing to vote for a law giving ten per cent, on contract,
                                    with the privilege of avoiding the four per cent excess, by
                                    paying the legal rate and accruing costs.
                                Mr. PARRETT looked at some of the probable results of the passage
                                    of the bill. It would induce the most stringent collections of
                                    money in order to put it out at interest. It would draw money
                                    from the manufacturer and the laborer, and put it into the
                                    vaults of the capitalist. It was the duty of the representative
                                    here to protect the interests of the whole peoplenot the
                                    interests of the few, &c.
                                Mr. GRIFFIN. The operation of the bill would not reach the case
                                    of the debtor, about which gentlemen had been warmly talking. It
                                    was only to affect money loaned upon contract Readmitted that
                                    the onus of the justice and the emergency of the bill rested
                                    upon its friends, and proceeded to distinguish between things
                                    right in - themselves, and things made right by law a thence to
                                    show that this people - the borrowing classes of the people -
                                    were desirous of a higher rate of interest, and the Legislature
                                    had only to authorize it and it became right. Such, alone, would
                                    enable individuals to come into equal competition with bankers
                                    in the business of hiring money; it would "remove the deposits"
                                    from the banks and invest the money elsewhere. The ten per cent,
                                    law in Ohio had accomplished its objecthad drawn capital with
                                    her borders, and now she was prepared to repeal it, &c.
                                Mr Speaker GORDON regarded the amendment of Mr. Colgrove as
                                    unconstitutional, because it was an infraction of that clause
                                    which prohibits the Legislature from granting to any citizen, or
                                    class of citizens, any privilege or immunity which is not
                                    extended equally to all. Here was the privilege of four per
                                    cent, advantage to the money-leader. What an immense advantage
                                    this privilege would give to the banks. It would increase the
                                    annual amount of interest paid by the people of Indiana to three
                                    million of dollars. And such a thing was demanded by the people!
                                    say the gentleman from Randolph and the gentleman from Lake.
                                    There were not 300 names on all the petitions of the session
                                    asking for such a law, &c. He looked at the past experience
                                    of the State under legislation in this direction, and replied to
                                    the foregoing arguments. This same scheme of a high rate of
                                    interest was now cramping and crushing out the energies of the
                                    people of the State of Wisconsin, &c.
                                Mr. NEBEKER of Warren, made an effectual motion, that the
                                    committee rise, and ask leave to sit again to-morrow.
                                Mr. Speaker Gordon's motion to recommend the indefinite
                                    postponement of Mr. Stanfield's bill, as amended, was now agreed
                                    to.
                                On motion by Mr. AUSTIN, it was agreed that the committee
                                    recommend that Mr. Martin's bill (123) and amendments thereto,
                                    be laid on the table.
                                On motion by Mr. STANFIELD, the committee rose, and the Chairman
                                    reported their action, as above.
                                The House then (at 4:45 o'clock) adjourned.

                            
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             THURSDAY, February 3, 1859. 
                        
                         The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate a
                            communication from the Quartermaster General, in reply to a resolution
                            of that body of the 26th inst., which was laid on the table without
                            reading, and 500 copies ordered to be printed. 
                        
                            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS AND REMONSTRANCES. 
                            Mr. JENNINGS presented two petitions from 250 citizens of Johnson
                                county, praying for the enactment of a temperance law, which was
                                referred to the  Committee on Temperance.
                            Mr. ODELL presented the memorial of Messrs. Suit, Alexander and Sage,
                                asking for $200 each, as expenses incurred by them in visiting Neff
                                York city, by direction of a resolution of the Senate adopted at the
                                session of 1857, and examining the books of the Agent of State,
                                which was referred to the Committee on
                                Claims.
                            
                            SLACK presented a remonstrance adopted Convention of Delegates from
                                along the of the Wabash and Erie Canal, relating to present
                                condition of that improvement, was referred to the
                                    Committee on Finance.
                            Mr.BOBBS presented the memorial of Wm. Sheets, asking indemnity to
                                the amount of $42,249 for losses sustained by leases of water
                                privileges on the Wabash and Erie Canal, which was to a select
                                committee of five, which is made to consist of Senators Bobbs,
                                March, Jones, Conner and Wallace. 
                        
                        
                            TAXATION.
                             The Committee on Finance returned Senator
                                Williams' bill (43) to amend sec. 23 of an act providing for the
                                valuation and assessment of real and personal property, approved
                                June 21,1852, with an amendment providing that the tax-payer may
                                deduct the amount of his indebtedness within this State, from his
                                personal property and solvent claims, recommending its passage.
                            Mr. MURRAY thought if the declarations so often made upon this floor
                                are true that the people of the State are so overwhelmingly in
                                debt,the provisions revisions of the bill and the amendment would
                                prove suicidal - that the State would suffer thereby in its
                                resources. He was opposed to the amendment and to the bill.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS hoped we may pass a bill somewhat similar to this. Since
                                1852 one class of our citizens pay taxes on just what they are
                                worth, while another class pays taxes on three times what they are
                                worth.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON doubted the constitutionality of the amendment
                                proposed. The report was concurred in by consent.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to lay the bill and amendment on the table.
                            The motion was lost, yeas 21, nays 23.
                            A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of
                                the bill (H.R. 12.)
                        
                        
                             BANK OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
                             The special order for this hour [10 o'clock] being Senator Conley's
                                bill (42) to repeal the charter of the Bank of the State of Indiana,
                                coming up - 
                            Mr. STUDABAKER moved to postpone the subject till Monday next at 2
                                o'clock.
                            Mr. CRAVENS [Senator Murray in the Chair] hoped the matter would not
                                be postponed, as there is a vast deal of interest felt in this
                                matter by the people all over the State.
                            Mr. MARCH was prepared to vote without reference to the manner in
                                which the bank has been conducted, but was willing to postpone to a
                                day certain
                            Mr. WALLACE was in favor of postponement.
                            Mr.TARKINGTON could not see why it is we can not enter upon the
                                discussion at once.
                            Mr. HEFFREN thought we might as well have this matter disposed of at
                                one time as well as another.
                            Mr. STEELE was opposed to postponement.
                            Mr. GOODING cared very little whether the question was postponed or
                                not. As an anti-bank man he did not ask for a postponement.
                            Mr. GREEN moved to lay the motion to postpone on the table.
                            The motion was lost by yeas 25, nays 23.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to indefinitely postpone.
                            Mr. GOODING moved to lay this motion on the table.
                            On this motion the yeas and nays were demanded, and being ordered and
                                taken, resulted - yeas 26, nays 22 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Bennett,
                                            Bobbs, Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Craven, Fisk, Gooding,
                                            Hargrove, Hendry, Jennings, Jones, Kinley, Lomax,
                                            McClure, March, 0'Brien, Robinson, Shoemaker, Slack,
                                            Studabaker, Turner, Wallace, Weir and Wilson - 26. 
                                        NAY - Messrs. Beeson, Blair, Brown,
                                            Conner, Cooper, Cravens, Green, Hamilton, Heffren, Hill,
                                            Johnston, Line, McLean, Miller, Murray, Odell, Steele,
                                            Stevens, Tarkington, Thompson, Wagner and Williams -
                                            22.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. ANTHONY, when his name was called, said he desired to have this
                                matter determined by this Legislature, pro. or con.
                            Mr. BENNETT, in explanation, wanted to give the friends of the bill a
                                chance to discuss it.
                            Mr. CRAVENS, in explanation, would say for the information of
                                Senators that he was not here as the advocate of this, that or the
                                other measure; he was sent here by the people of Jefferson county
                                for the purpose of protecting the interest of the State, whether
                                individual or corporate. He held that this Legislature had no right
                                to get up a question involving the highest and deepest question
                                concerning the whole people - involving the currency which the
                                Legislature had imposed upon the people - affecting so vitally and
                                so perfectly that interest, without at once settling that question
                                and letting the people know whether this institution is to be
                                stricken down or whether it is to be let alone, and do as it has
                                been doing heretofore, furnish them with a currency.
                            Mr. HEFFREN, in explanation, wanted this thing disposed of, and did
                                not want gentlemen to be polly-foxing around any longer.
                            Mr. MARCH, in explanation, professed to have at heart the interest of
                                the people of the while State, and took it that no measure can
                                conduce more to it than to purify her currency. He desired to have
                                this thing decided. There was certainly no fear in the ranks of
                                those who are disposed to examine into the validity of its charter,
                                and they are not in favor of dodging by an indefinite postponement -
                                for that is nothing more than a cowardly dodge.
                            Mr. SLACK, in explanation, said that for the purpose of having the
                                thing settled, and for the reasons given by the Senator from
                                Jefferson, he should vote "aye."
                            Mr. TARKINGTON, would not be willing to have this question thrust
                                upon and crowded through here by any legislation of his, but as
                                there has been already given a sufficient time for preparation for
                                debate; as the motion to indefinitely postpone does not cut off
                                argument; and for the purpose of settling this matter as soon as
                                possible, he voted "no."
                            Mr. WAGNER, in explanation, said: Several anti-bank men were in favor
                                of staving off this subject. These gentlemen have brought in a bill
                                to repeal the charter of the Bank of the State of Indiana, but they
                                have never urged a moment's consideration of the matter, whilst we
                                are ready to meet it, and have been so from the  first. Gentlemen who have urged the
                                repeal of this charter made their own report, made the motion to
                                postpone the subject to a day certain, and yet they want to put it
                                off from day to day be cause they are not ready, when the question
                                is up, to sustain their own acts. Who makes this motion to postpone?
                                Who is now resorting to parliamentary tactics? It is the friends of
                                the re peal, and not the friends of the bank.
                            Mr. WALLACE, in explanation, said: He was an anti-bank man, always
                                had been, and was proud to say he was yet. He was in hopes this
                                matter would be thoroughly discussed; and wanted to learn the
                                opinion of learned gentlemen upon the question of the
                                constitutionality of the power of the Legislature to repeal that
                                charter. He believed every dollar that would be withdrawn by this
                                bank upon the repeal of the charter, would be supplied before three
                                weeks by the free banks of the State. He wanted this question
                                settled, if possible, whether or not it is lawful for a bank to
                                exercise the power of currency of this State that necessarily and of
                                right belongs to the Legislature. The interests of the people are at
                                the door of that bank - it controls the currency of the State of
                                Indiana. That power has passed beyond the Legislature, and for that
                                reason he wanted a full and fair discussion of the question.
                            So the motion to indefinitely postpone lies on the table.
                            The bill, and the majority and minority reports of the committee,
                                were then read at the Clerk's desk - the question being on
                                concurring in the report of the majority, recommending the passage
                                of the bill.
                            Mr. CONLEY had been convinced of the fact from the time of the
                                introduction of the bill for the passage of the law granting this
                                bank charter, that it was morally and politically wrong; he had ever
                                been convinced there were means resorted to secure the passage of
                                the bill, that should not be brought to bear upon any Legislature -
                                that members had voted for the passage of that bill from mercenary
                                and impure motives and he had never been convinced that men who are
                                acting under the provisions of that charter have carried out the
                                intentions of the charter as it was passed. A great many people
                                believed that money to be as good as the money of the old State
                                Bank; while an examination of that charter would show that the
                                institution is permitted to issue $3 for every $1 in stock, and they
                                are allowed to loan and issue bills of exchange upon their
                                deposites. He proceeded, in a few remarks to sustain the provisions
                                of his bill: asserting, among other things, that it was believed by
                                a number of persons that $10,000 was expended to prohibit the
                                members of the last Legislature from repealing this bank
                                charter.
                            Mr. BENNETT said he had intended to cast a silent vote, but his
                                constituents were interested in the question. He had believed from
                                the beginning that Senators in voting for the repeal reflected more
                                of their own personal opinions than of the will of the people of the
                                State. Said he would not attempt any defence of banks The experience
                                of the civilized world had demonstrated the fact, that the business
                                of the commercial world could not be transacted in a manner
                                commensurate with the progress, the progress, the
                                    dignity, and the necessities
                                of the age. The legislator who wages war on banks, and proclaims the
                                glories of "hard currency," simply advertises himself the
                                representative of an effete idea which never had any practical
                                force. Men of all parties had cease to make the bank question an
                                issue in political controversies. Banking operations properly
                                regulated by law had become the settled policy of the country. To
                                change this policy would require a revolution in public sentiment He
                                had no disposition to disturb any institution of the State,
                                especially when his constituents had not demanded it.
                            As to the charge of the fraud being used to secure the passage of the
                                charter, he had his own opinion, but should not stop to inquire the
                                precise manner of its passage; it was enough that it received the
                                constitutional majority. He should take a higher view, and inquire
                                whether the bank as it now exists meets the wishes of the people?
                                Over four millions of its issues were in circulation - it furnishes
                                the people with a currency in which they have confidence, by which
                                the people transact their business, remove their produce, pay their
                                taxes, &c. His constituents were interested as stockholders and
                                billholders. The branches were in the hands of the old State Bank
                                men; he knew some of them, and they were good men. He believed the
                                repeal would entail evil on the country - it was not prayed for by
                                any petition. The press did not demand it; he was not elected on
                                such an issue! Besides, be did not believe the Legislature had the
                                constitutional power to repeal it; it was a contract under which
                                individual rights had vested. The contract was offered by the State
                                and accepted by the people-Fraud vitiates contracts, but the
                                wrong-doer could not set up the plea. The Courts alone were
                                competent to decide this question. The Supreme Court had decided in
                                favor of the bank. He should carry out the honor of the State, the
                                will of the people and his own convictions, by opposing the
                                repeal.
                            Mr. SLACK, in principle, was opposed to the bank, and had he been a
                                member of the legislature of 1855, it would have received his
                                unqualified opposition; but for reasons which he read from a
                                manuscript, he should vote against a repeal of the bank charter.
                            Mr. GOODING obtained the floor, in favor of the repeal, and after a
                                few remarks gave way a motion for the recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. GOODING resumed, and spoke in favor of the bill under
                                consideration for an hour and a half, reading copious extracts from
                                Jackson's farewell address, from the Constitution United States, and
                                the Constitution of the State of Indiana, in substantiation of
                                arguments advanced by him in support of the position he had
                                taken.
                            Mr. CRAVENS, in 1855, voted for that bank bill against his own
                                convictions of right and justice and he was not now a particular
                                friend of that institution. He voted for it as the only means which
                                he could reach the necessary amendments to the free banking system
                                to which  he was pledged. Yet
                                if it was practicable he would go as far the most ultra Democrat on
                                the subject of a specie circulation, but as it is manfest to every
                                business man,situated as we are in close neighborhood with other
                                States where banks exist, that we would be compelled to submit to
                                such a paper currency as they might, choose to impose upon us. He
                                thought it better to let the State furnish her people with a
                                circulation over which they had some control.
                            Mr. HENDRY took a different view from the Senator who last occupied
                                the floor. He was a member of the Senate at the time of the original
                                passage of this bank charter, And the arguments revived here by the
                                bank men are the same as were stereotyped and urged by them at the
                                time of the passage of that law. When he had concluded - 
                             The Senate adjourned.
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             THURSDAY, February 3, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            By Mr. MELLETT: of John B. Wilson and others, of Henry county, for
                                the protection of quails which was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            By the SPEAKER: of the Sheriff of Marion county, presenting his claim
                                for expenses incurred in the capture of a fugitive from justice.
                            By Mr. GRIFFIN: of John DeGraff and others, citizens of Lake county,
                                for an amendment of the Road law, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Roads.
                            By Mr. WILDMAN: of Alexander Hamilton and other citizens of Lagrange
                                county, for the destruction of the Canada Thistle, which was
                                referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.
                            By Mr. SMITH, of Miami: of H. Richards and other practical printers,
                                against the reduction of the prices of ihe Public Printing, which
                                was referred to the Committee on Public
                                    Expenditures.
                            By the SPEAKER: of William Sheets, of Marion county, with reference
                                to his leases of water power on the canal, claiming damages to the
                                extent of $42,000, &c., which, on motion of Mr. Blythe, was
                                referred to a select committee of five, which the SPEAKER makes to
                                consist of Messrs. Blythe, Stanfield, Davis, Mellett and Turpie.
                            By Mr. MERRIFIELD: of sundry citizens of Valparaiso, Porter county,
                                presenting claims for the recapture of fugitives from justice, which
                                was referred to the Committee on Claims. The
                                committee is Messrs. Colgrove, Gifford, Turpie, Snyder and
                                Martin.
                            By Mr. SMITH, of Perry: of Messrs. Reynolds and others of his county,
                                on the subject of is bill in relation to the removal of the county
                                seat of said county, and asked that it be referred to a committee of
                                five, of which he desired not to be a member. 
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            By Mr. CAVINS: (Judiciary) - returning his bill
                                (85) for the relief of Peter Shuhz, recommending passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            By Mr. MELLETT: (Judiciary) - returning his bill
                                (82) to regulate practice in cases appealed to the Supreme Court,
                                recommending passage. The report was concurred in, and the bill
                                ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. MELLETT: (Judiciary)returning Mr.
                                Manfield's bill (147) to authorize the Board of Directors of any
                                incorporated company to reduce the amount of their capital stock,
                                and the nominal value of shares, recommending passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. COLGROVE, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                submitted a report responding to a resolution of the House,
                                inquiring whether the Legislature "has the power to prohibit the
                                issuing and circulation of bank bills of a less denomination than
                                $5, by banks in this State," alleging that by the 3d section of the
                                act of 1852, the free banks were expressly authorized to issue bills
                                of the usual denominations, from one to five hundred dollars. The
                                amended act of 1855, restricts them to the twelfth part of their
                                respective issues. These acts also expressly reserve the right of
                                the State to alter, amend, or change the law on that subject; and
                                the free banks have accepted their franchises with this condition.
                                Therefore the Legislature have the power, &c. But the 53d
                                section of the act under which the Bank of the State has organized,
                                expressly authorizes that bank to make one-sixth of her issues of a
                                less denomination than five dollars, and the State has not reserved
                                the right to alter that; and it continues twenty years. The
                                committee regard this as "a contract between the State and
                                corporation, and that the State has no legal right to violate it by
                                increasing the obligations, or imposing restrictions on the bank not
                                provided for by the original act." The committee are also of
                                opinion, that "a law restricting our free banks would be unjust and
                                inexpedient."
                            By Mr. PARRETT: (Judiciary) - returning Mr.
                                Stiles' bill (101) to regulate practice in the Courts, in taking
                                exceptions to the overruling of demurrers, recommending passage.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE; (Judiciary) - returning Mr.
                                Sherman's bill (168) to amend the act authorizing railroad and other
                                road companies to borrow money, recommending passage.
                            These reports were concurred in, and the bills severally ordered to
                                be engrossed.
                            By Mr.STANFIELD: (Judiciary) - returning Mr.
                                Scott's bill (31) to amend the 228th section of the practice act of
                                June 18, 1852, with the expression of opinion that legislation is
                                inexpedient thereon, unless the restrictions aie taken off and all
                                parties allowed to testily in their own cases. The committee
                                recommended indefinite postponement.
                             The report was concurred in, and the bill postpened.
                            By Mr. PARRETT: (Judiciary) - returning the
                                resolution of inquiry into the constitutionality of section 6 of an
                                act, entitled An Act regulating the lees of officers, page 291, when
                                compared with section 21, article 1, of the Con stitution of the State of Indiana,"
                                with the suggestion that it is unnecessary to inquire into the
                                constitutionality of the section and act referred to, the same
                                having been repealed in 1855, and that they deem inquiry as to any
                                conflict of principle of that section, or any law containing a
                                similar-section with the Constitution of the State, as unnecessary,
                                the same having been settled by the uniform rulings of the courts of
                                the State, and therefore they recommend that the resolution be
                                indefinitely postponed.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill postponed.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD: (Judiciary) - returning Mr. Parks' bill (126) to
                                amend the act for the election of Circuit Court Clerks - section 2,
                                chapter 5, second volume Revised Statutes, recommending indefinite
                                postponement.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill was postponed accordingly.
                            
                        
                        
                            THE STATE FINANCES.
                             Mr. BRANHAM, from the Committee on Ways and
                                Means, reported the following bills:
                            An act (192) defining certain felonies and misdemeanors, prescribing
                                penalties therefor, and providing certain evidence on the part of
                                the State.
                            An act (193) relative to the salaries of public officers, and
                                providing for paying the same, and the manner of reimbursing the
                                State for an increase of their salaries- [Governor
                                $3,000--Treasurer--2,500--Auditor 2,000--Secretary of
                                State--$1,500--Comptroller $1,500--&c.]
                            An act (194) to provide for the election and prescribe the duties of
                                a Comptroller of State.
                            An act (195) to provide a safe treasury system for the State of
                                Indiana; for the manner of receiving, holding and disbursing the
                                public moneys of the State, and in the several counties of the
                                State.
                            On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, (the rules being suspended in each case -
                                yeas 81, nays 0) - these several bills were read the second time,
                                laid on the table, and 300 copies thereof ordered to be printed -
                                200 for the use of the House of Representatives, and 100 copies for
                                the use of the Senate.
                            Mr. STANFIELD: (Judiciary Committee) returned the
                                bill (131) to secure dues from private corporations, with an
                                amendment striking out the second section, and inserting:
                            SECTION 2, The stockholders and members of such
                                corporation shall be individually liable for its debts, to an amount
                                equal to the interest or stock which they may respectively have
                                therein, and the privileges and immunities which they have
                                heretofore granted to such corporation, shall, upon the same terms
                                equally belong to all citizens who may desire to incorporate
                                themselves for the same purposes, subject to the individual
                                liability aforesaid.
                            The report was concurred in, the amendments adopted, and the bill
                                ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. STILES, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returning Mr. Clement's bill (129) touching proceedings in
                                abatement, and dilatory defenses in civil actions, with an amendment
                                striking out the words "dilatory defenses," and recommending
                                passage.
                            The report was concurred in, arid the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            By Mr STILES: (Judiciary)returning Mr. Boyd's bill ( ) to compel
                                owners of town lots to grade and pave the same, with an amendment,
                                striking out the words "together with 25 per cent. damages," and
                                recommending passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                        


                        
                             PUBLIC NOTICE OF ADMINISTRATORS.
                            Mr. STANFIELD moved to reconsider thc vote of this morning,
                                concurring in the Judiciary Committee's report to
                                postpone Mr. Park's bill, No. 126.
                            Mr. PARKS considered it an important bill. It was to change the
                                practice of the clerk in making publications in administration
                                cases, and giving the control of publication to the party himself or
                                his attorney. This was to provide against the negligence of clerks
                                to the injury parties. This was especially so in the casetf
                                administrators. His constituents desired this change, because it
                                would facilitate proceedings and save expense of costs, &c.
                            The House refused to reconsider.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD, from the Committee on Education,
                                returned Mr. Waterman's bill (107) appropriating the proceeds of
                                interest Sinking Fund to the support of common schools with an
                                amendment, proposing a preamble, viz:
                            WHEREAS, The 114th section of the Old State Bank
                                Act prescribes that the principal and interest of the Sinking Fund
                                shall be reserved and set apart for the purpose of paying off
                                certain State debts and the interest thereon and for no other
                                purpose till that is accompiished; but that the residue of said fund
                                shall become a permanent fund, to be applied to the support of
                                common schools, as the General Assembly shall direct:
                            AND WHEREAS, The present means and assets of the said fund are more
                                than sufficient to meet the aforesaid demand:
                            AND WHEREAS, By the act to secure te State debt to
                                said Sinking Fund, of December 23,1858, the States has warranted the
                                full and prompt discharge of said liabilities.
                            AND WHEREAS, The evident intention to secure the
                                payment of the aforesaid liabilities, as expressed in the 114th
                                section of the Bank Act, has now been fully complied with:
                                Therefore.
                            Also, striking out the 5th section, and adding-an emergency.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill to ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            By Mr. BOYD: (Education)returning the memorial of
                                the Trustees of the town of Carlisle, with the expression of opinion
                                that legislation on the subject is unnecessary and inexpedient.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            By Mr. CAVINS: (Claims) returning Mr. Murray's
                                bill (180) for the relief of Joe Ellis with the expression of
                                opinion that Ellis' remedy is on his deed as occupying claimant, and
                                recommending the reference of the bill and memorial to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            By Mr. BRANHAM: (Sinking Fund) returning the
                                resolution inquiring whether any law or public interest would be
                                infringed by appropriating annually the unexpended balance of
                                interest on the Sinking Fund for the support of common schools, with
                                the expression of opinion that such an appropriation would be in
                                violation of the act creating the Sinking Fund - and asking to be
                                discharged from the further consideration of the subject.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            
                            By Mr. NELSON: (Rights and Privileges) returning
                                Mr. Blythe's bill (146) to amend the act incorporating Insurance
                                Companies, of June 7,1852, recommending passage.
                            The bill was rejected.

                        
                        
                            INDIAN AND NEGRO TESTIMONY
                             By Mr. JEFFRIES: (Rights and Privileges) a majority reporting a bill
                                (196) to repeal the set to prohibit the evidence of Indians and
                                persons having one eighth of negro blood, where white persons are
                                parties in interest, approved February 14, 1853.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. Is there no minority report?
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD There will be one.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. I think there ought to be.
                            Mr. JEFFRIES had hoped this would not be made a party question. He
                                knew that many of the greatest rascals, in his part of the country,
                                went unwhipped of justice because of the existence of this act, the
                                repeal of which is so respectably petitioned for from his
                                county.
                            Mr BLYTHE moved to reject the bill, seconded by Mr. EDWARDS - and the
                                yeas and nays being ordered and taken thereon, resulted - yes 64,
                                nays 20 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                         Messrs. Baird,Blythe, Bowman, Boyd, Branham, Carr,
                                            Cavins. Claypool, Clayton, Collier, Davidson, Dobbins,
                                            Dougherty, Devol, Early, Eastham, Edwards, Firestone,
                                            Fordyce, Gifford, Gregory, Hamilton of Boone, Hancock,
                                            Harney, Harrison, Hartley, Hunter, Johnston, Jones,
                                            Jordan, Keefer, Kempf, Knowlton, Lawhead, Lewis, McLain,
                                            Major, Mansfield, Massey, Merrifield, Miller, Martin,
                                            Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Nelson,
                                            Newton, Parrett, Prosser, Row, Rynerson, Shields,
                                            Shockley, Shull, Smith of Miami Smith, of Perry, Snyder.
                                            Stanley, Sullivan, Thompson of Elkhart, Thompson of
                                            Madison, Turpie, Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler, Whetzel and
                                            Wood-64.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Boxley,
                                            Brotherton, Clark, Comstock, Hall of Grant, Hamilton, of
                                            Wayne, Jeffies, Mellett, Parks, Power, Ritter, Robinson,
                                            Scott, Sherman, Stanfleld, Stiles, Treadway, Whiteman
                                            and Wildman - 20. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             So the bill was rejected.
                        
                        
                            PROTECTION OF FISH.
                            By. Mr. BROTHERTON: (Rights and
                                Privileges)returning Mr. Scott's bill (121) for the
                                protection of fish in the lakes of this State, with a substitute
                                prescribing $5 to $50 fine for taking ty seine or shot between the
                                first day of March and the first day of September - compelling
                                participants to testify.
                            Mr. WHETZEL moved to recommit, with instructions to amend, by
                                including creeks and rivers whereof both banks are within this
                                State.
                            Mr. STANFIELD. Does that bill prohibit fishing with hook and line; if
                                it does, I am against it. [Laughter]
                            Mr. Scott was opposed to the amendment.In the northern part of the
                                Stite were lakes furnishing fish abundantly, and persons from abroad
                                were in the habit of netting and seining during the spawning season,
                                and soon they would exterminate the small lake fish. It was not
                                proposed to interfere with taking fish by hook or gig. There were
                                numerous petitioners for the law.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, hoped the amendment would be adopted, without
                                layering either the bill or the amendment.
                            Mr. SULLIVAN moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone: And the bill also.
                            The latter motion was agreed to - affirmative 32, negative 29.
                            Mr. PARKS(Rights and Privileges)returned his bill
                                (108) for protection ot cranberries, with an amendment by way of
                                substitute, and recommending passage.
                            On motion by Mr. KEEFER, the bill was laid on the table.
                            On motion by Mr. KEEFER, Mr. Row was allowed leave of absence till
                                Monday.
                            By Mr. RYNERSON - (Benevolent
                                Institutions)returned the letter of the Superintendent of
                                the Blind Institution, relative to blindness induced by
                                intermarriage of persons connected by ties of consanguinity, with
                                the expression of opinion that action is unnecessary.
                            Mr. STANFIELD, from the Committee on Corporations,
                                returned his bill (5) to incorporate school townships; defining
                                their powers; requiring the title of school lots to be vested in the
                                corporate name of the township, town or city, in which the same is
                                situate; authorizing public school houses to be occupied for private
                                schools and for other meetings; to authorize the Common Council or
                                Aldermen of a city, and the Trustees of an incorporated town to levy
                                all taxes for schools and for the building and repair of school
                                houses, and to repeal all laws inconsistent with this act, without
                                amendment and recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            By Mr. BROTHERTON: (Corporations)- returning the
                                resolution inquiring Into the expediency of requiring railroads to
                                fence their tracks except where the same are cross; d by public
                                highways, or where they traverse the plats of towns and cities,
                                recommending that the same be laid on the table.
                            The report was concurred in. 
                        
                        
                            SMALL BANK BILLS.
                             Mr. JONES, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill (74)
                                to prohibit the circulation of bank bills of a less denomination
                                than $5, fixing penalty, &c., recommending passage.
                            Mr. BLYTHE. Precisely a similar question had been acted on this
                                moaning. He referred to and read from the law, in page 240 of the
                                act of 1855clearly giving to the bank the power of issuing notes of
                                a lesa denomination than $5, but not less than $1, &c.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY saw. nothing in that to prevent the Legislature from
                                prohibiting the circulation of small bills. If this were so - if the
                                Legislature were to be fettered in is action by that bank charter,
                                it was time to be getting rid of it. He regarded it as a settled
                                determination on all sides, to return gradually to a specie
                                circulation, &c.
                            Mr. BOYD read a part of the 93d section of the Bank Charter,
                                authorizing amendments thereof, &c.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY supposed that would involve the consent of the
                                Directors.
                            Mr. HARNEY. We should judge for ourselves of the constitutionality of
                                our acts here; and he considered that we had the same right to  amend the bank charter that we
                                have and exercise with reference to any other Statute. If we have
                                the right to amend a general incorporation law, we certainly may
                                exercise the same right with respect to special charters. He
                                reasoned on this, and on the necessity of the passage of the bill to
                                thrust out the small bills with which we are flooded from other
                                States.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, alleged that this bill involved an
                                impracticable proposition. It had failed of enforcement, not only in
                                this State, but in the States of Ohio and Illinois.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, objected to the bill, on account of the
                                inconvenience in carrying small change in metal. Neither was it
                                desired by the people, as he believed.
                            Mr. BAIRD was surprised to hear Mr. Dougherty admit that, though we
                                might not have the power to prevent their
                                    circulation, &c.
                            Mr. JONES. The laws of Kentucky, prohibit successfully the
                                circulation of small notes from other States. The former law in this
                                State was not like this, neither have they any such legislation in
                                Ohio and Illinois.
                            Mr. TURPIE favored t-he principle of the bill, but was unwilling to
                                discriminate in favor of the State Bunk, &c. On his motion, the
                                bill and amendment proposed, were referred to the Committee
                                    on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. COLLIER, from the select committee thereon, returned the
                                    Temperance Committee's bill (114) to prevent
                                the sale, barter, or given away of mixed or adulterated, spirituous
                                or malt liquors, recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill was ordered to he
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. BOYD, from the select committee on the resolution for paying
                                Supervisors by exemption from future service, reported a bill (196)
                                to amend the act providing for the election or appoint merit of
                                Supervisors, &c., approved June 18, 1852, which was passed the
                                first reading.
                            Mr. BROTHERTON, from the select committee on Mr. Sherman's bill (118)
                                to enforce payment of deposits and bank issues, returned the same
                                with a recommendation that the same be laid on the table.
                            The report, was concurred in.
                        
                        
                             RESOLUTIONS.
                            By Mr. DOBBINS, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on County and Township Business inquire
                                            into the expediency of so amending the law regulating
                                            County Surveyors as to enable the land-owner
                                            dissatisfied with his survey, to call in two or more
                                            County. Surveyors and have the same satisfactorily
                                            adjusted, and so avoid litigation.
                                    
                                
                            
                            By Mr. JONES, which was rejected:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the use of this House be
                                            granted to the Indiana Association for the Advancement
                                            of Science on Friday evening next at 7 o'clock.
                                    
                                
                            
                            By Mr. HUNTER, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, at the Auditor of State be
                                            requested to furnish this House immediately of what
                                            amounts of money have been audited and paid out of the
                                            treasury of the former and the present Secretary of
                                            State, and for what purposes; and also, what amounts
                                            have been audited and paid out, and to whom, for the
                                            selection of swamp lands.
                                    
                                
                            
                            By Mr. SULLIVAN:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That in the opinion of this
                                            House there should be a law regulating the sale of
                                            patent medicines and quack nostrums, so as to prevent,
                                            as possible, the frauds daily practiced upon the people
                                            by the sale of such compounds. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             On his motion it was referred to a select committee of five, viz:
                                Messrs. Sullivan, Sherman, Comstook, Mellett, and Robinson.
                            By Mr. PARRETT, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Benevolent Institutions be requested and
                                            instructed to report a bill providing for the
                                            enlargement of the Hospital for the Insane, so as to
                                            afford accommodations for patients discharged as
                                            incurable. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            By Mr. RYNERSON, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Benevolent Institutions be authorized to
                                            send for persons and papers to administer oaths, and do
                                            all things necessary to a full and complete
                                            investigation of the offices of the Benevolent
                                            Institutions of the State. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            y Mr. TURPIE: for a joint convention of the two Houses, next
                                Wednesday 10 o'clock to go into the election of Trustees and
                                Commissioners for the institutions for the Deaf and Dumb, the Blind,
                                and the Insane, which was laid on the table.
                            Mr. KNOWLTON, which was rejected: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Public Buildings be requested to inquire
                                            into the expediency of this authorizing the building of
                                            a new State-house, for legislative and judiciary
                                            purposes, within the next two years, and to report by
                                            bill or otherwise. B
                                    
                                
                            
                            By Mr. SCOTT, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Judiciary
                                                Committee inquire whether the crime of
                                            procuring abortion has a sufficient punishment under the
                                            Statutes - equal to the enormity of the offence. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            By Mr. WATERMAN: which was rejected:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS,It appears to be a conceded
                                            fact that the people of the State of Indiana are more
                                            heavly taxed than the people of ary of the surrounding
                                            States, and it is further conceded that the people of
                                            said State of Indiana are taxed higher than they should
                                            be; therefore,
                                        Resolved, That a committee of five be
                                            appointed, whose duties, it shall be to take into
                                            consideration all matters of public business. State,
                                            county or township, and inquire whether the public
                                            expenses can not be reduced by simplifying business,
                                            &c ; and that said committee report, from time to
                                            time, by bill or otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            
                            By Mr. SHULL: which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Trustees of the
                                            Wabash and Erie Canal be requested to furnish this House
                                            at their earliest convenience, with a statement of the
                                            amount of land sold since the transfer of the canal to
                                            the bond holders.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. Robinson's resolution, submitted under the rule for changing the
                                order of business, was now taken from the table and adopted. It is
                                as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That after the adoption of
                                            this resolution the orders of the day shall take
                                            preedence of resolutions and the introduction of bills
                                            in the order of business.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
                            Mr. STANFIELD submitted a joint resolution (24) authorizing the
                                General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church to hold their next
                                session in the Hall ot the House of Representatives, and adding the
                                use of the Senate Chamber and committee rooms, and the use of the
                                books in the State Library, on the same terms they are accorded to
                                members of the Legislature; which was adopted, and sent to the
                                Senate - yeas 63, nays 4.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            On motion by Mr. CAVINS, the special order Mr. Davis' bill, No. 1was
                                postponed till Tuesday, two o'clock, P. M. 
                            
                        
                    
                    
                
                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 9 1859.
                        No. 9.
                    
                    
                        
                            INTEREST ON MONEY.
                            The SPEAKER announced the consideration of the unfinished business -
                                the several bills concerning the interest on money - the first
                                question being on the recommendation of the committee of the whole
                                to lay Mr. Nebeker of Warren's bill (22) on the table.
                            The recommendation was concurred in.
                            The next recommendation of the committee off the whole - to table Mr.
                                Martin's bill (123) was also agreed to.
                            To the third recommendation reported from the committee of the
                                wholethe indefinite postponement of Mr. Stanfield's bill, (65) with
                                the amendment - 
                            The SPEAKER held this recommendation cuts off the amendment, (Mr.
                                Colgrove's) adopted in committee of the
                                whole.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, took the floor in a general speech on the
                                whole subject, in favor of a conventional rate of interest,
                                defending the proposition he had introduced, and reviewing the
                                arguments heretofore submitted in opposition to its principle.
                            Mr. PROSSER defined his position to the question, arguing at length
                                the various points made in the debate, and introducing many
                                conclusions against a higher rate of interest.
                            Mr WHITEMAN spoke in reply to the arguments against Mr. Colgrove's
                                amendment for 10 per cent, on contract.
                            Mr. RYNERSON defined his position - speaking in opposition to any
                                increase of the rate.
                            Mr. SHERMAN made a general speech in favor of a conventional
                                rate.
                            Mr. POWER spoke in the same behfli.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, gave a his views against any change in the
                                Interest law.
                             Mr. STANFIELD defined the single object of the bill as expressed in
                                the title - to allow the recovery of principal and interest, where
                                more than legal interest is in the contract.
                            Mr. DOBBINS demanded the previous question, and under its force, the
                                House refused to postpone the bill, by yeas 35, nays 46.
                            Upon the question, "Shall the bill be ordered to engrossment?" Mr.
                                Stanfield demanded the previous question, and under its force, the
                                vote thereon stood-yeas 38, nays 43as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Blythe, Boxley,
                                            Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark, Collier, Early,
                                            Fordyce, Gifford, Gregory, Hamilton of Wayne, Hancock,
                                            Harrison, Jeffries, Keefer, Lewis, McLain, Mansfield,
                                            Merrifield, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren,
                                            Newton, Ritter, Scott, Sherman, Shull, Smith of Miami,
                                            Stanley, Stanfield, Stiles, Sullivan, Thompson of
                                            Elkhart, Turpie, Waterman, Wheeler, Wildman, and Mr.
                                            Speaker - 38.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Bowman, Carr, Claypool,
                                            Clayton, Clements, Comstock, Cotton, Dobbins, Dougherty,
                                            Duvol, Edwards, Firestone, Griffin, Hall of Grant,
                                            Hamilton of Boone, Harney, Hartley, Hunter, Johnston,
                                            Jordan, Kelly, Kempf, Knowlton, Lawhead, Major, Massey,
                                            Mellett, Nelson, Parks, Power, Prosser, Robinson,
                                            Rynerson, Scott, Shields, Shockley; Smith of Perry,
                                            Snyder, Thompson of Madison, Treadway, Usrey, Whetzel,
                                            Whiteman and Wood - 43.
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the bill was rejected.Mr. MELLETT gave notice of his intention to
                                move to reconsider this vote. 
                        
                        
                            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
                            Mr. EDWARDS, (the order of business having been suspended for the
                                purpose,) presented the memorial of sundry citizens of Indiana,
                                interested in the Wabash and Erie Canal, adopted by a public meeting
                                of delegates convened in the town of Indianapolis on the 1st day of
                                February, 1859, signed by M. W. Foster, President, and Joseph
                                Ristine, Secretary.
                            Mr. USREY moved its reference to the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions.
                            Mr. HARNEY desired the direct question on indefinite
                                postponement.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY would rather make it a special order for to-morrow
                                week.
                            Mr. HAMILTON did not believe that the petition fairly represented the
                                wishes of the people all along the line of the canal.
                            Mr. EDWARDS had presented the memorial without knowing what it
                                proposed or thinking what should be the action of the Legislature.
                                But he knew that citizens of the State have a right to be heard
                                here, and that it is our duty to give them a respectful hearing. The
                                gentlemen composing this Convention were men of influence and
                                character and credit in the State; and he thought it no more than
                                proper and respectful that the petition should be made a part of the
                                special order for next Friday - the day set apart for the
                                consideration of Mr. Murray's resolution on the same subject.
                                Certainly the right of petition should be respected as far as this.
                                He knew not what action he should himself take upon this subject,
                                and desired to be still further advised and informed of the matter.
                                He desired to say that whilst he was not ready to vote for taking
                                back the canal he was also unwilling to see the property of citizens
                                of the State of Indiana depreciated or lost by the abandonment of
                                the canal. The property of our citizens along the canal had already
                                depreciated twenty per cent. He could not be indifferent to this;
                                and it was a proper subject for the consideration of the
                                Legislature. Several public meetings have been held and one  was prosed to be held in Vigo
                                county to-morrow, upon this matter, and if his constituents were to
                                petition upon the subject, he expected that they would be heard. He
                                was astonished to hear gentlemen declare themselves ready to refuse
                                to hear this petition.
                            Mr. COLLIER made an ineffectual motion to lay the memorial on the
                                table, until others might be received.
                            Mr. GIFFORD was opposed to taking any action, giving out a desire to
                                retract or take back the contract with the bond holders, or making
                                even the smallest appropriation to keep up the canal. He lived along
                                the White Water Canal, and when they suffered from floods on account
                                of it they looked only to parties interested for the proper
                                correction. We might have come up with just as pitiful a
                                statement.
                            Mr. EDWARDS alleged that this was not a parallel case.
                            Mr. RITTER. Why don't these people go to the bondholders?
                            Mr. EDWARDS. If bondholders refuse to keep up the canal, he would
                                have legislation, which would enable the people interested to keep
                                it up, &c.
                            Mr. HUNTER, If the State has no power over this canal, why do these
                                people come here? If the bondholders really wish it, let private
                                en-terprize take it up. He regarded this as an entering wedge
                                looking to taking back this canal. We could as well vote relief to
                                any other suffering party in the State as to listen to the prayer of
                                these petitioners, &c. These bondholders have petitioned for
                                relief, because they say the railroads chartered by the State have
                                destroyed their canal. We do not listen to them, and they come with
                                more reason than these citizens of Indiana.
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD demanded the previous question, and under its force,
                                the memorial was indefinitely postponed - yeas 53, nays 14.
                            Mr. CLAYPOOL, by unanimous consent, explained, that there never had
                                been a petition presented here, since he had been a member, without
                                a respectful hearing. This involved a question of great interest to
                                his constituents, and he should vote against postponing , because he
                                considered the postponement of this would prevent the subject from
                                being brought up hereafter. Observing the House impatient, he voted
                                "no."
                            Mr. GRIFFIN, by unanimous consent, said: Whilst I would vote against
                                granting the prayer of the petitioners, I can not vote to postpone,
                                on account of views of their right to a fair hearing.
                            So the memorial was indefinitely postponed.
                            Mr. KEMPF obtained leave of absence till Monday.
                            The House then (at 5:20 o'clock) adjourned. 
                        

                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             FRIDAY, February 4, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            BANK OF THE STATE OF INDIANA
                            Mr. WAGNER moved to postpone the order of business to enable the
                                Senate to proceed with the discussion of the repeal of the Bank
                                charter.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, a call of the Senate was had. Eleven
                                Senators being reported as absent, on motion, further proceedings in
                                the call were suspended.
                            The yeas and nays were demanded on the motion to postpone the order
                                of business, and being ordered and taken, resulted - yeas 33, nays
                                6.
                            So the motion was agreed to, and the Senate proceeded to the
                                consideration of Mr. Conley' bill (S. 42) revealing the charter of
                                the Bank of the State of Indiana - the question being on the
                                adoption of the majority report of select committee to which it had
                                been referred, recommending its passage.
                            Mr. McLEAN contended that we would not properly represent the
                                sovereignty of the people were we to repeal the charter of a bank
                                which is now furnishing us with the best circulating medium we have;
                                and proceeded to read a written speech setting forth his position
                                upon this subject. 
                            Mr. WEIR. Mr. PRESIDENT: l am in favor of the
                                majority report, and hence of the repeal of this charter of
                                monopolies. Democrats here argue that they are in political faith
                                constitutionally and individually opposed to all banks. They argue
                                their theory of opposition, and show themselves practically in favor
                                of bank monopolies, by voting to sustain an institution of this kind
                                without security to bill-holder or depositor, with privileges
                                sufficient to enable them to drive out of existence any banking
                                institution in the State. They can control the entire commercial
                                interest of the State, either furnish or refuse to furnish a
                                currency, as bad as it may be: all is at their option, and the
                                people at their mercy. The free banks offer some security to the
                                bill holder. He argued at some considerable length (for about an
                                hour) the provisions of the charter, noticing sections 15, 20, 86
                                and 91, and argued to show that no great evils would result to the
                                people by its repeal. The circulation of this bank and branches, if
                                drawn in, would be replaced by better. The free banks, driven out of
                                existence by this monopoly, would again resume business, &c.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON hoped it was not the case that Senators wanted to repeal
                                this charter in order to enact another, that they may get pay for
                                it, as they have charged upon other Senators who voted for the
                                charter two years ago. He really hoped no Senator wanted to repeal
                                this charter for the purpose of selling himself out and passing
                                another. The people wanted a currency at the time of the expiration
                                of the old State Bank, and there were men here who were willing to
                                supply this want. He would rather have a State bank that we can rely
                                on than to have shinplaster currency. There was not a man in his
                                district that would not rather have the bills of the Bank of the
                                State of Indiana than any other in the United States, except the
                                Bank of the State of Kentucky. His constituents were satisfied with
                                the bank we have, and he should vote against the repeal.
                            Mr. MURRAY contended that nothing in the details of the bill affected
                                the question, as to the Legislative power to repeal this bank
                                charter. The charges of corruption against the members of the
                                Legislature of 1855, were in a great measure untrue. He was a member
                                of the body in the other end of the Capitol at that time, and voted
                                for the bill, and would do so more readily to-day than he did then.
                                By reading the Proceedings and Debates of the Constitutional
                                Convention, it will be found that it was the intention of the  framers of our State
                                Constitution to create a bank just like the one now in
                                contemplation, when the charter of the old State Bank should expire.
                                He expressed the opinion that the terms of this charter were of the
                                same binding form as a contract. The charter was passed the General
                                Assembly, as the journals of that session will show, and no power
                                can change those journals - the Supreme Court cannot, and he was
                                sure the Legislature of 1859 can not; no General Assembly can
                                vitiate the acts of any former Legislature in which were granted
                                vested rights to individuals or corporations- He was satisfied the
                                Legislature had the power to charter this bank and branches without
                                collateral security - that such a bank has been chartered, and that
                                this Legislature has no power to vitiate it.
                            Mr. STEELE thought at first nothing serious was intended by those who
                                favored repealing the charter, but by the long and earnest
                                discussion that had taken place to-day, he was convinced now that
                                they were in earnest. He was willing to hear them through and let
                                the question be settled, but he denied that the Democracy was
                                against State banking. He said the old State Bank was the legitimate
                                offspring of General Jackson's administration, as he had crushed out
                                the Bank of the United States, and recommended putting the
                                Government deposits in State Banks, Indiana having none, the Jackson
                                Legislature that assembled immediately afterward, established the
                                State Bank.
                            Governor Wright then being the member from Parke, boasted of having
                                assisted in drafting the charter of that institution, took the
                                ground that it was a Jackson measure; and so it was - it went on and
                                fulfilled the object of its mission. The charter being about to
                                expire, the State passed, in '52, a Free Bank law. That law being
                                not sufficiently guarded, an immense number of free banks sprang up.
                                The State, seeing unless an important change could be effected the
                                law would not answer the purpose, in '55 the present charter was
                                passed. His opinion was that the charter would have been a duplicate
                                of the old bank had not the Constitution prevented the State from
                                holding stock. For his own part, he would have been glad if the
                                State could have had stock, the same as in the old, so as to give us
                                in the next twenty years three millions of dollars more to educate
                                the rising generation as the late bank had done.
                            The charter of the new is as near as can be, a complete transcript of
                                the old bank. His opinion was that you might as well try to repeal
                                the charter of the Terre Haute and Richmond Railroad, and tear up
                                the rails, as to take away, at this late day, the franchises and
                                privileges of this institution, given and granted by the
                                Legislature, and sactioned and declared legal and constitutional, by
                                the highest judicial tribunal in our State. He was not here as the
                                interested advocate of this bank for he had no stock in it.
                            How will a repeal effect my constituents? Why, sir, the large surplus
                                products of the Wabash Valley where I live, it takes large amounts
                                of money to move it to market. Where do we get it? We have been in
                                the habit of getting our accommodation at the old bank at Terre
                                Haute. Now that is gone, we go to the same place and to the same
                                banking house, and the same men that conducted the old bank and get
                                those accommodations. I can say that the two counties that I
                                represent have over $100,000 of the $361 ,000 that was discounted in
                                the months of November and December by the branch at Terre Haute,
                                and by them is invested mostly in the article of pork. This money
                                has been scattered wherever there was a fat hog or a bushel of wheat
                                to purchase. The produce dealers have done well, the people have
                                done well; and I have heard of no petition for repeal. I never heard
                                one of my constituents say they desired a repeal of this bank
                                charter.
                            The Senator from Montgomery said : Repeal the charter and the free
                                bank circulation would fill the vacuum at once. Now let us see : The
                                bank of the State has, to-day, five millions of circulation, all the
                                free banks have only one million and that is growing beautifully
                                less every day.
                            Now, sir, the whole free bank circulation would not be more than
                                sufficient to purchase the produce that is shipped at Terre Haute in
                                one year : then where would we get our circulation ? Why, from
                                Michigan, Illinois and Wisconsin. I am for no such circulation, and
                                am distinctly in favor of keeping our banks as they are now, the
                                safest and soundest currency.
                            I want nothing to do and will have nothing to do with any institution
                                that does not pay gold and silver at the counter for its bills: no
                                Senator has denied this bank doing that through the most fiery
                                ordeal any institution ever went through, and when the banks of the
                                great States of Pennsylvania, New York and Virginia had refused.
                                Sir, I shall vote with all my heart against a repeal. 
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION
                            Mr. STUDABAKER, by leave, from a select committee, returned the bill
                                (144), to amend sections 8 and 9 of an act entitled an Act creating
                                the 12th and 13th Judicial Circuits, and providing for the election
                                of Judges thereof, approved February 9, 1855, [fixing the time of
                                holding the courts in the 13th Judicial Circuit], with a substitute
                                therefor, recommending its passage.
                            The report was laid on the table for the present.
                            Mr. WEIR, by leave, presented the memorial of the Sergent-at-Arms of
                                the last regular session of the Senate, praying for compensation for
                                services as such, to the amount of $56, which was referred to the
                                    Committe on Claims.
                            Mr. STEVENS, by leave, offered the following resolution, which was
                                adopted : 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Trustees of the State
                                            University be requested to furnish to this Senate during
                                            its present session, a report of the financial affairs
                                            of that institution, with all other matters that they
                                            may deem of importance to the people of the State.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. SHOEMAKER, his bill (90) to provide for the
                                collection, safekeeping and disbursement of the public money, and
                                fixing the salary of Treasurer of State, was taken from the files
                                and referred to the Committtee on Finance.
                            
                            On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, the bill (144) laid upon the table a few
                                minutes since, was taken therefrom, read through the third time, and
                                finally passed the Senate by yeas 34, nays 0.

                            
                                BANK OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
                                The Senate resumed the consideration of Mr. Conley's bill (42)
                                    repealing the charter of the Bank of the State of Indiana.
                                Mr. STEVENS said gentlemen had been quoting the opinions of men
                                    of other ages on the question now before us, but he thought such
                                    opinions could not be brought to bear with any effect upon the
                                    bill under consideration. We now have a circulating medium that
                                    the people throughout the length and breadth of the State are
                                    satisfied with. If we repeal this charter the whole country will
                                    be flooded with the paper of eastern banks that we know but
                                    little about. He would not blame any Senator who was in favor of
                                    hard currency if he were to vote against such a charter as this
                                    upon its introduction in the Legislature, but now, as it has
                                    been passed, he believed it would be impolitic and ruinous to
                                    vote for its repeal. He had never heard of any petitions coming
                                    up here asking for the repeal of this charter; he had never
                                    heard a single voter murmur on account of it, and he did not
                                    believe there were 500 in the whole State that would ask for a
                                    repeal of this charter.
                                Mr. MARCH then occupied the floor in a speech of nearly two
                                    hours. He argued in favor of the passage of the bill, and
                                    earnestly and ably battled against the arguments advanced by
                                    Senators on the other side of the question. He did not look upon
                                    this bank charter in the light of a contract; but admitting, for
                                    the sake of argument that it was, he contended it was obtained
                                    by fraud, and the contract thereby vitiated. He cited many
                                    passages from Chief Justice Marshall and Chief Justice Taney's
                                    decisions, from Kent's Commentaries, the Indiana and Ohio
                                    Reports, and other authorities, supporting his views upon this
                                    question.
                                Mr. HEFFREN obtained the floor, and after a few remarks in
                                    opposition to the bill, gave way for a recess till 7 o'clock p.
                                    m.

                            
                        
                        
                             NIGHT SESSION.
                            Mr. HEFFREN continued his remarks in opposition to the proposition
                                for the repeal of the charter of the Bank of the State of Indiana
                                speaking from 7 o'clock till 8:15.
                            Mr. WAGNER followed in a speech of three-quarters of an hour, taking
                                the same view of the question.
                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        

                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             FRIDAY, February 4, 1859. 
                        
                        Messrs. Summers, Stanfield, Nelson and Shull had leave of absence till
                            Tuesday. 
                        
                            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
                            Mr. EDWARDS submitted the following, which was ordered to go upon the
                                Journal:

                            PROTEST
                            MR. SPEAKER: The undersigned protest against the
                                action of this House, in voting on yesterday to indefinitely
                                postpone the consideration of a memorial adopted at a convention of
                                a portion of the people of the State of Indiana, asking some action
                                to be taken with reference to the protection of their property and
                                interests connected with the Wabash and Erie Canal, and assign for
                                their dissent the following reasons:
                            First. That the question to indefinitely postpone was unparliamentary
                                and improper.
                            Second. That it was a denial of the right of petition in refusing to
                                receive, consider and answer, through an appropriate committee or
                                otherwise, what honorable and intelligent citizens had asked in
                                respectful language af the hands of the General Assembly, to-wit:
                                The protection of their private property from injury, by reason of
                                the threatened or probable abandonment of the Wabash and Erie
                                Canal.
                            Third. That this House had referred for consideration to be had on
                                the 11th instant, as a special order, a certain preamble and
                                resolutions, adverse to the interests sought to be protected by the
                                memorialists, and refused to them a like respect.
                            Fourth. The memorial was presented on behalf of a convention composed
                                of citizens, as before described,speaking for themselves and for not
                                less than one-third of the population, territory and taxables of the
                                State.
                            Fifth. That the question to indefinitely postpone the memorial, being
                                unparliamentary and without precedent, when voted upon, was stated,
                                over objections made in a form not authorized, as follows, viz: "The
                                question is to in-definitely postpone the memorial, and the whole subject it refers to."
                            Sixth. That although the members of this House,heretofore had very
                                properly and judiciously declared unanimously,"that it would be
                                inexpedient and unwise to take back the Wabash and Erie Canal upon
                                any terms, or to reassume in any form the debt to satisfy which it
                                was transferred to the bondholders," yet they refused to consider
                                the prayer of the taxpayers and citizens, asking humbly and
                                respectfully for legal authority to protect them in their rights and
                                property, when their interests are the most wholesome and necessary
                                for the public good.
                            Seventh. That the questions set forth in the memorial may involve the
                                rights and interests of a sovereign and neighboring State, which
                                undertook, at the request of the General Assembly of this State, and
                                constructed that portion of the Wabash and Erie Canal lying and
                                being within the State of Ohio, and it may thereby be treating with
                                discourtesy, and the want of comity, an independent Commonwealth,
                                which has always acted with friendly sentiments toward the authority
                                and people of Indiana.
                            Eighth. It is alleged, in the memorial, that there are citizens of
                                Indiana, who hold leases of water power from the State, dated long
                                before the canal passed into the hands of the Trustees, and it is a
                                legal question of much importance, as they ask to be protected, to
                                determine what their rights and interests are; what the duty and
                                liability of the State? And after that consideration, to act
                                deliberately in the honorable discharge of legislative duty, without
                                sensitive fear, particularly when this House was, in advance,
                                pledged against any act by which the canal should be taken back, or
                                the debt for which it was surrendered reassumed.
                            Believing that it was the duty of the House to have treated the
                                memorial with proper respect; to have refused, in a courteous and
                                parliamentary manner any prayer it might contain, which, in the calm
                                judgment of representatives, should be inconsistent with public
                                policy, the undersigned will ever protest.
                            Wm. K. Edwards, Aquilla Nebeker,
                            James E. Blythe, George W. Massey,
                            William Smith,S. Wheeler,
                            John Comstock,Nelson McLain,
                            R. A. Clements,S. H. Johnston, 
                            H.R. Claypool

                            Mr. Major, Mr. Colgrove, Mr. Bowman, Mr. Shull, Mr. Waterman, Mr.
                                Wildman, Mr. Boyd, Mr. Keefer, Mr. Austin, Mr. Eastham, Mr. Prosser
                                and Mr. Parrett asked, and obtained leave to record their votes in
                                favor of indefinite postponement of the memorial of citizens of
                                Indiana along the line of the Wabash and Erie Canal.
                            Mr. STANFIELD and Mr. MELLETT had leave to record their votes in the
                                negative on the same matter.
                            Mr. POWER had leave to change his vote to the negative.
                            
                            Mr. JORDON moved to reconsider the vote of yesterday to indefinitely
                                postpone this memorial.
                            Mr. LAWHEAD made a speech in favor of reconsideration, on the
                                principle of justice and the right of petition - not that he
                                expected under any circumstances to vote to take back or to vote
                                anything toward keeping up the canal.
                            Mr. STANFIELD concurred in the general view of Mr. Lawhead. They were
                                both out of the neighborhood of the canal. But he was not fearful to
                                meet the question fairly, and desired to treat these petitioners
                                respectfully. And if there was any legislation wanting that would
                                enable the people along the line of the canal to keep it up and
                                preserve their property from depreciation, he was in favor of it.
                                Not that he would vote this burden upon the tax-payers, but if the
                                bondholders were willing to lease the work, &c., he would be
                                willing to do anything in the matter that would allow the State to
                                remain secure against the resumption of the canal debt, or any part
                                of it. He hoped the vote would be reconsidered.
                            Mr. DOBBINS knew what was the force of the outside influence
                                yesterday for this petition. Threats were made if the petitioners
                                were not heard. He obeyed the voice of his constituents when he
                                refused to touch the unclean thing. But the petition had a
                                respectful hearing, &c.
                            Mr BLYTHE entered his protest distinctly against the issue which Mr.
                                Hunter presented yesterday. It was not in this question whether we
                                will take back or sustain the canal or not, and gentlemen doubtless
                                had voted as though that had been the issue. But no such issue was
                                in fact presented. Though as much as any interested, yet he had
                                voted and stated, that in no event would he vote to take back that
                                canal. If gentlemen could make up their judgment at once upon the
                                legal questions presented in that memorial, they were very far in
                                advance of him in the capacity and powers of their judgment. What
                                was the legal position of the bondholders' right of possession to
                                that canal? - to whom did it belong? Why had we just elected a
                                resident Trustee to take care of the interests of the State in the
                                canal? Why did the State reserve the right of redeeming the canal?
                                What interests would be depreciated by giving up the canal to the
                                muskrats? What of the damages to be sustained on account of the
                                failure of water power leased by the State to our citizens? Could
                                any gentleman render a good reason why the consideration of this
                                memorial should not be postponed? He was unwilling to treat any
                                memorial with disrespect, and it did seem to him that the treatment
                                of this memorial was disrespectful.
                            Mr. COLGROVE. The people had determined to cut loose from this work.
                                It was a part of that mammoth system of Internal Improvements
                                inaugurated by insane men. Before the State had completed this work,
                                she found herself fourteen millions indebted, and she was reckoned
                                among the non paying States; and the Legislature was besieged,to
                                take the work off our hands. After the State had authorized a system
                                of railroads, these bondholders, by William L. Dayton, claimed that
                                we had acted in bad faith by so doing, and ought to take the canal
                                back,which they had so long importuned us to give up. His party, and
                                all parties had made their representatives swear not to take back
                                the canal and involve the people again in the obligation to pay
                                those six millions of debt, which their bondholders released. The
                                State was no longer proprietor of the canal, and could not be made
                                liable for damages on account of water power leased since the canal
                                was transferred. He gave notice of his intention, on some future
                                day, to introduce a bill, forever relinquishing to the the
                                bondholders the whole of the State's interest in the canal.
                            Mr. BLYTHE. If the subject be now indefinitely postponed, he
                                suggested whether it would be competent for the gentleman to
                                introduce a bill on the subject.
                            Mr. COLGROVE. He would risk it. We were safe now, and he desired to
                                continue so. Of course he intended nothing disrespectful to these
                                petitioners.
                            Mr. MELLET should not vote appropriations in this matter. His
                                constituents were against it. But here was a case of the right of
                                petition. The petition was read, but it was late in the day, and in
                                the eagerness to adjourn, no man could pretend to understand and
                                consider it from that reading. The true position of gentlemen was,
                                that it was dangerous to hear the petition. They were afraid that
                                truth and right were on the part of the memorialists. Gentlemen
                                should keep cool, and they would last longer. He defended the right
                                of petition as a principle, and that principle demanded here a
                                considerate and intelligent vote. It was like the vote of yesterday
                                upon the bill (196) to give negroes the right to testify, and he
                                thought gentlemen would have time enough to regret their
                                discourteous vote against that proposition.
                            Mr. ROBINSON was in the Legislature when the contract with the
                                bondholders was made. They took the work for half the State debt -
                                took it wholly - leaving no interest in it in the State's hands and
                                many found it difficult to reconcile the minds of their constituents
                                to this action. He moved to lay the motion to reconsider on the
                                table.
                            The motion to reconsider was laid upon the table by yeas 61, nays 25,
                                as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Bowman, Boyd,
                                            Boxley, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark, Clayton, Colgrove,
                                            Cotton, Dobbins, Dougherty, Devol, Early, Eastham,
                                            Firestone, Fordyce, Gifford, Gregory, Hall of Grant,
                                            Hamilton of Boone, Hamilton of Wayne, Hancock, Harney,
                                            Hartley, Hunter, Jeffries, Jones, Jordan, Keefer,
                                            Kelley, Lewis, Major, Mansfield, Merrifield, Martin,
                                            Nelson. Newton, Parrett, Prosser, Ritter, Robinson,
                                            Rynerson, Sherman, Shields, Shockley, Shull, Smith of
                                            Perry, Snyder, Stanley, Sullivan, Thompson ef Madison,
                                            Treadway, Turpie,Usrey, Waterman, Whetzel, Whiteman,
                                            Wiidman Wood and Mr. Speaker - 61.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Baird, Blythe, Carr,.
                                            Claypool, Clements, Collier, Comstock, Edwards, Griffin,
                                            Johnston, Knowlton, Lawhead, McLain, Massey, Mellett,
                                            Miller, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Parks,
                                            Power, Scott, Smith of Miami, Stanfield, Thompson of
                                            Elkhart and Wheeler - 25.
                                        
                                            Present and refusing to vote - Messrs.
                                            Branham, Davis and Stiles.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. STILES rose to a question of privilege, and called attention to
                                the rule refusing to allow a gentleman to explain his vote. At the
                                other end of the Capitol when a gentleman's name is called he rises
                                and explains without leave.
                            
                            The SPEAKER. Explanations are permitted by an express rule of the
                                Senate.
                            Mr. STILES. Then at the proper time I shall introduce an order
                                adopting a similar rule to that of the Senate. I think it is proper
                                that a member should have this privilege. I have desired it myself
                                to-day, but gentlemen saw proper to refuse. No man can be more
                                opposed to taking back the Wabash and Erie Canal than I, and when
                                the time comes no man will vote louder or stronger against it.
                            The SPEAKER. The gentleman can set himself right on the journal by
                                protest.

                        
                        
                             REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES
                            By Mr. MELLETT: (Judiciary)returning the bill (88)
                                to amend the 531st section of the practice act of June 18, 1852,
                                recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. PARRETT: (Judiciary)returning Mr. Jones'
                                bill (105) compelling owners of town lots to grade and pave their
                                side-walks, recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            He also returned Mr. Boyd's bill (62) to amend the 3d section of the
                                Recorder's act of May 31, 1852, recommending indefinite
                                postponement, which was concurred in.
                            Mr. STILES, from the same committee, returned Mr. Cotton's bill (-)
                                to provide for and secure the rights of married women in real
                                estate, recommending indefinite postponement.
                            Also, Mr. Hartley's bill (84) to amend the 10th and 13th sections of
                                the Justices' act of June 9, 1852, with "inasmuch as the House has
                                con eurred in a report from the Committee on the
                                    Organization of Courts on the same subject; the
                                committee recommend that the bill be indefinitely postponed."
                            Also, Mr. EDWARDS' bill (99) authorizing the publication of certain
                                decisions of the Supreme Court and the purchase of 600 copies
                                thereof by the State, with the expression of opin ion that
                                legislation thereon is inexpedient.
                            These several reports were concurred in.
                            Mr. MELLET, from the same committee, returned Mr. Jeffries' bill
                                (302) authorizing travel to worship on the Lord's Day, free of toll;
                                recommending indefinite postponement.
                            The House refused to concur in this report and the bill was ordered
                                to be engrossed.
                            Mr. BAIRD, Mr. SCOTT and Mr. RITTER hoped the report would not be
                                concurred in, stating the sole provision of the bill to be, that
                                before the execution defendant shall have the benefit of exemption,
                                he shall make out under oath and deliver to the sheriff, an
                                inventory of all his property; and they reasoned at some length in
                                favor of it, as a measure eminently favorable to honest, poor
                                debtors.
                            Mr. MELLETT sustained the report. There was already upon the Statute
                                Book a much better provision to catch the rascally debtor than this
                                bill proposes. You can call him into Court and if he denies, prove
                                it on him, imprison him.
                            Mr. HARNEY. The bill was only supplementary. It repealed nothing. He
                                desired engrossment.
                            Mr. BAIRD. The cases of citation to Court were very rare.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. PARRETT, from the same committee returned the joint resolution
                                for amendment of the Constitution so as to allow two county offices
                                to be held by the same person, with a motion that the same be laid
                                on the table, which was concurred in.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Hamilton, of Boone's, bill
                                (64) to prevent the destruction of wild game, &c., with
                                amendments, changing dates.
                            The report was concurred in and the amendments adopted.
                            Mr. TURPIE moved to refer the bill to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary. That committee had this whole matter now
                                before them, and a report would be made during the present week upon
                                all the bills introduced on that subject.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, while he was in favor of repealing this law,
                                he saw in many sections of the State opposition to repeal, and this
                                amendment of the law cured its defects, allowing farmers to protect
                                their growing crop, and repealing the bribe to informers.
                            Mr. TURPIE wished a reference, in order that the action might be
                                consistent. He should first vote to repeal, and then for the
                                committee's bill.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, was not willing to refer.
                            Mr. Turpie's motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN, from same committee, returned Mr. Whetzel's bill (124),
                                to prohibit the throwing of dead animals into running streams,
                                &c., with an amendment providing that if any person shall
                                deposit dead animals in any running stream or water or lake of this
                                State, or on the banks of the same, so as to vitiate the waters
                                thereof, on conviction thereof, he shall be fined in any sum not
                                less than $5, nor more than $20.
                            The amendment was adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK, from the Committee on Roads,
                                returned Mr. Robinson's bill (49) to authorize the Boards of County
                                Commissioners thereon to reduce the width of the Michigan Road,
                                recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK, from the same committee, returned Mr. Massey's bill
                                (77) revising the general Supervisors' act, and repealing
                                conflicting laws, with an amendment in section 19 striking out "15
                                cents" and inserting "not less than 5 nor more than 20 cents," and
                                by adding:
                            "Provided, however, That the tax so assessed on
                                real estate may be worked out in the road district where said real
                                estate lies, and the tax assessed on personal property in the
                                district where the owner thereof resides, at the rate of 75 cents
                                per day. The supervisor shall obtain a list of all road tax assessed
                                on each individual, and his certificate for the amount worked out
                                shall be taken by the Treasurer of the county in payment of said
                                tax."
                            The committee also recommended that Mr. Hall of Rush's bill (53) on
                                the same subject be laid on the table.
                            These reports were concurred in, and the bill (77) was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON proposed to amend by striking out $1 25 and inserting
                                $1, which was adopted by consent.
                            
                            Mr. WATERMAN proposed to amend so as to require all road tax to be
                                worked out on orbefore the 15th day of August of each year.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. Inasmuch as amendments were still offered, and this
                                was a bill revising the road law, and inasmuch as the
                                    Committee on County and Township Business
                                have a bill remodeling the mode of doing township business so that
                                there shall be but, one Trustee, it seemed to him that this bill had
                                better be laid on the table till that committee report their bill,
                                in order that the two bills may be made to harmonize.
                            The motion to lay on the table was agreed to.
                            Mr. EARLY, from the Committee on Corporations
                                returned his bill (72) to amend sections 1 and 2 of the act allowing
                                compensation for animals killed by railroad cars, amending the act
                                of March 1, 1853, with an amendment striking out these words: "and
                                shall not exceed $100."
                            The amendment was adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. BOXLEY, from the Committee on Agriculture, returned the petition
                                in regard to certain stock running at large, and reported a bill
                                (198) to prohibit the owners or those having the management and
                                control of certain animals (bulls, boars or rams) from allowing the
                                same to run at large, and prescribing penalty therefor, which was
                                passed be first reading.
                            Mr. HARRISON, from the  Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Mr. Johnson's bill (87) to amend
                                sections 5, 6, 18, and repeal section 8 of the act of May 6, 1852,
                                with an amendment by way of substitute:
                            The amendment provides that the County Commissioners may change
                                township boundaries; declaring each township to be a body politic;
                                the quallified voters shall elect one township trustee, who shall
                                execute a bond in the sum of $300; vacancies shall be filled by the
                                County Commissioners; trustee shall act as inspector of elections,
                                overseer of the poor; fence viewer; have the control of schools;
                                have the care of highways and bridges; fill vacancies in the office
                                of supervisor, and perform all duties required now by law of the
                                township trustees; shall receive commutation money from supervisors;
                                shall keep a record of his official proceedings; shall be allowed
                                $1,25 per day for the time he is actually engaged, and shall be
                                allowed the same by the County Commissioners. The County Treasurer
                                shall be treasurer of the several townships. Township trustee shall
                                have power to administer oaths, &c.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone. Ten dollars a year would not pay the trustee
                                for the duties imposed on him.
                            The SPEAKER. That is not in the bill.
                            The report was concurred in and the amendment adopted.
                            Mr. KEEFER moved to lay the bill on the table and that 200 copies be
                                printed.
                            Mr. HARNEY. If printed it should have an amended title.
                            The motion was agreed to and the printing ordered.
                            Mr. HARRISON proposed to amend the title as follows: "An act for the
                                creation of townships; prescribing the manner of electing a trustee;
                                mode of assessing township tax and doing township business; defining
                                the powers and duties of the trustee, and requiring the transfer of
                                the moneys, books and property of the township to the proper
                                officer."
                            The SPEAKER. That could not be done at this stage of the bill. 
                        
                        
                            AMENDMENT OF THE RULES.
                            Mr. STILES submitted the following amendment of the rules of the
                                House of Representatives.
                            "Any member may make a brief verbal explanation of his vote on the
                                question before the House, but shall not occupy more than ten
                                minutes in such explanation." 
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS - UNDER SUSPENSION OF ORDER.
                            By Mr. POWER: (199) to create the 14th Judicial Circuit and to fix
                                the time of holding the Courts therein: (Counties of Kosciusko,
                                Elk-hart, Lagrange, Steuben, DeKalb and Noble.)
                            By Mr. KEEFER: (200) for the punishment of any officer, agent,
                                servant, clerk or carrier, secreting or converting to his own use
                                any moneys, goods, rights or securities entrusted to him: [Felony,
                                fine and imprisonment.]
                            By Mr. Usrey: (201) to amend section 78 of the act dividing the State
                                into counties, and defining the jurisdiction of those bordering on
                                the Ohio and Wabash rivers:
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading.
                            Mr. HAMILTON'S bill (20) to prevent carrying concealed weapons,
                                (except travelers,) and providing punishment therefor, coming up in
                                order, was passed the final reading in the House of Representatives
                                - yeas 71, nays 1.
                            Mr. Stanfield's bill (3) to amend the section 302 of the practice act
                                of June 18, 1852, so as to allow the plaintiffs and co-defendants to
                                testify in certain cases, was passed the final readingyeas 69, nays
                                0.
                        
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. SULLIVAN moved to reconsider the vote of this day laying the bill
                                (87) from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business on the table, and ordering the printing of
                                the same.
                            Mr HANCOCK favored the motion, from the consideration that the
                                importance of the subject demanded immediate action.
                            The vote was reconsidered - yeas 48, nays 20.
                            Mr. SULLIVAN moved to refer the bill to a select committee of five,
                                which the SPEAKER makes to consist of Messrs. Sullivan, Johnston,
                                Blythe, Mellett and Harrison.

                            
                                BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                Mr. Mellett's bill (19) making it a felony for any trustee,
                                    agent, &c., to make any false entry or record, coming up on
                                    the third reading, on his motion it was laid on the table.
                                Mr. Brotherton's bill (39) to amend the 37th section of chapter
                                    6, vol. 2 of the Revised Statutes of 1852[of shows, sales,
                                    &c., at Agricultural Fairs, &c.] - coming up - 
                                Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, considered that the bill covered too much
                                    ground It was not good policy to restrict things in themselves
                                    not offensive and wrong.
                                Mr. CAVINS. It was similar to a provision of law enacted in 1853,
                                    but which was declared an constitutional on account of a
                                    technical difficulty in the title. He spoke of the provision
                                    with reference to hawking and selling about Camp-meetings. It
                                    excludes everything of the sort within two miles, unless
                                    permitted by those controlling the meeting.
                                
                                Mr. WHITEMAN. The object was to give those having the management
                                    of those meeting the entre control of these matters.
                                The bill failed on the final reading in the House - yeas 49, nays
                                    28.
                                Mr. Sherman's bill (168) to amend the act authorizing railroad,
                                    turnpike and other road companies and companies for the
                                    manufacture of rail road and other iron, to borrow money on
                                    mortgage, coming up - 
                                Mr. TURPIE stated the object to be to allow manufacturing
                                    companies to borrow money at a greater rate of interest than the
                                    legal rate in Indiana, from any source without the State o
                                    Indiana. There was in this bill, he considered evidence of the
                                    prosperity of the manufacturing interests of the State; and
                                    though he had uniformly voted against any increase of the legal
                                    rate of interest, he saw no objection to this bill.
                                The bill passed the House of Representatives by yeas 51, nays 27
                                    - as follows: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Boxley, Branham,
                                                Carr, Cavins, Clark, Clayton, Clements, Comstock,
                                                Dobbins, Firestone, Gifford, Gregory Griffin, Hall
                                                of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton of Wane, Hancock,
                                                Harney, Harrison, Hartley, Hunter, Jeffries,
                                                Johnston, Jordan, Knowlton, Lewis, McLain,
                                                Mansfield, Mellet, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of
                                                Warren, Newton, Parks, Parrett, Power, Prosser,
                                                Ritter, Sherman, Smith of Miami, Snyder, Sullivan,
                                                Thompson of Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Treadway,
                                                Turpie, Usrey Whetzel, Whiteman, Williams and Mr.
                                                Speaker - 51.
                                            NAYS -Messrs. Austin, Blythe,
                                                Brotherton, Claypool, Collier, Cotton, Dougherty,
                                                Devol, Early, Eastham, Edwards, Fordyce, Hamilton of
                                                Boone, Jones, Keefer,Kelly, Major, Massey, Martin,
                                                Nelson, Rynerson, Scott, Shields Shockley, Stiles,
                                                Waterman and Wood - 27. 
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. Tread way's bill (50) to amend the 31st section ot the
                                    Supervisor's act of June 18, 1852, coming up, on motion by Mr.
                                    Harney, it was laid on the table.
                                Mr. Harney's bill (57) to amend the 74th section of the act of
                                    June 17,1852, so as to suppress gambling establishments, was
                                    passed the final reading in the House of Representatives - yeas
                                    67, nays 3.
                                Mr. Prosser's bill (95) to legalize the location, vacation and
                                    change of public highways in this State, was passed the third
                                    reading in the House of Representatives - yeas 57, nays 19.
                                Mr. Harrison's bill (59, which heretofore failed for want of a
                                    constitutional majority) to extend time to the borrowers of the
                                    sinking fund(till 1864,) coming up - 
                                Mr. HARRISON moved to recommit the bill with instructions to
                                    amend the bill "so as to make its provisions apply simply to
                                    loans of $500 and under."
                                Mr. SMITH, of Perry, had found that this fund had been loaned to
                                    the" extent of $301,628 33, and the smallest individual loan of
                                    this amount was $1,975. These loans were made some years ago,
                                    under a different construction of the law from that which
                                    obtains at present. He considered it now time that these heavier
                                    borrowers should be reminded of their debt, by a call of perhaps
                                    ten per cent, every six months.
                                Mr STILES concurred.
                                The motion to recommit with instructions was agreed to.
                                Mr. Stanfield's bill (79) requiring counties from which a change
                                    of venue has been taken, to pay expenses of trial, was passed
                                    the final reading in the House of Representative - yeas 54, nays
                                    8.
                                Mr. Waterman's bill (52) providing for the election and
                                    qualification of assessors, [requiring county assessors instead
                                    of township assessors] was rejected on the final reading - yeas
                                    32, nays 38.
                                Mr. Harney'sbill (16) to amend the 2d section of the misdemeanor
                                    act of June 14, 1857 as amended March 7, 1857(for the
                                    suppression of lotteries) was passed the final reading in the
                                    House of Representatives - yeas 73, nays 2.
                                On motion by Mr. MELLETT, the House took up the bill (S. 44) to
                                    amend sections 8 and 9 of the act of February 9, 1855, creating
                                    the 12th and and 13th Judicial Circuits, so as to fix again the
                                    times of holding the Circuit Court in the 13th Judicial Circuit,
                                    was taken up, and (under a dispensation) passed the first and
                                    second reading, and referred to a select committee of five,
                                    which the SPEAKER makes to consist of Messrs. Mellett, Jeffries,
                                    Colgrove, Whiteman and Scott.
                                On motion by Mr. POWER, (under a dispensation of the rules,) his
                                    bill (199) to create the 14th Judicial Circuit, was taken up,
                                    passed two readings, and on motion by Mr. EDWARDS, referred to
                                    Messrs. Power, Stanley, Usrey, Thompson, of Elkhart, Wildman,
                                    Whiteman, Clark and Davidson.
                                On motion by Mr. FIRESTONE, (under a dispensation) the bill (S.
                                    84) fixing the times of holding the Court of Common Pleas in
                                    Huntington county, &c., was taken up, passed the first and
                                    second readings.
                                The bill (S. 131) to amend sections 207, 208 of the practice act
                                    of June 18, 1852, so as to authorize a change of venue in
                                    certain cases, was taken up and passed the first reading. 

                            
                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                Mr. Stanfield's bill (169) for the relief of the heirs of John
                                    Coran, was considered and referred to the Committee on
                                        the Judiciary - together with Mr. Edward's bill
                                    (135) and Mr. Black's bill (148.)
                                Mr. Colgrove's bill (130) was referred to the Committee
                                        on Roads.
                                Mr. Boyd's bill, (197) coming up - 
                                Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, moved to refer to the Committee on Rights
                                    and Privileges. It compels the supervisor to serve without pay
                                    for a year and then only have a credit for service.
                                Mr. BOYD. The bill provides that, except in counties where they
                                    assess a road tax.
                                On the motion of Mr. COMSTOCK, it was laid on the tableto be
                                    considered with another similar bill.
                                Mr. Davis' bill (142) reimbursing damages under the
                                    administration of the liquor law of 855, was referred to the
                                        Committee on the Judiciary - together
                                    with Mr. Cotton's bill (137,) Mr. Davis' bills (138, 139 and 152
                                    ) also Mr. Edwards' bill (141.)
                                Mr. Boyd's bill (136) was referred to the Committee on
                                        Rights and Privileges.
                                Mr. Parks' bill (140) was referred to the Committee on
                                        Corporations - also Mr. Snyder's bill (144.)
                                Mr. Eastham's bill (154) to fix Court time in he 3d Circuit, was
                                    referred to a committee of 
                                    elevenone from each county in the said third - Judicial Circuit,
                                    namely: Messrs. Smith, of Perry, Jones, Eastham, Parrett, Kempf,
                                    Blythe, Dobbins, Woods, Nelson, Massey and Clements.
                                Mr. Hamilton, of Boone's bill (143) was referred to a select
                                    committee of five, viz: Messrs. (Hamilton, of Boone, Prosser,
                                    Harrison, Boyd and Snyder.
                                Messrs. Jordan, Boyd, Clements and Fordyce had leave of absence
                                    till Monday.
                                The House then (at 5 o'clock) adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE
                        
                             SATURDAY, February 6, 1859. 
                        
                        THE SINKING FUND LOANS.
                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate a
                            communication from Colonel E. Dumont, President of the Sinking Fund, in
                            answer to a resolution of the Senate, inquiring how much of said fund
                            has been lost by insecure loans or by other manner, and the aggregate
                            amount thatis now loaned in each county in this State, which,
                        On motion by Mr. CARNAHAN, was laid onthe table and 500 copies ordered to
                            be printed.

                         This communication shows a loss of $5,814 03 to the Sinking Fund, from
                            the sale of real estate mortgaged (many years ago) to the fund for less
                            than the principal due on said mortgages; and a loss of $166 35 on
                            counterfeit, uncurrent and depreciated money, but that these losses have
                            been mere than counterbalanced by the five per cent. damages which the
                            law authorizes to be charged in case of soles, amounting to $8,560 11,
                            or $2,740 08 more than the losses on mortgage sales.
                        It gives, also, the following aggregate of loans lathe several counties
                            of the State:
                        
                            
                                Allen............$29,350 00
                                Laporte....... 24,724 90
                            
                            
                                Adams.......... 1,325 00
                                Lagrange........ 3,500 00
                            
                            
                                 Boone........... 23,663 08
                                Lake.......... 2,422 47
                            
                            
                                Brown....... 15,475 00
                                Lawrence ..... 2,415 00
                            
                            
                                Bartholomew.... 22,900 05
                                Marion ....... 322,274 21
                            
                            
                                Benton.......... 25,510 00 
                                Martin........ 648 72
                            
                            
                                 Blackford....... 7,700 00
                                Miami ........ 6,200 00 
                            
                            
                                Clinton......... 56,228 96
                                Morgan....... 24,821 53
                            
                            
                                Cass............ 14,021 65
                                Monroe....... 11,069 00 
                            
                            
                                Clay.......... 8,443 93
                                Montgomery... 10,778 00
                            
                            
                                 Crawford....... 1,000 00 
                                Madison .... : 29,927 64
                            
                            
                                Carroll.......... 4,011 34
                                Marshall...... 7,392 91
                            
                            
                                 Clark........... 568 09
                                Noble......... 6,750 00
                            
                            
                                Daviess.......... 521 20 
                                Owen......... 521 35
                            
                            
                                Dearborn........ 30,247 28
                                Ohio.......... 980 00
                            
                            
                                Decatur......... 42,338 29
                                Parke........... 5,200 00
                            
                            
                                 Delaware........ 10,948 56
                                Pulaski........ 10,290 00
                            
                            
                                Elkhart......... 2,950 00
                                Putuam....... 38,163 87
                            
                            
                                Kloyd........... 15,500 00
                                Porter......... 16,490 00
                            
                            
                                Fayette.......... 28,031 34
                                Perry.......... 500 00
                            
                            
                                Fountain........ 11,870 75
                                Rush.......... 38,930 75
                            
                            
                                Fulton.......... 14,391 15
                                Ripley........ 6,530 00
                            
                            
                                 Franklin........ 10,955 87
                                Randolph..... 36,315 13
                            
                            
                                 Grant........... 33,274 15
                                Shelby........ 57,270 36
                            
                            
                                Gibson.......... 1,225 00
                                St.Joseph. ... 4,500 00
                            
                            
                                Greene.......... 12,971 00
                                Steuben........ 9,000 00
                            
                            
                                Henry.......... 14,508 13
                                Starke........ 3,500 0O
                            
                            
                                Hancock ....... 40,822 76
                                Sullivan....... 6 350 00
                            
                            
                                Hamilton........ 30,903 53
                                Scott.......... 2,942 50
                            
                            
                                Hendricks. ..... 24,331 25
                                Switzerland... 5,180 00
                            
                            
                                Howard......... 33,384 25
                                Tippecanoe.... 79,008 22
                            
                            
                                Huntinston ..... 1,250 00
                                Tipton........ 31,357 00
                            
                            
                                 Jefferson........ 62,436 53 
                                Union......... 3,700 00
                            
                            
                                Jackson......... 13,227 64
                                Vigo.......... 17,229 11
                            
                            
                                Jennings........ 3,303 25
                                Vanderburg ... 10,683 57
                            
                            
                                Johnson......... 29,650 00
                                Vermillion.... 600 00
                            
                            
                                Jasper.......... 34,443 96
                                Wayne........ 23,239 75
                            
                            
                                Jay............. 8,020 45
                                White......... 28,818 92
                            
                            
                                Knox........... 5,900 00
                                Warren......: 19,145 99
                            
                            
                                Kosciusko....... 6,058 38
                                Wabash....... 21,550 00
                            
                        
                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore also laid before the Senate a
                            communication from the Auditor of State, in reply to a resolution
                            adopted onthe 19th ultimo, in retation to the State Prisoo expenses, and
                            its financial condition, which was laid on the table. 

                        
                             PETITIONS, MEMORIALS AND REMONSTRANCES.
                            Mr. SLACK presented the memorial of a convention of citizens of the
                                counties of Indiana, along the Wabash and Erie Canal, assembled in
                                Indianapolis on the 1st inst., praying the Legislature to take
                                action in regard to that canal, which was, without reading, referred
                                to the Committee on Canals and Internal
                                    Improvements.
                            Mr. BOBBS presented the petition of John Yount, praying for relief
                                from damages sustained as lessee from the State of certain water
                                privileges on the Central Canal, near Indianapolis, which was
                                referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON presented the petition of John H. Moore, of Putnam
                                county, praying for an allowance of $70 for catching a horse thief,
                                which was referred to the Committee on Claims,
                                without reading.
                            On motion by Mr. LINE, the following, as instructions to the
                                committee to which the petition presented by Mr. Bobbs was referred,
                                was adopted:
                            "That said committee be instructed to inquire to what extent, if any,
                                the said State may be liable in the premises, and report in full in
                                the case."
                            Mr. TURNER presented a memorial from sundry citizens of Lake county,
                                praying the Legislature to make an appropriation out of the Swamp
                                Land Fund of said county, for completing the ditch known as the
                                great Calumet Ditch, which was referred to the Swamp Land
                                    Committee.
                            Mr. HEFFREN presented a petition, asking an allowance of several
                                items which were in the specific appropriation bill as passed the
                                Senate but were left out by the copyists in the House, viz: John L.
                                Spann, $12,50, for witness fees; George Randall and David C. Shanks,
                                $64 each for services as Sergeant-at-arms, and Samuel F. Earns $13,
                                which were referred to the Committee on Finance.
                            
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES
                             Mr. JONES, from the Committee on Claims returned
                                the claim of Henry Right, sheriff, of $126,75, for pursuing a man
                                charged with murder, recommending that it be allowed.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN, from the same committee, returned sundry claims of a
                                late sheriff of Warren county, recommending indefinite
                                postponement.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. KINLEY, from the same committee, returned the claims of Henry M.
                                Graham and Jonathan Barrett, recommending allowance.
                            The report was referred to the Committee on
                                    Finance.
                            Mr. HILL, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned his bill (57), authorizing township trustees to establish
                                ditches and locate water courses in certain cases for the benefit of
                                Agriculture; recommending its passage. The report was concurred in
                                and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. BLAIR, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Senator Hef- -fren'sbill (70) supplemental to the
                                County Prison Act of May 27, 1852, [authorizing County Commissioners
                                to erect workhouses]; recommending indefinite postponement.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the report was not concurred in, and the
                                bill was referred to a select committee, which is made to consist of
                                Senators Heffren, Conner and Hamilton.
                            Mr. STEVENS proposed the following as instructions to this select
                                committee:
                            "Amend by allowing all persons imprisoned on the charge of crime, to
                                work under the provisions of the bill, providing they signify their
                                desire to do so."
                            On Mr. HEFFREN'S motion the proposition was referred to the
                                committee.
                            Mr. STEELE, from the Committee on Banks, returned his bill (69) to
                                prevent the circulation of the withdrawn currency of the State Bank
                                of Indiana; recommending its passage. The report was concurred in
                                and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. ANTHONY, from the State Prison Committee,
                                returned Senator Hill's bill (61) to amend section 3 of the State
                                Prison Act of February 5, 1857; recommending its passage. The report
                                was concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                             The following bills were introduced:
                            By the Temperance Committee, (143) regulating and
                                restricting the sale, bartering or giving away of spirituous or
                                intoxicating liquors.
                            On motion of Mr. GOODING the rules were suspended - yeas 41. nays
                                2and the bill read the second time by title.
                            By the Committee on County and Township Business:
                                (145) to provide for a more uniform mode of doing township
                                business.
                            On motion by Mr. SHOEMAKER, the rules were suspended - yeas 39, nays
                                0 - and the bill read the second time by title.
                            On Mr. McCLURE'S motion, 150 copies were ordered to be printed for
                                the use of the Senate. 
                        
                        
                            TREASURER OF STATE.
                            Mr. SLACK, by leave, offered the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Senate will, the
                                            House concurring therein, appoint a committee of five,
                                            two on the part of the Senate, and three on the part of
                                            the House, to attend and witness the settlement between
                                            the outgoing and incoming Treasurers of State, and the
                                            examination of the money, books, vouchers, bonds, bills,
                                            accounts and every-things connected therewith, and
                                            belonging to said office.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. STUDABAKER opposed the passage of such a resolution, and called
                                upon the author to explain the object of it.
                            Mr. SLACK said it explained itself. The incoming Treasurer had
                                requested him to offer is and he had done so.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER moved to lay it on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. STEVENS offered the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That when the Senate adjourn,
                                            the adjournment shall be until two o'clock on Monday
                                            next. 
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        
                             NEW PROPOSITIONS
                            Mr. CONNER introduced a bill (146) providing for the publication of
                                the laws. It provides - 
                            1. The publication of all acts and j oint resolutions of the General
                                Assembly, which contain an emergency clause, in one weekly newspaper
                                of the several counties of the State in which one is published.
                            2 Such acts and joint resolutions shall be published in the newspaper
                                having the largest circulation in the county where the same is
                                published by one publication the extent of the circulation of the
                                several newspapers to be determined by the Secretary of State, upon
                                the affidavit of one or more of the publishers of the same,
                                transmitted by any such publisher to the office of the Secretary of
                                State.
                            3. The Secretary of State to forward certified copies of such acts
                                and joint resolutions to the publishers of the several papers in
                                which the same are to be published.
                            4. The compensation for publication to be seventy-five cents per
                                square.
                            5. The publishers to make out and file, sworn accounts and vouchers
                                with the Auditor of State, accompanied by copy of paper in which
                                such publication is made: and the Auditor of State is required to
                                draw his warrant upon the Treasury for the amount.
                            The following bills were introduced and severally passed the first
                                reading:
                            By Mr. WAGNER: (147) to distribute the interest and profits arising
                                from the Sinking Fund for the use of the Common Schools of the
                                State.
                            By Mr. McCLURE: (148) to repeal an act to prevent railroad companies
                                from changing their depots, except on conditions therein named, and
                                proved March 4, 1853.
                            By Mr. WALLACE: (149) to organize the militia of the State, classing
                                the same into active and sedentary, &c.
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the rules were suspended - yeas 40, nays 1 -
                                the reading of the entire bill was dispensed with, and it was read
                                by title only.
                            On Mr. WALLACE'S motion the bill was read the second time by title
                                and referred to the Committee on Military Affairs.
                            By Mr. BENNETT: (150) declaring the selling or conveying of land
                                without title a felony.
                            By Mr. COBB: (151) to authorize appeals from the Circuit to the
                                Supreme Court in contested election cases.
                            By Mr. McCLURE: (152) to repeal sec. 5 of an act to authorize
                                railroad companies to consolidate their stock with other
                                railroads.
                            By Mr. THOMPSON: (153) to fix the time of holding the Courts of
                                Common Pleas in De Kalb and Steuben counties.
                            By Mr. JENNINGS: (154) requiring parties in civil suits to advance
                                fees to sheriffs in cases therein specified.
                            By Mr. HILL: (155) to prevent the keeping of tippling, lewd or
                                immoral houses.
                            By Mr. CRAVENS: (156) authorizing purchasers of roads under mortgage
                                sales to organize as incorporated companies.
                            By Mr. HEFFREN: (157) to authorize the Board of Directors of any
                                incorporated company to reduce the amount of their capital stock,
                                &c.
                            By Mr. JONES: (158) concerning the jurisdiction of non-resident
                                defendants in civil actions.
                            By Mr. WAGNER: (159) for the relief of county treasurers who have
                                suffered loss by the depreciation of State stock money, &c.
                            By Mr. WILLIAMS: (160) to amend sec. 4 of an act for the election,
                                fixing the powers and prescribing the duties of Attorney
                                General.
                            By Mr. BLAIR: (161) authorizing married women to dispose of their
                                property, &c.
                            
                            By Mr. TARKINGTON: (162) to amend sec. 84 of an act to repeal all
                                general laws for the incorporation of cities, &c.
                            By Mr. O'BRIEN: (163) granting to Wm. English Rossville, Dearborn
                                county, the State's interest in lot No. 33 in said town; it having
                                accrued to the State by the death of his uncleno heirs appearing at
                                the time of his uncle's decease.
                            By Mr. MARCH: (164) to amend section 11 of an Act establishing Courts
                                of Common Pleas, approved May 14,1852.
                            By Mr. HEFFREN: (165) to amend sections 14 and 15 of an Act defining
                                felony and prescribing punishment therefor.
                            By Mr. TARKINGTON: (166) redistricting State for Common Pleas
                                purposes.
                            By Mr. JONES: (167) setting apart $1,000,000 from the Sinking Fund to
                                pay the interest and principle on bank bonds - the net proceeds to
                                appropriated for school purposes.
                            By Mr. MARCH: (168) prescribing the time, place, and manner, of
                                electing United States Senators.
                            By Mr. BOBBS: (169) granting the use of a part of square 25 in the
                                town of Indianapolis to the North-Western Christian University, and
                                authorizing said University to increase its capital.
                            By Mr. BOBBS: (170) to fix the time of holding Courts of Common Pleas
                                in Marion county. 

                        
                        
                             RESOLUTIONS. 
                            By Mr. RICE: which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Banks inquire into the expediency of
                                            passing a law requiring the holders of the paper of the
                                            free banks of the State, which have gone into
                                            liquidation, and whose assets are now, or may come, into
                                            the hands of the Auditor of State to present their notes
                                            to said Auditor for redemption within a limited and
                                            specified time, and after the lapse of that time the
                                            said Auditor be authorized to pay over to the persons
                                            entitled thereto, any surplus remaining in his hands,
                                            after redeeming the notes aforesaid, and within the time
                                            limited by law, &c., and that they report by bill or
                                            otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. STEELE offered the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Joint
                                                Standing Committee on Public Buildings, be
                                            instructed to inquire into the expediency of making an
                                            appropriation for the construction of an artesian well,
                                            for the better protection of the Insane Hospital from
                                            destruction by fire; and also, for lighting the same
                                            with gas; and report by bill or otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. JENNINGS offered the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Judiciary
                                                Committee be instructed to inquire whether
                                            there is any law authorizing the heirs of decedant
                                            estates after the administration is closed, to Institute
                                            suit for the recovery of claims in favor of the estate
                                            filed as desperate, and in absence of such law whether
                                            it is expedient or not to confer said power upon heirs
                                            at law, with leave to report by bill or otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            
                             On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS his bill (43) to amend section 23 of the
                                assessment act of June 21, 1852, was made the special order for
                                Tuesday next, at two o'clock.
                            Mr. WALLACE offered the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Canals and Internal Improvements report
                                            back the joint resolution (S. ) relative to the Wabash
                                            and Erie Canal, on Tuesday morning next.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. CONNER hoped the postponement would be till a day or two
                                longer.
                            Mr. WALLACE would be willing to put it off till next Wednesday, if
                                Senators so desired.
                            On motion by Mr. BOBBS, the pending question was informally passed
                                over, and his bill (25) was made the special order for Wednesday
                                next, at ten o'clock.
                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the pending question was passed over
                                informally - yeas 27, nays 10 - and the Shinplaster bill (H. R. 12)
                                taken from the files.
                            On Mr. HEFFREN'S motion the Senate refused to concur in the House
                                amendment.
                            And then the Senate adjourned.
                        

                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             SATURDAY, February 5, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                             Mr. Black's bill (149); Mr. Stanfield's bill (150); Mr. Claypool's
                                bill (155); Mr. Boyd's bill (157); Mr. Stiles'bill (159); Mr.
                                Dougherty'gbill (166); Mr. Harrison's bill (156); Mr. Mellett's bill
                                (163); Mr. Parks'bill (164); Mr. Snyder's bill (165); Mr. Hunter's
                                bill (167); Committee on Public Expenditures'
                                bill (172); Mr. Davis' bill (173); Mr. Turpie's bill (177); Mr.
                                Mellett's bill (186); Mr. Hunter's bills (189, 191), and Mr.
                                Reefer's bill (200), were severally referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Whiteman's bill (151) was referred to Messrs. Whiteman, Davis,
                                Martin, Blythe and Scott.
                            Mr. Hancock's bill (153) was referred to the Committee on
                                    Roads.
                            Mr. Parks' bill (161) was referred to the Select Committee
                                    on Colonization.
                            Mr. Harley's bill (162) and Mr. Parks' bill (185),were referred to
                                the Committee on Fees and Salaries.
                            Mr. Baird's bill (171) declaring it to be a misdemeanor for clerks to
                                refuse to issue summonses, &c., was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Edwards' bill (174) was referred to the Committee on
                                    Public Expenditures.
                            Mr. Mellett's bill (175) was referred to the Committee on
                                    the Organization of Courts.
                            Mr. Stanfield's bill (176) was referred to the Committee on
                                Banks.
                            Mr. Shull's bill (178) was referred to Messrs. Hall of Grant, Shull
                                and Brotherton.
                            Mr. STILES returned Mr. Snyder's bill (144) and it was referred to
                                the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Hamilton, of Boone's bill (179) and Mr. Shockley's bill (181)
                                (liquor bills,) were laid on the table.
                            Mr. Clement's bill (182) to amend the assessment act of June 21,
                                1852, was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Hunter's bill (183) to authorize county auditors to collect
                                moneys belonging to Common Schools, was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Prosser's bill (184) was laid on the table.
                            Mr. Colgrove's bill (119) for the distribution of the Sinking Fund,
                                (in 1856) being taken from the table - 
                            On motion by Mr. COLGROVE, it was referred to a committee of one from
                                each Congressional District,viz. Messrs. Colgrove,Jones,Davis,
                                Early, Hartley, Ritter, Baird, Miller, Merrifield, Stanfield and
                                Harrison.
                            
                            Mr. Hunter's bill (190) to amend section 11 of the Common Pleas act
                                of May 14, 1852, was referred to Messrs. Griffin, Turpie, Blythe,
                                Colgrove and Harrison.
                            Mr. Nebeker of Warren's bill (187) and the special committee's bill
                                (198) were referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    privileges.
                            Mr. Hamilton of Boone's bill (143) to legalize the appraisement and
                                assessment of property in cities incorporated under the act of March
                                9, 1857, was referred to Messrs. Hamilton of Boone, Prosser,
                                Harrison, Boyd and Snyder.
                        
                        
                            RULES OF THE HOUSE.
                            Mr. JONES summitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That after the fifteenth day
                                            of the present month, no member shall be allowed leave
                                            of absence longer than one day at a time, except in case
                                            of sickness or death, without unanimous consent of the
                                            House.
                                    
                                
                            
                             After debate by Messrs. Prosser, Dobbins, Davis, Parks, Hamilton of
                                Boone, Ritter and Miller - 
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON (Mr. Turpie in the Chair) entered his motion to
                                rescind the standing order of adjournment from Saturday, 11 o'clock,
                                to Monday 2 o'clock P.M.
                            The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair will hold that
                                the resolution of the gentleman from Spencer, and the motion of the
                                gentleman from Marion, are both propositions to change the rules of
                                the House, and must therefore lie over, without debate, one day.
                        
                        
                            NORTH-WESTERN CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY.
                             Mr. HARNEY asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill (No. 202)
                                granting the use of part of the square, No. 25, in the town of
                                Indianapolis to the Northwestern Christian University, and
                                authorizing said University to increase its capital: [Said
                                University to have the use of the north half of said square for
                                fifty years, to improve, erect buildings thereon and maintain in the
                                same their departments of law and medicine and a Normal School, and
                                to increase their capital stock $250,000] which was passed the first
                                reading.
                            Mr. EDWARDS. I believe that belongs to the University at
                                Bloomington.
                            The House, at 11 o'clock, adjourned till Monday 2 o'clock P. M.

                            
                                
                                    
                                         HALL OF HOUSE, February 5, 1859. 
                                         MR. DRAPIER:
                                        I voted against the engrossment of Mr. Stanfield's
                                            interest bill, and not for it as I am reported. Please
                                            make this correction for me, and oblige, 
                                        
                                            Yours truly,
                                            J.W. GORDON
                                        
                                    
                                
                            

                            
                                
                                    
                                         HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, February 5, 1859. 
                                        
                                            EDITOR SENTINEL - Dear Sir:
                                        
                                        You have me recorded in the Sentinel, in Friday's
                                            proceedings of the House of Representatives, as having
                                            voted against the motion to lay Mr. Jordan's motion to
                                            reconsider the vote by which the canal petition was
                                            indefinitely postponed, upon the table. This is a
                                            mistake, I voted in the affirmative, and respectfully
                                            ask this correction.
                                        
                                            Very truly, yours,
                                            A.J. CARR.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        



                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             MONDAY, February 7, 1859. 
                        
                        Mr. HENDRY, from the Committee on Elections, returned
                            Senator Hargrove's bill (44) to change the time for the election of
                            members of Congress, recommending passage.
                        Mr. LOMAX submitted a report by a minority of the same committee,
                            dissenting from the recommendation of the majority, and holding that the
                            provisions of the bill are unconstitutional.
                        The majority report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                            engrossed. 
                        
                            UNITED STATES SENATORS.
                             The PRESIDENT pro tempore announced special order
                                for this hour, [2 o'clock] being Mr. Wallace's bill (2) regulating
                                the manner of choosing of United States Senators. The question being
                                on the adoption of Mr. Heffren'substitute - 
                            Mr. HEFFREN explained his substitute. It proposed that, after ten
                                ballots by both houses and they do not agree by a majority vote,
                                then it shall become the duty of both branches of a Legislature to
                                proceed instanter, in the Hall of the House of Representatives, to
                                the election of Senator or Senators; and the person or persons then
                                receiving a majority of the votes of the General Assembly shall be
                                declared duly elected.
                            Mr. WALLACE made an ineffectual motion to lay the substitute proposed
                                on the tableyeas15, nays 25.
                            Mr. MURRAY demanded the previous question, and there was a second,
                                and the main question was ordered.
                            The substitute was agreed to by yeas 25, nays 16, as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs, Beeson,
                                            Blair,Carnahan,Conley,Culver, Fisk, Hamilton, Hargrove,
                                            Heffren, Hill, Line, Lomax, McClure, McLean, Miller,
                                            Murray, O'Brien, Odell, Shoemaker, Slack, Steele,
                                            Stevens, Studabaker, Tarkington and Williams - 25.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Anthony, Brown, Cobb,
                                            Conner, Cravens, Gooding, Hendry, Jennings, Johnston,
                                            Kinley, March, Robinson, Thompson, Wagner, Wallace and
                                            Wilson - 16.
                                        REFUSING - Mr. Bobbs.

                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. ANTHONY, when his name was called, said he did not vote against
                                the amendment because he was opposed to it in principle, but because
                                he preferred the other plan. He considered it as next best to the
                                original bill.
                            Mr. GOODING, in explanation, had but very little objection to the
                                amendment, and if the bill were to fail, he would take up with the
                                amendment.
                            Mr. HENDRY, in explanation, was opposed to joint conventions of the
                                General Assembly, and did not think they were ever contemplated by
                                the Constitution. He could not understand how you could make a
                                Legislature out of the fifty members of the Senate and the one
                                hundred members of the House when assembled together. He voted
                                against the proposition.
                            Mr. MARCH, in explanation, was opposed to any plan of election by
                                joint convention.
                            Mr. WALLACE, in explanation, preferred the bill infinitely to
                                anything in the substitute. 
                            So the amendment was substituted for the bill.
                            Mr. MARCH moved to amend the bill by striking out the fourth section
                                - that cont lining the proposition for a joint convention of the
                                Assembly after the tenth ballot.
                            On motion by Mr. ODELL, the bill and pending amendment were referred
                                to a select committee of five, which is made to consist of Sena- tors Odell, Heffren, March,
                                Murray and Johnston.
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. HENDRY, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Senator McClure's
                                bill (135) to provide for issuing fee bills and executions against
                                sureties for costs on suits brought against non-residents;
                                recommending indefinite postponement. The report was concurred
                                in.
                            Mr. ANTHONY, from the same committee, returned Senator Blair's bill
                                (127) to amend sections 8, 25 and 26 of an apportionment act
                                approved May 14, 1852, recommending passage. The report was
                                concurred in, the bill ordered to be be engrossed.
                            Mr MARCH, from the same committee, returned his bill (117) admitting
                                all parties to a suit to be witnesses, with one or two exceptions,
                                recommending its passage.
                            Mr. HEFFREN was opposed to concurring in the report.
                            Mr. GOODING sustained the bill, and argued concurrence in the report.
                                He could desire it were made plain in the bill that no negro should
                                have the right to testily against a white man.
                            Mr. MURRAY offered the following as an amendment to the first
                                section:
                            
                                "Providing this section shall not be
                                    considered as rendering competent as witnesses any Indiana,
                                    mulattoes or negroes, or persons having one eighth negro
                                    blood."
                            
                            Mr. GOODING, to that amendment had no objection.
                            Mr. CONNER objected to the clause prohibiting Indians from testifying
                                as witnesses. He had some forty Indian constituents who werehighly
                                educated, and he did not like to see them classed with negroes.
                            Mr. MARCH had no objection to the amendment. He thought no white
                                person should be denied the privilege of coming into court and
                                testifying as a witness, even if he were a party to the suit, and
                                hoped the bill would pass.
                            Mr. CONNER offered the following as an amendment to the
                                amendment.
                            
                                "Provided further, that in all cases where
                                    either the plantiff or the defendent, by reason of any legal
                                    disability,shall not be allowed to testify; then and in that
                                    case, the opposite party shall not be allowed to testify."
                            
                            Mr. MURRAY offered his amendment not because he was in favor of it in
                                the abstract. When the question comes up to remove the incompetence
                                of negroes to testify, he would try to meet it in a manner to
                                satisfy himself and his constituents. He would then show the gross
                                injustice that frequently occurs to the community by reason of that
                                provision denying colored persons the right to testify. 
                            Mr. WALLACE made an ineffectual motion to lay the amendment to the
                                amendment on the table.
                            Mr. HEFFREN made an ineffectual motion to lay the bill and pending
                                amendments on the table-yeas 19, nays 24.
                            Mr. MURRAY accepted of the amendment his amendment. The amendment was
                                then adopted.
                            Mr. WALLACE hoped the bill would not pass. The law has been for many
                                hundred years that party to a suit shall be a witness in the case;
                                but that law has been modified, and he was satisfied with the law as
                                it now stood. If both parties are permitted to swear, why not put
                                them on the jury. He could not see the philosophy between allowing
                                them to appear as witnesses and allowing them to be upon the
                                jury.
                            Mr. MARCH contended there was a good deal of difference.
                            The bill was then ordered to be engrossed, by yeas 22, nays 21.
                            Mr. BLAIR, from a select committee, returned Senator Bobbs' bill (49)
                                fixing the time of holding courts in the Fifth Judicial Circuit,
                                recommending its passage. The report was concurred in and the bill
                                read the second time by title.
                            On motion by Mr. BLAIR, the bill was considered as engrossed, read
                                the third time and finally passed the Senate - yeas 44, nays 0.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON, from a select committee, returned the petition from
                                the city of Madison, praying for the repeal of the 9th section of an
                                amendment to their city charter, recommending the adoption of an
                                accompanying bill, (No. 171} to repeal section 9, of an act to
                                reduce the law incorporating the city of Madison, approved January
                                15, 1849.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced and severally passed the first
                                reading:
                            By Mr. CRAVENS, (172) to fix the time of holding Circuit Court in the
                                First Judicial Circuit.
                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON the rules were suspended - yeas 42, nays
                                0the bill read the first and second time by title, and finally
                                passed the Senate by yeas 40, nays 0.
                            By Mr. HEFFREN (173) to prevent the circulation of foreign bank bills
                                and notes of a less denomination than five dollars after the first
                                of January, 1860.
                            By Mr. BLAIR, (174) fixing the time of holding the Court of Common
                                Pleas in the county of Hendricks.
                            By Mr. LOMAX, (175) to regulate the sale of spiritous and
                                intoxicating liquors.
                            By Mr. CONLEY, (176) to amend sections 8 and 10 of the Justices' act
                                approved June 9, 1852.
                            By Mr. O'BRIAN, (177) to amend section 1 of an act regulating weights
                                and measures, approved June 9, 1852.
                            By Mr. SHOE MAKER, (178) providing for the election and appointment
                                of supervisors of highways.
                            By Mr. HENDRY, (179) withholding pay from members of the General
                                Assembly who unnecessarily absent themselves from the same.
                            By Mr. BOBBS, (180) providing for a registry of births and
                                deaths.
                            And then the Senate adjourned.
                        

                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             MONDAY, February 7, 1859. 
                        
                        On motion by Mr. MERRIFIELD, (the order of the day being suspended for
                            the purpose,) his bill (36) fixing the time of the Circuit Court in the
                            9th Judicial Circuit, was taken up and passed the final reading in the
                            House of Representatives - yeas 73, nays 0.
                        
                        On motion of Mr. FIRESTONE (under a suspension,) the bill (S. 84) fixing
                            the time of holding the Conrt of Common Pleas in the county of
                            Huntington, &c., was considered and passed the final reading in the
                            House of Repesentatives - yeas 73, nays 0. 
                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            By Mr. HALL, of Grant: officers of Court and attorneys of the county
                                of Grantasking for a change of the times of holding Circuit Court in
                                said county; which was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Organization of Courts.
                            Mr. KEEFER moved the reconsideration of the vote rejecting Mr. Parks'
                                bill for the protection of wild cranberries.
                            The motion was agreed to, and the bill committed to Messrs. Keefer,
                                Stanley, Griffin, Hamilton of Boone, and Parks.
                            The SPEAKER presented a memorial from the officers and members of a
                                Horse Thief Detecting Association of the county of Marion, against
                                the repeal of the General Law under which they are organized, which
                                was referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.
                            Also, the memorial of John S. Williams and others, corporators of the
                                Indianapolis University, asking the lease of University Square in
                                the town of Indianapolis, for University buildings. It was referred
                                to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. COLGROVE moved to take up the Senate's refusal to concur in the
                                House amendment to the Senate's amendment to Mr. Martin's bill (H.
                                R. 12,) authorizing the Bank of the State and the Free Banks to do
                                business without reference to its provisions, just announced, by
                                message, by Mr. Senator Heffren.
                            Mr. DAVIS preferred to wait till the return of Judge Stanfield, the
                                author of the amendment.
                            Mr. PROSSER. Judge Stanfield had told him that he did not expect the
                                above construction to be placed on his amendment.
                            Mr. DAVIS. The object of the amendment was to perfect the object of
                                the bill to cut off the issues of plank road companies, insurance
                                companies, &c, It could work no harm to wait 8 or 10 hours.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, and Mr. BLYTHE alleged that it was due to
                                Judge Stanfield to give him an opportunity to explain his amendment,
                                upon which it was known he bestowed a good deal of care.
                            Mr. HUNTER suggested that the Judge's amendment might not have been
                                correctly engrossed
                            The House refused to suspend the order of business.
                            Mr. PROSSER asked and obtained a suspension of the orders, to enable
                                him to introduce a bill changing the time of the settlement for
                                delinquent taxes from the first Monday in August, till the first
                                Monday in October. It is entitled a bill (203) to amend the 103d
                                sec. of the act to provide for the caluation and assessment of real
                                and personal property in the State of Indiana, &c., approved
                                June 21,1852. It was passed the first reading.
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                             By Mr. TURPIE - Judiciary - returning Mr.
                                Edwards' (135) relative to granting letters of administration
                                without filing a bond, when such is the will of the testator, with
                                an amendment:
                            Add, after the word "notwithstanding," in the first section, the
                                following:"Provided any person interested in said estate, may, at
                                any time by filing objections in writing with the clerk, granting
                                the said letters without bond or security, require said executor or
                                executrix to give as in other cases; and thereupon no letters shall
                                be issued until the bond be first given; and if the same be issued
                                already, they shall thereupon be forthwith revoked and set aside,
                                and letters testamentary or of administration with the will annexed
                                shall be issued as in other cases."
                             The amendment was adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. DAVIS - Judiciary - returning his bill
                                (139) amedatory of sec. 9, chap. 4, Part First of the Revised
                                Statutes of 1852(with reference to bailable officers)recommending
                                its passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. Baird - Judiciary - returning Mr. Park's
                                bill (146) to amend sec. 364 of the Practice act of June 18,
                                1852(dismissal of debtors in vacation)recommending that the same be
                                laid the table.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            By Mr. TURPIE - Judiciary -  returning , Black's
                                bill (146) to amend sections 18 and 19 of the Justices' act of May
                                29, 1852, with the expression of opinion that legislation on the
                                subject is inexpedient.
                            The bill was laid on the table.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE - Judiciary - return Mr.
                                Stanfield's bill (176) to amend sec. 19 of the Practice act of June
                                18, 1852, recommending its passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. DAVIS - Judiciary - returning Mr. Black's
                                bill (149) amendatory of the act concerning the partition of land,
                                of May 20,1852-(the 11th and 18th sections thereof)recommending
                                passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. BLYTHE - Judiciary - returning Mr, Davis'
                                bill (142) to authorize County Commissioners to make allowances to
                                indemnify the owners of property destroyed, &c., under the
                                administation of the liquor law of 1855, recommending passage.
                            Mr. DAVIS said: Under the operation of what is called the temperance
                                bill, the officers of the law in many cases have seized and
                                destroyed property. They have been sued, and recoveries lave been
                                had against them; and now it remains to be seen whether those men
                                who honestly executed what they thought to be the law, shall be sold
                                out of house and home for so doing, without remedy. I can give a
                                case in my own county, where a party honestly thinking he had a
                                right o do so, seized a quantity of wine. The wine, from simply
                                removing it at that season of the year, was destroyed. Suit was
                                instituted, and recovery was had of some $500. Now it remains or us
                                to-day to say, whether it would be right o compel that poor
                                constable, or his securities to pay that $500, I very respectfully
                                submit, sir, that it would not. The bill does not make it impulsory
                                upon the commissioners to make the allowance. If they should think
                                it right, on examination of the whole question, they may do it in
                                the exercise of their discretion. I submit that this is only even
                                handed justice. I might go further and say, the State or the constituted authorities should
                                pay it. That would be nearer right. If a man is to be bankrupted for
                                executing the jaw, how long will it be before we may not be able to
                                find a man willing to execute the law? The bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            By Mr. TURPIE - Judiciary - returning the bill (S.
                                30) to provide for the transfer of certificates of the State of
                                Indiana, providing for the registry of the same, to prevent the
                                fraudulent issue thereof, &c., together with Mr. Smith, of
                                Perry's, amendment thereto, providing additional rules regulating
                                the transference of said stock of the State amending the bill, by
                                striking out all fifth line of the 4th section, and recommending-its
                                passage; and recommending that it's amendment be laid on the
                                table.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to a third reading
                                to-morrow.
                            By Mr. DAVIS - Judiciary - returning Mr. Cotton's
                                bill (137) authorizing the transfer of real property by married
                                women under 21 years of age, recommending indefinite postponement.
                                The report was concurred in.
                            BY Mr. BAIRD - Judiciary - returning Mr. Mellett's
                                bill (86) to amend section 103 of the criminal practice act of June
                                17, 1852, recommending indefinite postponement.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            By Mr. DAVIS - Judiciary - returning Mr. Hunter's
                                bill (167) to provide for the fees of Sheriffs for conveying
                                convicts to the State Prison, &c., recommending indefinite
                                postponement.
                            Mr. HUNTER stated that this conveying convicts to the State Prison
                                was a standing cheat and fraud upon the State, where there is more
                                than one taken at a time. This bill was to provide only reasonable
                                additional charges, where there is more than one convict going at
                                the same time. It would save $5,000 a year.
                            The report was concurred in; and then the bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            By Mr. TURPIE - Judiciary - returning Mr.
                                Stanfield's bill (169) for the relief of the heirs at law of John
                                Coran, deceased, recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE - Judiciary - returning Mr. Davis'
                                bill (173) to amend the 11th section of the act for the
                                incorporation of manufacturing and mining companies, and companies
                                for mechanical, chemical and building purposes, recommending
                                passage.
                            By same - returning Mr. Harrison's bill (156) authorizing appeals
                                from the Circuit Courts to the Supreme Court in contested election
                                cases, recommending passage.
                            By same - returning Mr. Blythe's bill (138) declaring the meaning of
                                the first section of the act, prescribing who may make a will,
                                &c., of May 31, 1852, and to legalize wills made by warned women
                                in pursuance thereof - amending the 3d section so as to read:
                            SEC. 3. Whereas, it is deemed that an emergency
                                exists, therefore the same shall take effect and be in force from
                                and after its passage.
                            The amendment was agreed to, and so these bills were ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            By Mr. PARRETT - Judiciary - returning Mr.
                                Colgrove's bill (93) to amend the 5th and 7th sections of the
                                divorce act of May 13, 1852, with several verbal amendments and
                                adding:
                            SEC. 3. Nothing in this act shall be so construed
                                as to affect pending causes at the time of the taking effect of this
                                act.
                            The amendment was agreed to, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            By Mr. TURPIE - Judiciary - returning Mr. Hamilton
                                of Boone's bill (76) to amend the Divorce Act, recommending that it
                                be laid on the table.
                            Also - Mr. Dougherty's bill (166) to authorize parties in civil
                                actions to testify, with the expression of opinion that further
                                legislation on that subject is inexpedient.
                            These bills were laid on the table.
                            By Mr. BAIRD - Judiciary - returning Mr. Snyder's
                                bill (165) to amend the 18th section of the Misdemeanor Act of June
                                14, 1855, recommending passage.
                            By Mr. TURPIE - Judiciaryreturning Mr. Davis' bill
                                (152) to provide for the making and authentication of transcripts
                                from the records of the Recorders' offices, and the admissibility of
                                the same, as evidence, recommending passage.
                            These bills were ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. JEFFRIES - select committee - returning Mr.
                                Harrison's bill (59) to extend to borrowers of the Sinking Fund, and
                                other trust funds time for the payment of their loans, and
                                prescribing the duties of certain officers in reference thereto,
                                recommending passage, with Mr. Harrison's amendment, viz.:
                            Add to section 4: "Provided, the provisions of this act shall not
                                apply to any sum or sums over $500." 
                        
                        
                            THE BLIND ASYLUM
                             By Mr. GIFFORD - Public Expenditures - submitted
                                a report in writing, on the expenditures of the Asylum for the
                                Blind, its general economy and management - embracing statements of
                                the leading items of annual expenditures, as far back as March 1,
                                1853comparing the same with the expenditures of the Ohio
                                institution; recommending the fidelity and efficiency of the
                                Superintendent; a reduction of the number of Trustees; common system
                                of book keeping for all the Benevolent Institutions of the State,
                                and closing thus:
                            But, lastly, your committee invite the attention cf the House to the
                                fact that so limited a number (53) of the blind of our State, are
                                now receiving the benefits of an institution, which, at so great an
                                expense has been prepared and is maintained for their instruction.
                                Judging from the limited number in attendance, the Trustees have
                                adopted no efficient plan to reach them, although the Superintendent
                                has declared that three times the present number could be educated
                                with but a small increased expenditure, it is the duty of the
                                General Assembly to provide means to bring them into the Asylum.
                            Regarding, therefore, the present law as defective and insufficient
                                in many things, your committee report the following bills for the
                                government of the Asylum, and procuring statistics relative to the
                                deaf and dumb and blind in the State.
                            A bill (204) prescribing the duty of township assessors in making out
                                lists of the deaf, dumb, and blind in their respective townships,
                                and the duty of county auditors in relation thereto:
                            A bill (205) for tie better management of the Institution for the
                                Education of the Blind, by providing for a Board of Trustees, and
                                prescribing their duties and compensation:
                            
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading.
                            By Mr. Hamilton, of Boone - from select committee - returning Mr.
                                Massey's bill (132) to amend the general election act of June 17,
                                1852 with the expression of opinion that further legislation on the
                                subject is inexpedient.
                            The bill was laid on the table.
                        
                        
                             WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. Turpie's bill (177); Mr. Harney's bill (202); and the bill (S.
                                131) were referred to the Judiciary
                                Committee.
                            The Colonization bill (170) was referred to Messrs. Ritter, Hunter,
                                Blythe, Sherman and Boyd.
                            Usrey's Ohio and Wabash river counties bill (201) was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            The House then, at 4 1/2 o'clock, adjourned.
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             TUESDAY, February 7, 1859. 
                        
                        
                             PETITIONS, MEMORIALS AND REMONSTRANCES.
                             Mr. CONNER presented a memorial from 350 citizens of Wabash and
                                adjoining counties in reference to the Wabash and Erie Canal,
                                praying that some means may be provided to keep it up which was
                                referred to the Committee on Canals and Internal
                                    Improvements.
                            Mr. BOBBS presented a petition from sundry persons interested in the
                                proposed Indianapolis University, praying for the use of University
                                Square in the city of Indianapolis, for 99 years, and moved its
                                reference to the Committee on Corporations.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON objected to the reference and proposed the
                                    Committee on Education. He afterwards
                                signified his willingness to have it go to the Judiciary
                                Committee.
                            Mr. BOBBS consented, and it was so referred.
                            Mr. GOODING presented a remonstrance from Hancock county against the
                                Governor's Message, so far as it proposes the repeal of the law
                                against horse thieves, which was referred to the Committee
                                    on Rights and privileges.
                            Mr. GOODING, by leave, introduced a bill (181) fixing the time of
                                holding Circuit Court in Hancock county. The rules were suspended
                                yeas 43, nays 0the bill read a second and third time and finally
                                passed the Senate by yeas 42, nays 0.
                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the bill (H. R. 29) to regulate and
                                restrain the sale of vinous, maIt and intoxicating liquors, &c.,
                                was taken from the table.
                            On Mr. STUDABAKER'S motion, the rules were suspended - yeas 45, nays
                                1and the bill read by its title only, instead of the reading it
                                through by sections.
                            The bill was then read the second time by title and referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.
                        
                        
                            THE CALENDAR
                            Mr. Studabaker's bill (4) to amend section 73 of an assessment act of
                                June 21, 1852, so as to make returns of the number of domestic and
                                farm animals of all kinds, and the quantities in bushels and tons of
                                farm products of every kind, every five years instead of one as is
                                now provided, coming up - 
                            Mr. WAGNER objected to the passage of the bill. He thought these
                                returns would be of little or no value if they were made only once
                                in five years, and he would much prefer the law should remain as it
                                is now.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER defended the provisions of his bill.
                            Mr. BEESON, as an agriculturalist, was in favor of the bill. He
                                thought no confidence could be placed in returns when made every
                                year, compared with those that might be made every five years. He
                                objected to the yearly listing, also on the score of the expense,
                                which was nearly great as that of regular taxation.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS favored the proposition contained in the bill.
                            Mr. LINE thought it would cost an additional sum of $20 for each
                                township, and supposing we have ten townships in each county, there
                                being 90 counties in the State, the expense would amount to $18,000.
                                Believing in retrenching expenses, he should vote for the bill, as
                                it requires this outlay should be made but once in five years.
                            Mr. WAGNER thought every one should have this information, and that
                                $18,000 should not be withheld, when it would furnish such valuable
                                statistical matter to every man in the State. He was not fully
                                satisfied with the law as it nows tood, but hoped it would not be
                                made worse by the enactment of such an amendment as is proposed.
                            Mr. MURRAY hoped the bill would pass.
                            Mr. HENDRY represented an agricultural region, and was sure there
                                would be no information so valuable to every township and county as
                                the amount of its productions. When this information is gathered
                                only once in five years, how can you tell whether the State is on
                                the decline or whether it is on the increase, for the fifth year nay
                                be one of unusual prosperity, or it may be what we term
                                comparatively an unproductive one. He was opposed to the bill: and
                                would much prefer the law now on our statute book.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON thought if it is important o have this information at
                                all, an interval of five ears would be too long. He suggested to the
                                author of the bill that it be so amended as that this information be
                                taken once in two years, or three at most.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER could not consent to a modification of the bill.
                            Mr. SLACK thought there was no extra expense incurred in the taking
                                of this information, the printed list was left at the residence of
                                tax-payers and the blanks filled up by them. He was opposed to the
                                passage of the bill.
                            Mr. HEFFREN hoped the bill would pass.
                            This listing of products was an item of expense uncalled for every
                                year, and he thought once in five years was often enough.
                            Mr. COBB thought the expense was trifling; indeed, he could not see
                                where it was, unless it ame from the blanks and books, and that was
                                a very small affair. The information is looked for with a great deal
                                of interest by the farming community of the entire State. This bill
                                should not be passed. If this ennumeration should not be taken
                                oftener than five years, he thought it useless to take it all. It is
                                necessary that the farmers should have a knowledge of the
                                products
                            
                        
                    
                    
                
                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 12, 1859.
                        No. 10.
                    
                    
                        
                            of the State every year. Credits are extended to the people of our
                                State based upon the yearly amount of our agricultural products. He
                                could not consent to putting off the collection of this information
                                longer than two years.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON moved to recommit with instructions to require the
                                report to be made every two years, and to strike out the emergency
                                clause.
                            Mr. WAGNER moved to add the words "and that an abstract be
                                published."
                            Mr. WALLACE was opnosed to the bill. He would rather expend $25,000
                                annually to have these tables published to the world than to fail of
                                it. He was opposed to the two year amendment, and hoped the law
                                would be allowed to remain as it stands now.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN expressed himself as in favor of the bill as it stands,
                                and opposed to the amendment. He was surprised to hear Senators say
                                that this information costs nothing; for the expense of his own
                                county has increased to three times the amount of what it was under
                                the old system. He would even be in favor of letting the person who
                                takes the census be the collector of this information. He moved to
                                lay the pending motions on the table.
                            This motion was agreed to by yeas 23, nays 20.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON thought the law as it now stood was imperfect; but it
                                was much better than though amended as proposed by this bill.
                            Mr, KINLEY said the publication of this information only once in five
                                years amounted to nothing, and he thought it poor economy to throw
                                away $18,000, as it were, into the bottom of the ocean every five
                                years, but refuse to expend that amount every year for the
                                collection of this invaluable information. He was opposed to the
                                bill.
                            Mr. McLEAN expressed himself in favor of the bill, but rose for the
                                purpose of calling the attention of the Senate to the fact that
                                there was a special order set for this hour.
                            The Senate refused to take up the special order.
                            Mr. LINE again made a few remarks in favor of the bill.
                            Mr. WAGNER occupied the floor again in opposition. He would be
                                willing to take up with the proposed two years amendment if he could
                                not have the law as it stands.
                            The question was then taken on the passage of the bill. 
                            A constitutional provision requiring the yeas and nays - they were
                                ordered, and being taken resulted - yeas 21, nays 25 - as
                                follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. - Messrs. Beeson, Bennett,
                                            Carnahan, Conley, Fisk, Hargrove, Heffren, Line, Lomax,
                                            McClure, McLean, Miller, O'Brien, Odell, Robinson,
                                            Shoemaker, Stevens, Studabaker, Tarkington, Williams and
                                            Wilson- 21.
                                        NAYS. - Messrs. Anthony, Blair, Bobbs,
                                            Brown, Cobb, Conner, Cravens, Craven, Culver, Gooding,
                                            Hamilton, Hendry, Hill, Jennings, Johnston, Jones,
                                            Kinley, March, Rice, Slack, Steele, Thompson, Turner,
                                            Wagner and Wallace - 25.

                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. BENNETT, when his name was called, said he desired to vote upon
                                this question as should best subserve the interests of Agriculture;
                                that he had not sufficiently observed the practical operations of
                                the present law, to form an opinion of its utility: but as he found
                                his friends, the Senators from Wayne and Franklin, both of whom are
                                farmers, and one of them Chairman of the Committee on
                                    Agriculture, voting for the new bill, he, in this
                                case, would follow their lead and vote for the proposed
                                amendment.
                            Mr. BOBBS, in explanation, said: He thought no Senator could vote for
                                a better proposition than that the State should always show up her
                                productions, and that money expended in that way was expended
                                judiciously.
                            Mr. STEVENS: I vote in favor of the bill under consideration, the
                                provisions of which I relieve will save to the State at least eighty
                                thousand dollars, every five years. The present law requires the
                                information sought, to be gathered and published yearly, the
                                performing of which, will cost not less than twenty thousand dollars
                                annually, hence, if only done once in five years, the State will be
                                largely the gainer pecuniarily, and I certainly am not able to see
                                any equivalent in return for so large an expenditure. Senators say
                                that farmers desire the information yearly, in order that they may
                                have some basis, on which to found their opinions as to what product
                                the ensuing year would yield them the greatest profit. I do not
                                believe that this would afford them any valuable information in that
                                direction, for the reason that seasons often fail to secure to the
                                agriculturist his expectations. Corn crops prove some times almost
                                an entire failure, when the farmer anticipates an abundant yield.
                                The same may be said of wheat, and other kinds of grain; and of late
                                years the hog crop has proved equally uncertain (on account of
                                cholera.) In place then, of such report yearly, being an advantage
                                in that respect, it would more often confuse and derange the farming
                                interest. Again, as a general thing, not one-fourth of the farmers
                                of the State ever see or read these reports, consequently the State
                                pays a large sum yearly, under
                                the law as it now is for the supposed benefit of very few, at the
                                expense of the many. Further, the farmers are often misrepresented
                                as to the number of hogs and cattle they have for market; the result
                                of which is, that they often, when taking the surplus they really
                                have, to market, have to contend with the prejudice made on the
                                minds of produce dealers by these exaggerated reports; and often the
                                price of pork and other articles, is largely reduced by the reports
                                showing millions of hogs in the hands of the farmers, when they only
                                have thousands for market.
                            So the bill was rejected.

                        
                        
                            ADULTERATED LIQUORS.
                            The PRESIDENT pro tempore announced the special
                                order, it being Mr. Cooper's bill (130) to prevent the sale of
                                adulterated liquors and the adulteration thereof; the question being
                                upon the adoption of the amendments proposed by the Committee from
                                which the bill is reported.
                            Mr. HEFFREN took it that if the bill was amended as is proposed by
                                the committee we would have a law that would be carried into effect,
                                and one that would effectually do away with drugged or impure
                                liquors. Members, if they were to drink the liquors furnished them
                                now-a-days in this city would be burned out in the time they lived
                                here during one session of the Legislature. [Laughter.]
                            Mr. SLACK thought the analysis of the liquors proposed in the bill
                                was impracticable, for he did not believe there was a competent
                                chemist in half the counties of the State. He thought the thing
                                impracticable and was opposed to the whole bill.
                            The first amendment - requiring the County Commissioners at their
                                first regular meeting in June to appoint a competent person to
                                examine and analyse all spirituous and malt liquors and vinegar to
                                be sold in the county was adopted.
                            The second amendment - requiring the chemist to give certificates
                                whether the liquor be pure or adulterated - was adopted by
                                consent.
                            The third amendment was then read. It allows to the chemist $2 for
                                his examination of the first barrel or parcel and 50 cents for each
                                additional parcel presented at the same time; to be paid by the
                                person presenting the same.
                            Mr. TURNER was opposed to the pay of the county chemist. Every
                                country merchant sells vinegar. According to this bill they would
                                have to get it analyzed, and as they hardly ever get more than one
                                barrel at a time it would materially increase the price of that
                                article. He was in favor of striking out the word "vinegar" wherever
                                it occurs, but would vote for the bill, because he would throw no
                                impediment in the way of any temperance bill that may come up.
                            Mr. BOBBS thought if we could make this bill perfect it would be a
                                good thing.
                            Mr. WALLACE preferred the bill passed by the House of Representatives
                                to any other bill that had been introduced. He desired to see it
                                perfected and passed by this body.
                            Mr. HEFFREN was in favor of giving the people a law and trusting to
                                the courts for the right construction. He hoped the amendment would
                                be concurred in.
                            Mr. MARCH had no objections to the general principles of the bill
                                where it refers to intoxicating liquors, but thought the vinegar
                                clause was impracticable.
                            The third amendment was then adopted.
                            The fourth and last amendment was then adopted by consent. It
                                provides that any person who may barter or sell any impure or
                                drugged liquors or vinegar shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
                                and be fined for the first offense not less than $10 nor more than
                                $50; for the second offense not less than $25 nor more then $200, to
                                which may be added imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding 30
                                days.
                            Mr. McCLURE moved to recommit with instructions to amend by
                                incorporating in the bill some kind of a standard by which the
                                purity Or different kinds of spiritous liquors and vinegar may be
                                tested.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, this was laid on the table
                            Mr. MARCH moved to amend by striking out of the bill all in relation
                                to vinegar.
                            The motion was agreed to by consent.
                            Mr. McLEAN inquired if this bill would conflict with the Temperance
                                bill which had been reported from the House.
                            Mr. HEFFREN said this bill was intended to stand upon its own merits,
                                entirely independent of any other.
                            Mr. BROWN thought the compensation was too little for the
                                chemist.
                            Mr. BLAIR proposed to amend by striking out of the second section the
                                provision which requires the chemist to have a diploma from a
                                medical college.
                            Mr. Bobbs and Mr. March favored the amendment, pending which - 
                            The Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock P. M.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. Blair's amendment, pending at the time of taking the recess, was
                                adopted. The bill was then ordered to be engrossed. 

                            
                                EXEMPTION FROM TAXATION.
                                The PRESIDENT, pro tempore, announced the
                                    special order for this hour - Mr William's bill (43) to amend
                                    the 23d section of the valuation and assessment act, approved
                                    June 1,1852 the question being on the amendment proposed by Mr.
                                    Fish, as follows:
                                Amend so as to exempt the tax-payer who may own any property on
                                    the flrst day of January and sell the same before he is
                                    assessed, from paying taxes on the property owned on the first
                                    day of January and on the money or obligation he has
                                    received.
                                On motion by Mr, CARNAHAN, the amendment was laid on the
                                    table.
                                The question then recurred on the adoption of the amendment
                                    recommended by the Committee on Finance, to insert in the 12th
                                    section the words "within this State," so that the clause would
                                    read:
                                Each tax payer may and he is hereby authorized to Deduct the
                                    amount of his indebtedness within this States out of his
                                    personal property or solvent claims.
                                Mr. HEFFREN, for the purpose of testing the sense of the Senate
                                    as to whether we will tax all the property of the tax-payer or
                                    only what he is worth above his indebtedness, moved to recommit
                                    with the following instructions:
                                
                                Amend so as to allow each person to take all his indebtedness out
                                    of his personal or real property, or both.
                                He was opposed to his own proposition to induct the committee to
                                    so amend the bill; and was in favor of taxing all the property
                                    of the State without any reference to indebtedness.
                                Mr. STEVEN'S was satisfied with the amendment, for he, too, was
                                    in favor of making every person pay taxes on all his property
                                    without taking into account his liabilities.
                                On motion by Mr. MILLER, the motion to recommit was laid on the
                                    table.
                                Mr. MILLER moved to recommit with instructions so to amend as to
                                    compel all property to be taxed irrespective of the indebtedness
                                    of the owner.
                                Mr. CARNAHAN was opposed to the motion to recommit, and in favor
                                    of the amendment proposed by the committee. He moved to lay the
                                    motion to recommit on the table.
                                This motion was agreed to.
                                Mr. MURRAY was content with the law as it stands, and saw no
                                    necessity for the amendment proposed by the bill under
                                    consideration. He moved to indefinitely postpone the bill and
                                    pending amendment.
                                On this motion the yeas and nays were demanded, and being ordered
                                    and taken, resulted yeas 28, nays 18 - as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                                Bennett,Blair, Bobbs, Brown, Conner, Craven, Culver,
                                                Fisk,Hargrove, Heffren, Hendry, Hill, Johnston,
                                                Jones. Kinley, Line, Lomax, McLean, Murray, O'Brien,
                                                Slack, Stevens, Tarkington, Thompson, Wallace and
                                                Wilson - 28.
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb,
                                                Conley, Cooper, Hamilton. Jennings, McClure, March,
                                                Miller, Odell, Rice, Robinson, Shoemaker, Steele,
                                                Studabaker, Turner, Wagner and Williams - 18.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                 Mr. ANTHONY, when his name was called, said: He was in favor of
                                    the bill but thought it bad policy to pass it for the reason
                                    that we have already made our estimates for the next two years,
                                    and if it should be passed, the probabilities are that it would
                                    take a great proportion of the property away that would be taxed
                                    by the law as it now stands, and we might suffer in two years
                                    from this time for want of sufficient revenue.
                                Mr. HEFFREN, in explanation, said the point had been decided by
                                    the courts in the Second Circuit that a man under the present
                                    law may take his indebtedness out of his property, money, or
                                    anything else. He was satisfied with the law and should vote
                                    "aye."
                                Mr. MILLER, in explanation, said he believed the present law was
                                    unfair, and ought to be amended. He was in favor of this
                                    proposition or the one voted down a little while ago.
                                Mr. SLACK, in explanation, said: It strikes me if this law
                                    prevails we will have but very little taxable property in
                                    Indiana; I therefore vote "aye."
                                So the bill was indefinitely postponed.
                            
                            
                                BANK OF THE STATE OF THE INDIANA.
                                On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the order of business was informally
                                    passed over and Mr. Conley'a bill (42) to repeal the charter of
                                    the Bank of the State of Indiana was taken up for consideration
                                    - the question being on the recommendation of the minority of
                                    the special committee from which it was reported, to
                                    indefinitely postpone.
                                 Mr. BOBBS said circumstances had forced him into this bank
                                    controversy against his own desire in the premises; that he was
                                    a State Bank man, but if called upon to vote directly on the
                                    repeal of this charter he should so vote. The Senator spoke an
                                    hour and a half. When he had concluded - 
                                Mr. BEESON demanded the previous question, but withdrew for - 
                                Mr. GOODING, who read a reply to some personal remarks contained
                                    in Mr. Heffren's speech last Friday evening.
                                Mr. BEESON renewed his demand for the previous question, and
                                    there being a second, the vote stood - yeas 29, nays 18, as
                                    follows: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                                Bennett, Blair, Brown, Cobb, Conner, Cooper,
                                                Cravens, Craven, Culver, Hamilton, Heffren, Hill,
                                                Johnston, Jones, Line, Miller, Murray, Odell, Rice,
                                                Slack, Steele, Stevens, Tarkington, Thompson,
                                                Turner, Wagner, Williams - 20,
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Bobbs, Carnahan,
                                                Conley, Fisk, Gooding, Hargrove, Hendry, Jennings,
                                                Kinley, Lomax, McClure, March, O'Brien, Robinson,
                                                Shoemaker, Studabaker, Wallace, Wilson - 18.
                                            ABSENT - Mr. Green.
                                            Mr. McLean paired off with Mr. Weir.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. ANTHONY, when his named was called, said he was a bank man
                                    and represented a community finding it necessary to have these
                                    institutions. He had nothing against the bank charter as it was
                                    designed to be operated by the Legislature; but did object to
                                    the manner in which it , has been administered by some of its
                                    branches; and when amendments shall be proposed which will
                                    restrict them to the construction of their charter as the
                                    Legislature designed, he would vote for them. But he must object
                                    to repeal, when no better reason is given than that the charter
                                    was conceived in sin and brought forth in iniquity. It was not
                                    material to him what motives operated upon that General
                                    Assembly, the question was, has the Legislature the power to
                                    repeal? and if so, is it policy, as a matter of expediency? But
                                    some two or three of the twenty-five Senators fresh from the
                                    people, would vote for repeal. The withdrawal of the five
                                    million of this bank circulation would seriously affect the
                                    commerce of the country. He could not assent to the doctrine
                                    that the Legislature have not the power of repeal a doctrine
                                    which puts it in the power of the Legislature to dispose of
                                    franchises in a matter which may directly affect the interests
                                    of the people beyond the power of recall. He could not endorse
                                    that. But he could not think the people demanded repeal, and if
                                    they did it must work to their injury.
                                Mr. BLAIR, in explanation,said: He found authority for this
                                    charter in the Constitution, It was given to certain individuals
                                    for 20 years, to furnish a currency. He did not believe this
                                    Legislature had the power to take that charter from them at the
                                    present time, neither did he believe it would be right to do so.
                                    He voted for indefinite postponement.
                                Mr. CARNAHAN, in explanation, said: He never had recorded himself
                                    as a bank roan in any shape or form. He preferred the free bank
                                    system as the safest. The war between these bank factions has
                                    been of long standing since the Constitutional Convention. They
                                    passed  this charter,
                                    uninstructed by the people, and, as I am satisfied, they did it
                                    through fraud.
                                Mr. CONLEY stated his position on the bank question. He had been
                                    unjustly charged with being friendly to the free banks. No
                                    Senator on this floor was more averse to their worthless trash
                                    than himself, &c.
                                Mr. JONES, explaining, said: Mr. President, it is admitted on all
                                    sides that the question now under consideration, is one of vast
                                    importance. I desire, therefore, briefly to give some of the
                                    reasons that will influence me in giving my vote. First, I
                                    desire not to undo the work of a former Legislature without some
                                    intimation from those I represent, that they desire such work
                                    undone. The charter that is now proposed to be repealed was
                                    granted by a former Legislature. Under that charter, banking has
                                    commenced; banking-houses have been purchased, and many business
                                    transactions entered into; bank bills have been issued, and such
                                    bills to a large amount, are now in the hands of the people. I
                                    know but little, personally, as to how that charter was
                                    obtained, yet I have no doubt but that improper influences
                                    contributed to that result, and that the great representative
                                    principle, peculiar to our form of government, was violated by
                                    the Legislature in granting that charter.
                                I am aware also that the people I represent on this floor, in
                                    1855 and 1856 were almost united in hoping that our courts would
                                    decide against the validity of that charter. They, when they
                                    became aware of the frauds practiced in obtaining that charter,
                                    were indignant, and for a time looked upon the issues of that
                                    bank with distrust. Since that time, however, the stock in that
                                    bank has changed hands. Responsible men, and men of known
                                    financial skill and integrity control that institution and the
                                    consequence is, no one now refuses the paper of that bank; its
                                    circulation has become general and the agricultural portion of
                                    our people regard it as far more safe than any bank in Indiana.
                                    Notwithstanding: all the care and deliberation in framing and
                                    guarding the free bank law in Indiana and in other States, the
                                    losses to the bill holder have been frequent and disastrous;
                                    hence a large portion of the people of Indiana look upon the
                                    issues of free banks with distrust and doubt and indulge the
                                    hope and belief that the Bank of the State will furnish a safe
                                    and secure circulating medium. I am not willing at this time to
                                    destroy and dissipate that hope. I am not willing, by any act of
                                    mine, to create distrust and suspicion against an institution in
                                    our own State, when I know that suspicions thus created, would
                                    advance and promote the interests of institutions in other
                                    States, where the security of the bill holder is not more
                                    reliable than the Bank of the State of Indiana. I would not,
                                    however, be understood to admit that we have not the right -
                                    that the Legislature has not the right to repeal the bank
                                    charter. I make no such admission, and whenever I am convinced
                                    that the public interest demands a repeal of the charter, then I
                                    will vote for the repeal.
                                But, Mr. President, some Senators on this floor manifest much
                                    feeling on this question. They say that fraud and selfishness
                                    procured the charter of this bank, therefore it ought to be
                                    repealed. They argue the question as though a few prominent
                                    individuals were alone concerned or interested in this question.
                                    Were this true, I would not hesitate to vote with them for the
                                    repeal. If by so voting, the consequences, however fatal, were
                                    to fall alone upon those few prominent men, I say I would not
                                    hesitate for one moment. They, no doubt, deserve it all, and
                                    more, but I am not willing to jeopardize the interests of the
                                    honest thousands in an attempt to punish a few dishonest men. I,
                                    therefore, shall vote against the bill.
                                Mr. LINE, in explanation, said he found constitutional authority
                                    for this charter. It had been passed; and the Courts, he
                                    understood, had decided that the Legislature have no power to
                                    take away franchises thus conferred.
                                Mr. MILLER, in explanation, said: Mr. President, I have made no
                                    speech on this subject, nor do I desire to make one; but perhaps
                                    I should explain my vote, and especially as it has become the
                                    habit. Perhaps no Senator on this floor has given more votes on
                                    the subject of banking in the last eight or nine years than
                                    myself. While that subject occupied the attention of the
                                    Constitutional Convention for thirteen days, I uniformly voted
                                    for the free banking principle, as against State banking; and in
                                    the revising Legislature I voted for the Free Banking Act. I was
                                    and am opposed to the principle of State banks, as all my votes
                                    show, and in giving this vote it may seem not to be in keeping
                                    with my former votes. But this bank is now in operation, and its
                                    paper is circulating all over the country, and at this time, I
                                    think, to repeal the charter, would much embarrass the financial
                                    condition of our people. On that account, I vote to indefinitely
                                    postpone the bill, pledging myself to vote for any healthy
                                    amendments that may come up in any bill for amending the
                                    charter.
                                Mr. RICE, explaining, said: Mr. President: Not having sought or
                                    desired to take part in the discussion of this question, which
                                    has occupied too much of the time of the Senate, yet I feel it
                                    due to myself and to my constituents, to give briefly the
                                    reasons which influence me in casting my vote for the indefinite
                                    postponement of this bill. They are as follows: 1st. I deem it
                                    to be a principle of sound policy as well as of settled law,
                                    that neither the Legislature nor the courts of the country have
                                    any right to go behind the journals of the Legislature to
                                    inquire into the passage of any law, to ascertain what
                                    influences were brought to bear on members in the casting of
                                    their votes, &c., &c. Were such an inquiry allowed,
                                    whole statutes might be overthrown, the Legislation of the
                                    country unsettled and the most sacred rights invaded; therefore,
                                    assuming the Charter of the Bank of the State to have passed
                                    through the constitutional forms necessary to become a law, we
                                    are precluded from further scrutinizing the history of its
                                    passage. 2d. I hold it to be an incontrovertable proposition
                                    that when the terms and conditions of this bank charter were
                                    complied with by the corporators, it became a valid and binding
                                    contract between the corporation and the State, and that the
                                    rights which have accrued to the corporators under that charter
                                    are vested rights which the Legislature has no
                                    constitutional power to abridge or impair. 3d. As a question of
                                    mere policy (inde-  endent
                                    of other considerations,) I should deem it unwise and impolitic
                                    to pass this bill repealing the bank charter, which would blot
                                    out of existence some $5,000,000 of the best bank currency of
                                    the State which is now in the hands of the people - a currency
                                    in which the people have confidence and with which the great
                                    majority are satisfied. Such an act would most certainly result
                                    in the greatest financial distress and embarrassment to the
                                    people. Therefore, Mr. President, I vote aye.
                                Mr. ROBINSON, explaining, begged leave to say he never held on
                                    this question any other than anti-bank principles. Banking was
                                    systematized public plunder. It might not be good policy to
                                    repeal: but he held that no Legislature could bind their
                                    successors. He never could endorse the doctrine that the General
                                    Assembly of 1855 could sell out his people and this Legislature
                                    for 20 years.
                                Mr. STEVENS: I vote for the indefinite postponement of the bill,
                                    for the reasons, 1st, That the people are satisfied with the
                                    institution as it is. It has thus far furnished a safe currency
                                    for the circulation of the State, a currency that is good in
                                    every part of the Mississippi Valley. For one, I do not wish to
                                    disturb it, until something is done on the part of its officers
                                    to destroy confidence in its management. 2d, I do not believe
                                    that any circulating medium could, for years to come, be
                                    substituted in its place, that would be as satisfactory to the
                                    people of the State as the bills of the Bank of the State of
                                    Indiana. I do not wish to be instrumental in destroying a bank
                                    that the people approve and endorse, to give place to the issues
                                    of foreign bank paper that we know but little about; and the
                                    introduction of which into the State, might prove ruinous to the
                                    best interests of its citizens. Again, the Supreme Court of the
                                    State, has decided the right of the bank to exercise its
                                    franchises, as a banking institution, for the term for which it
                                    was chartered, and I do not believe the Legislature to have any
                                    right to interfere with its operations, unless its charter is
                                    violated by the act of those who have control of it.
                                Mr. TURNER, explaining, said he had participated in the passage
                                    of this bank bill in 1855 without knowledge of undue influences
                                    to effect its passage; but recent developments satisfied him
                                    there was more or less corruption - corruption that should never
                                    be countenanced in any legislative body. Notwithstanding that,
                                    he now doubted the propriety of repealing this charter satisfied
                                    that were it repealed, before the close of the present session
                                    another bank bill would be introduced, and the same corrupt
                                    influences brought to bear upon it, and probably successfully.
                                    [Laughter.]
                                Mr. WALLACE, explaining, read from the Madison papers extracts
                                    going to show the intent of the fathers of these governments to
                                    crush out bills of credit, and secure a hard money currency. It
                                    was emphatically for the protection of the people - of his
                                    constituents - that he voted for this repeal.
                                So the bill was indefinitely postponed.
                                Mr. WAGNER moved a reconsideration of this vote, and to lay the
                                    motion to reconsider upon the table.
                                The latter motion was agreed to - yeas 28, nays 18the same as
                                    recorded above, except that Mr. Fisk did not vote. and Mr.
                                    Turner voted  No!
                                The Senate then adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             TUESDAY, February 8, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            By Mr. HUNTER: from sundry citizens of Jeffersonville, Clark county,
                                asking for a registry election law and the qualifications of voters
                                restricted to citizens of the United States, which was referred to
                                the Committee on Elections.
                            By the SPEAKER: a communication from the President of the Board of
                                Trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal, responding to a resolution of
                                the House requiring a statement of moneys paid to said Trustees on
                                account of salaries, perquisites and traveling expenses since the
                                creation of said Board; also, another communication from the same
                                source, embracing a statement of the canal lands sold and unsold
                                information hereto fore communicated in the last annual report of
                                the Board.
                            By Mr. MELLETT: from Charles D. Morgan and others, for a conventional
                                rate of interest, which was laid on the table.
                            By Mr. McLAIN: of Norman Ranstaff and others, on same subject, which
                                was laid on the table.
                            By Mr. GRIFFIN: a swamp land petition, which was referred without
                                reading. 
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITEEES.
                             Mr. COMSTOCK, from the Committee on Roads,
                                returned Mr. Hancock's bill (153) with reference to the width of
                                highways.
                            Also - Mr. Massey's bill (132) to authorize County Commissioners to
                                abolish road districts within the limits of incorporated towns ar d
                                cities, recommending their indefinite postponement.
                            The reports were agreed to.
                            Mr. EDWARDS, from the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions, returned Mr. Parks' bill (161) to repeal
                                the Colonizition Act, and the accompanying petition from sundry
                                citizens of Marshall county, recommending that they be referred to
                                the select committee on that subject.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. MELLET, from the select committee thereon, returned the bill
                                (S.144) recommending its passage, and the same was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. COLGROVE, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill
                                (119) to provide for the distribution of the Sinking Fund,
                                recommending ts passage.
                            It was made the special order for Tuesday next, 10 o'clock.
                            The bill (S. 102) to amend the act establishing the several districts
                                of the Court of Common Pleas, &c.,(re-districting the entire
                                State) coming up, it was passed the first reading.
                            The bill (S. 49) fixing time of Courts in the 5th Judicial Circuit,
                                was passed the first reading.
                            On motion by Mr. CAVINS, (under a suspension, ) it was read the
                                second time by title, and ordered to a third reading.
                            The bill (S. 172) fixing Court time in the First Judicial Circuit,
                                and - 
                            
                            The bill (S. 142) to amend the appraisement act of 1852were severally
                                ordered to the third reading to-morrow. 
                        
                        
                            FUGITIVES FROM JUSTICE.
                             Mr. TURPIE, (under a dispensation of the orders,) returned from the
                                select committee thereon, Mr. Hamilton of Wayne's bill, with an
                                amendment by way of substitute.
                            Mr. T. said: The principle of delivering up fugitives from justice to
                                other sovereignties has been recognized in this State, but not
                                hitherto regulated by statute. This amended bill provides for the
                                Governor's delivery of fugitives to the proper authorities of
                                another sovereignty, if the offense alleged be felony by common law
                                or by the laws of this State, or the State from which they have
                                fled; provided such State shall reciprocate, &c.
                            The amendment was adopted and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            M. BAIRD, (under a dispensation) returned from the Judiciary
                                Committee, his bill (134; to amend the first section of the act of
                                May 6, 1852, so as to allow a woman who has married an alien and
                                lives abroad, to hold real estate, recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. SHERMAN (under a dispensation) introduced a bill (206) to amend
                                the 36th section of the act defining misdemeanors and prescribing
                                punishment therefor(abor[?]on,) which was passed the first
                                reading.
                        
                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            The committee bills (204, 205) were referred to the
                                    Committee on Benevolent Institutions.
                            Mr. Prosser's bill (203) was referred so Messrs. Prosser, Blythe and
                                Colgrove.
                            The bill (S. 1) amendatory of the divorce laws and (S. 8)coining up
                                on the second reading they were referred to the Committee of the
                                Judiciary.
                        
                        
                            COMPANIES MAY REDUCE THEIR STOCK.
                            Mr. Mansfield's bill (147) to authorize the Board of Directors of any
                                incorporated company to reduce the amount of their capital stock and
                                the nominal value of shares thereof, and to issue certificates of
                                stock therefor, was considered and passed the final reading - yeas
                                67, nays 17, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Baird, Black, Blythe,
                                            Boyd, Boxley, Branham, Brotherton, Carr, Cavins, Clark,
                                            Claypool, Clayton, Collier, Cotton, Davis, Dobbins,
                                            Dougherty, Durham, Devol, Early, Edwards, Firestone,
                                            Fordyce, Gifford, Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall
                                            of Rush, Hamilton of Boone, Harney, Harrison, Hartley,
                                            Hunter, Jeffries, Johnston, Kempf, Knowlton, Major,
                                            Mansfield, Massey, Mellett, Merrifield, Miller, Murray,
                                            Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren,
                                            Nelson, Newton, Robinson, Scott, Sherman, Smith of
                                            Miami, Smith of Perry, Snyder, Stanley, Stanfield,
                                            Stiles, Sullivan, Tebbs, Thompson of Elkhart, Thompson
                                            of Madison,Turpie, Usrey, Waterman, Whetzel and Mr.
                                            Speaker- 67.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Comstock,
                                            Jones, Keefer,Kelly, Lawhead, Lewis, McLain, Parks,
                                            Prosser, Row, Shields, Shockley, Wheeler, Whiteman,
                                            Wildman and Wood-17.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. BAIRD (under a dispensation,) returned from the
                                    Judiciary Committee the bill (158) to provide
                                for the management of the estates of persons who have absented
                                themselves without making provision for the support of their
                                families, recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Brotherton's bill (39) to amend the 37th section of chapter 6, of
                                the 2d volume of the Revised Statutes, which had hitherto failed for
                                want of a constitutional majority, coming up again on third reading
                                - 
                            Messrs. HAMILTON of Boone, PROSSER and THOMPSON of Madison,
                                considered this legislation unnecessary. You could not sell cake or
                                a watermelon within two miles of a religious meeting, without
                                permission of those controlling such meeting, &c.
                            This vote was reported - yeas 38, nays 39 as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Black, Branham,
                                            Brotehrton, Carr, Cavins, Clark, Collier, Comstock,
                                            Fordyce, Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush,
                                            Harrison, Hunter, Jeffries, McLain, Mellett, Martin,
                                            Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Newton, Parks,
                                            Power, Robinson, Rynderson, Scott, Sherman, Shockley,
                                            Smith of Miami, Sullivan, Thompson of Elkhart, Waterman,
                                            Wheeler, Whiteman, Wildman, Mr. Speaker - 38.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Blythe, Boyd, Boxley,
                                            Claypool, Clayton Davis, Dobbins, Dougherty, Durham,
                                            Early, Firestone, Gifford, Hamilton of B., Hancock,
                                            Harney, Hartley, Johnston Jones, Keefer, Kelly, Kempf,
                                            Knowlton, Lawhead, Lewis, Mansfield, Massey, Merrifield.
                                            Miller, Murray, Nelson, Prosser, Row, Shields, Stiles,
                                            Tebbs, Thompson of Madison, Usrey, Whetzel, Wood -
                                            39.
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the bill was lost.
                            Mr Robinson's bill (49) to reduce the width of the Michigan road to
                                40 feet, coming [?] on the motion of Mr. MELLETT, it was refered to
                                the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Early's bill (72) to amend to enact of March 1, 1853, allowing
                                compensation for animals killed by railroads, coming up
                            Mr. HARNEY queried as to how [?] the man who allowed his stock to run
                                upon railroad tracks was the party liable. It seemed to him that
                                there should be some provision of law against this abuse of
                                privilege. He had heard of cases where parties prejudiced against a
                                railroad had salted and fed their stock on the track, and although
                                lives have been lost and damage to machinery sustained, from such
                                wilful negligence, the bill assumes that they are not liable for
                                these irreparable injuries and damages. He would like to have a
                                report on the bill. There bad been court decisions holding the
                                owners of such stock to a certain degree of responsibility.
                            Mr. EARLY. When individual interests are at stake, we meet as
                                individuals. It is a custom of the country for stock to run at
                                large, and the only question here to determine is, whether these
                                soulless corporations are to have exemption from the effects of this
                                custom. However, believing the bill embraced a just principle, and
                                desiring that it should be perfected in detail, he would move to
                                reconsider the vote ordering its engrossment, that it may go to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.
                            This course was taken by consent.
                            Mr. Mellett'sbill (82) regulating practice in cases appealed to the
                                Supreme Court, coming up, it was passed the final reading - yeas 65,
                                nays 11.Mr. Cavin'sbill (85) for relief of Peter Shultz, was passed
                                the final reading - yeas 77, nays 1.
                            Mr. Stiles' bill (88) to amend the practice act, so as make sureties
                                as well as principals liable on forfeited recognizances - was
                                rejected on the final reading - yeas 23,nays 55.
                            Mr. Jeffries' bill (102) authorizing travel free of toll to worship
                                on Sunday, coming up - 
                            
                            Mr. MELLETT and Mr. PROSSER regarded the provision of the bill unjust
                                to turnpike stockholders, and as liable to abuse.
                            Mr. JEFFRIES He represented a county (Wayne) having more turnpikes
                                than all the balance of the State, and many stockholders were
                                petitioners for this bill.
                            Mr. FIRESTONE would have no toll-gates on the way to Heaven.
                            Mr. RYNERSON was ever on the side of the people before soulless
                                corporations.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK. During the extra session he had voted for such a bill
                                as this, and that vote did not meet with favor in his county. The
                                plank roads in his county were non-paying. The proceeds would hardly
                                keep up the roads. Under these circumstances he should now vote
                                against the bill.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD was in favor of the principle of the bill, but it ought
                                to be in the charters of the roads.It would hardly be just to
                                infringe chartered rights.
                            Mr. GIFFORD should vote against the bill for a similar reason. It was
                                an easy matter, in most cases, for church-going people to make
                                arrangements with road companies to go and return without toll.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, also opposed the bill from the consideration
                                of abuses to which the Dill would be liable. He requested the Clerk
                                to read an argument against it from the Richmond
                                    Palladium. This matter should be left in the discretion of
                                the companies.
                            Mr. JEFFRIES replied, giving the origin of the Palladium article - got up for the benefit of a company to
                                which a portion of the National Road had been given up. There was a
                                statute against false pretenses at toll gates, &c.
                            Mr. DAVIS queried the legal right involved.
                            Mr. LAWHEAD, concurring with Mr. Jeffries, demanded the previous
                                question, and under its force the bill was rejected - yeas 38, nays
                                40 as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Black, Boxley,
                                            Carr, Cavins, Claypool, Clayton, Colgrove, Edwards,
                                            Firestone, Hall of Grant, Hancock, Harney, Harrison,
                                            Hartley, Jeffries, Johnston, Kelly, Lawhead, McLain,
                                            Newton, Parks, Robinson, Row, Rynerson, Scott, Sherman,
                                            Shields, Snyder, Stanley, Sullivan, Tebbs, Thompson of
                                            Elkbart, Usrey, Waterman, Whiteman, Wood and Mr. Speaker
                                            - 38.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Baird, Blythe, Boyd,
                                            Branham, Brotherton. Clark, Collier, Comstock, Davis,
                                            Dobbins, Dougherty, Durham, Early, Fordyce, Gifford,
                                            Hall of Rush, Hunter, Jones, Keefer, Kempf, Knowlton,
                                            Lewis, Major, Mansfield, Mellett, Merrifield, Martin,
                                            Nebeker of Ver-million, Neeker of Warren, Nelson,
                                            Prosser, Shockley, Smith of Miami, Smith of Perry,
                                            Stanfield, Stiles, Thompson of Madison, Wheeler, Whetzel
                                            and Wildman - 40.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz: the consideration of
                                Mr. Davis' bill (1) to provide for the taking of the sense of the
                                qualified voters of the State on calling a convention to alter,
                                amend or revise the Constitution of the State, and called Mr. Turpie
                                to the Chair.
                            Mr. DAVIS moved to refer the bill and amendment to a select
                                committee.
                            Mr. EDWARDS objected to the bill, that the election was not a general
                                election; and because he did ot like the basis of representation. He
                                could not support it without these amendments.
                            The bill was then referred to Messrs. Davis' 2d District; Blythe,
                                1st; Branham, 3d; Durham, 4th; Mellett, 5th; Dougherty, 6th;
                                Edwards, 7th; Hamilton of Boone, 8th; Stanfield, 9th; Waterman,
                                10th; Comstock, 11 th.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, (under a suspension of the orders) submitted
                                the following, which was adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS, There are many provisions of
                                            the Constitution of the State of Indiana that are
                                            defective, rendering legislation under it difficult,
                                            expensive, tedious, and in some respects impossible, or
                                            at least inadequate to the emergency of the case, or the
                                            wants of the citizens, restricting remedies that would
                                            tend to the public good.
                                        AND WHEREAS, In the opinion of this
                                            House, it would manifestly be to the interest and
                                            welfare of the people of this State to have said
                                            defective provisions amended, and said Constitution as
                                            nearly as possible perfected; therefore, be it
                                        Resolved, That a committee of one from
                                            each Congressional District be appointed to draw up and
                                            report to this House such amendments to said
                                            Constitution as may be thought advisable and necessary
                                            to be submitted to this General Assembly in conformity
                                            with the provisions of the sixteenth article of said
                                            Constitution.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. MANSFIELD, (under a suspension,) submitted the following, which
                                was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Education  be instructed to inqure into
                                            the expediency of supplying the libraries of the
                                            principal colleges in the State with copies of all
                                            legislative documents as they appear in print; and to
                                            devise a plan for the transmission of the same.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. LAWHEAD, (under a suspension,) submitted the following, which was
                                adopted: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS,The State has to pay large
                                            sums for office rent in this city: and whereas, the
                                            State owns suitable lots in good localities for pubic
                                            offices; therefore -
                                        Resolved, That the Committee on Public
                                            Buildings inquire into the expediency of putting up
                                            suitable buildings thereon for the offices of State.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HUNTER, (by consent,) introduced a bill (207) to provide for the
                                empanneling of jurors in civil and criminal cases in the Circuit and
                                Common Pleas Courts, and repealing all laws conflicting
                                therewith.
                            Mr. STANFIELD, ( by consent,) introduced a bill (208) to provide for
                                the case of removal from office by death, resignation or inability
                                to serve, of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor - declaring that
                                the Secretary of State shall act as Governor.
                            These bills were severally passed the first reading.
                            Mr. Brotherton'a bill (131) to secure the dues of private
                                corporations, (as amended by Mr. Stanfield,) was passed the final
                                reading by yeas 76, nays 0.
                            Mr. Stiles' bill, (101) to regulate practice in civil causes, in
                                taking exception to the over-ruling of demurrers[In presenting
                                errors it shall be presumed that exceptions were taken at the proper
                                time] was passed the final reading in the House of Representatives -
                                yeas 84, nays 0.
                            Mr. Early's bill (103) to amend the 49th section of the school laws,
                                to legalize assignments, [to authorize acknowledgments of the same
                                to be taken by Justices of the Peace]-was passed the final reading
                                in the House of Representatives - yeas 85, nays 0, with an amendment
                                of title by Mr. Early, viz: "An act to amend the 49th sec. of the
                                act to provide for a general system of common schools, &c.,
                                approved March 5, 1856, and to legalize the acts of certain officers
                                therein named."
                            
                             The Judiciary Committee's bill (133) to amend the
                                act amendatory of the 65th and 66th sections of the act providing
                                for the settlement of decedents' estates, prescribing the rights and
                                duties of officers in the management thereof, and of heirs thereto,
                                and certain forms therein, approved June 17, 1852, and the act
                                supplemental thereto approved February 20, 1855, was passed the
                                final reading in the House of Representatives - yeas 84, nays 0.

                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                By Mr. MELLETT: A bill (209) to amend the 38th section of the act
                                    defining felonies, and punishment therefor(professional
                                    gambling,) approved June 10, 1852.
                                By Mr. BLYTHE: AU act (210) to create the 14th Judicial
                                    Circuit.
                                By Mr. DEVOL: A bill (211) to amend sections 2, 3,4, 7, 8, 9 of
                                    the act regulating the fees of officers, and repealing acts in
                                    relation thereto.
                                By Mr. WATERMAN: a bill (212) prescribing part of the duties of
                                    county auditors and treasurers, township clerks and supervisors
                                    of roads, in relation to road tax, and providing penalties for
                                    any failure on the part of said officers to discharge any of
                                    their duties as prescribed in this act, [to same fees for
                                    collecting road receipts.]
                                By Mr. HARTLEY: a bill (213) to amend the 27th section of the act
                                    (of 1852) providing for the valuation and assessment of real and
                                    personal property for the collection of taxes, for the election
                                    of township assessors, &c., [so that persons may deduct
                                    their indebtedness from solvent claims, moneys on hand or
                                    personal property, instead of as now from solvent claims.]
                                By Mr. DURHAM: a bill (215) to amend the 441st section of the
                                    Practice Act of June 18, 1852, so as to compel sheriffs to levy
                                    on real and personal property as designated by the judgment
                                    debtor.
                                By Mr. FORDYCE: a bill (215) to provide for the location and
                                    working of highways situated upon county lines.
                                By Mr. KEMPF: a bill (216) to prevent intermarriages of
                                    consanguinity.
                                By Mr. STANFIELD: a bill (217) in relation to the levy of
                                    execution or attachment in partnership property for the
                                    individual debt of one of the partners.
                                By Mr. MURRAY: a bill (218) to fix the times of holding the Court
                                    of Common Pleas in the district composed of the counties of
                                    Elkhart and Lagrange.
                                By Mr. GRIFFIN: a bill (219) for the relief of Ira O. Dibble.
                                By Mr. SHIELDS: a bill (220) to amend the title of the act to
                                    vest certain rights in married women whose husbands have left
                                    the State without making suitable provision for their
                                    maintainance, or who have been confined in the State Prison.
                                By Mr. SNYDER: a bill (221) to fix the time of holding the
                                    Circuit Court in the 12th Judicial Circuit, regulating the terms
                                    thereof, and repealing all acts conflicting therewith.
                                By Mr. CAVINS: a bill (222) to amend section 42 of the act to
                                    establish a Court of Common Pleas, &c., approved May 14,
                                    1853, so as to regulate the docketing and disposal thereof.
                                By Mr. CAVINS: a bill (223) to amend section 1 of the act
                                    providing for the selection and empanneling of petit jurors in
                                    the Courts of Common Please, providing compensation therefor
                                    being supplementary to the act of May20, 1852, and March 1,
                                    1853, so as to the time when such jurors shall be
                                    empanneled.
                                By Mr. WILDMAN: a bill (224) to prevent the spread of the Canada
                                    Thistle, prescribin penalties for permitting the same to mature
                                    on the public highways, and for spreading the same by selling
                                    the seed thereof mingled with other seeds.
                                By Mr. KNOWLTON: a bill (225) to amend the 94th section of the
                                    act to provide for the valuation and assessment of real and
                                    personal property, and the collection of taxes in the State of
                                    Indiana, &c.
                                By Mr. MARTIN: a bill (226) to amend section 8 of the act to
                                    authorize and limit allow, ances by Courts and Boards, and
                                    drafts upon the Countv Treasurer, approved May 27, 1852.
                                By Mr. HARNEY: a bill (227) to amend the act authorizing the
                                    locating, laying out and vacating of lanes, alleys, streets and
                                    squares, ma king out and recording plats of towns, and providing
                                    for change of the names of towns, &c. approved May 20,
                                    1852.
                                By Mr. WATERMAN: a bill (228) to provide for the collection of
                                    the surplus revenue fund belonging to the counties of Dekalb,
                                    Lake and Wells, on loan in the State Treasury, and for the
                                    payment of said fund over to said counties.
                                By Mr. SNYDER: abill (229) to amend the 76th section of the act
                                    defining misdemeanors and prescribing punishment therefore,
                                    approved June 14, 1852.
                                By Mr. MAJOR: a bill (230) to amend section 143 of the assessment
                                    act of Jane 21.1852[so as to require the delinquent land tax
                                    list to be copied and posted on the court house door, and a copy
                                    of the delinquent list of each township in the county to be
                                    posted in the most public places in each township, instead of
                                    the same being printed three times in a newspaper.]
                                By Mr. KNOWLTON: a bill (231) prescribing the duties of parties
                                    commencing, prosecuting or defending suits or actions in the
                                    Circuit Court or in the Court of Common Pleas in this State.
                                By Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone: a bill (233) to amend the 10th section
                                    of the act to establish a Court of Conciliation, prescribing
                                    rules for proceeding therein, and the compensation of the judges
                                    thereof.
                                By same: a bill (233) to amend the 3d section of the act
                                    providing for the election and prescribing certain of the duties
                                    of county surveyors, approved June 17, 1852.
                                By Mr. WATERMAN: a bill (234) to provide for taking appeals from
                                    the decisions of township officers having charge of the Common
                                    School Funds, to the countv auditor.
                                By Mr. USREY: a bill [235] to amend section 6 of the act of May
                                    31, 1852, in relation to county auditors, and adding a section
                                    thereto, authorizing county auditors to use the seal of their
                                    county in certain cases.
                                By Mr. SNYDER: abill [236] fixing the times of holding the Court
                                    of Common Pleas in the 
                                    counties of Warren, Benton, and Jasper, and regulating the terms
                                    thereof.
                                By Mr. MURRAY: a bill [237] to amend the act of May 14. 1852,
                                    establishing a Court of Common Please, &c.
                                By Mr. KEMPF: a bill (248) to authorize the erection of a house
                                    of refuge for penitent prostitutes.
                                By Mr. WATERMAN: a bill (239) requiring jury causes to be tried
                                    first in the courts of this State, and requiring the regular
                                    pannel to be discharged as soon as the jury causes shall be
                                    disposed of, and providing for calling a jury from amongst the
                                    by-standers:
                                By Mr. KNOWLTON: a bill (240) to amend the 13th section of the
                                    act providing for the election and qualification of justices of
                                    the peace, &c., defining their powers and duties in civil
                                    causes.
                                By Mr. MURRAY: a bill (241) to amend the97th section of the
                                    practice act, of June 18,1852:
                                These bills were severally passed the first reading.
                            
                            
                                POSTAGE STAMPS.
                                 On motion by Mr. KNOWLTON, amended by Mr. COMSTOCK, it was - 
                                Ordered, That the Doorkeeper buy three dollars
                                    worth of postage stamps to each member of the House of
                                    Representatives, and deliver the same at his desk.
                                The SPEAKER laid before the House the memorial of the Warren
                                    Township Horse-thief Detecting Company, against the repeal ot
                                    the law of their organization, which was referred to the
                                        Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                                Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, from the select committee thereon,
                                    returned his bill (143) to legalize the appraisement of city
                                    property under the act of March 9, 1857, recommending
                                    passage.
                                The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                                Mr. PROSSER, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill
                                    (203) to amend the 103d section of the Assessment Act; [changes
                                    the time of settlement from the first Monday in August to the
                                    15th day of October;] recommending passage.
                                The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                                On motion by Mr. HARNEY, the bills numbered 93, 94, 95, 96,
                                    reported by the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                    were made the special order for Thursday 10 o'clock.
                                The House, at 4:30 o'clock, adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    


                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, February 9, 1859. 
                        
                         Mr. McLEAN said that he had received through the Post office a pamphlet,
                            entitled "Prophecy Explained" directed to the Chairman of the
                                Judiciary Committee of the State of Indiana He
                            moved its reference to the Judiciary Committee
                            without reading.
                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore entertained the motion, and
                            it was so referred.
                        
                            THE CALENDAR.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to dispense with the regular order of business and
                                take up the orders of the day - being bills on their third
                                reading.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. Turner's bill (13) to amend the swamp land act approved May 29,
                                1852, [taking the power to appoint Swamp Land Commissioners from the
                                Governor and giving it to the County Commissioners] was read.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to strike out the emergency clause.
                            Mr. TURNER objected.
                            [A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of
                                Mr. Slack's bill (84) fixing the time of holding Common Pleas Courts
                                in Huntington and Wells; also Mr. Beeson'a bill (144) to extend the
                                time of holding Courts in the 13th Judicial Circuit.]
                            Mr. MILLER could not see the necessity of the passage of the bill
                                under consideration. It does not change the law as to the management
                                of the swamp land fund or interest. Now if the gentleman from Lake
                                had introduced or will introduce a bill to put the swamp land
                                interest of each county under the entire control of the respective
                                county boards, I am with him. I will heartily vote for any measure
                                that will give the county boards full control over the swamp lands
                                of their respective counties. I would in fact be glad to see the
                                swamp land matter wound up so far as the State is concerned, the
                                State officers making immediate settlements with the swamp land
                                officers of the several counties, and setting to the credit of the
                                State its dues for expenses as provided by law, then transferring
                                the control of the balance to the counties where it properly
                                belongs. But why make this alteration, so long as the State remains
                                a trustee for the safe keeping, and the State officers the financial
                                agents for receiving and paying out all swamp land funds.
                            Mr. TURNER stated that frauds had been perpetrated under the
                                appointing power of the Governor, which were a burning shame to the
                                State, and he knew the Governor was known to the facts - it could
                                not be otherwise.
                            Mr. ANTHONY and Mr. GOODING expressed themselves in favor of the
                                passage of the bill.
                            Mr. CONNER said if the appointing power was to be used by the
                                Governor to subserve private purposes - for the benefit of relatives
                                - he was prepared to vote for a change of this appointing power.
                            The bill was then finally passed the Senate by yeas 40, nays 8.
                            Mr. Conner's bill (17) for the partition of real estate - allowing
                                County Commissioners to lay off streets and alleys on lands
                                adjoining towns, where any of the owners thereof may be minors was
                                read and finally passed the Senate - yeas 48, nays 0.
                            Mr. Bobbs' bill (170) fixing the time of holding Courts of Common
                                Pleas in Marion county, was read.
                            On motion by Mr. BOBBS, a substitute was adopted; the rules suspended
                                - yeas 45, nays 0 and the bill passed the final reading by yeas 46,
                                nays 0.

                        
                        
                            SPECIAL ORDER.
                            The PRESIDENT pro tempore now announced the special
                                order for this hourMr. Bobb's bill (25) providing for the redemption
                                and purchase of Indiana and other State stocks and United States
                                stocks [by the Sinking Fund moneys] the question being on Mr.
                                Studabaker's substitute providing for the distribution of the
                                Sinking Fund  common school
                                purposes among the several counties of the State - excepting so much
                                as may be necessary to pay the back bonds.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON spoke in favor of the substitute proposed, submitting
                                figures clearly proving to his mind the advantages of the substitute
                                over and above the investment proposed by the original bill.
                            Mr. HENDRY argued that a distribution of this fund as proposed by the
                                substitute was far preferable to the investments proposed by the
                                original bill.
                            Mr. MURRAY thought the investments proposed by the bill would be the
                                means of increasing the school fund $1,000,000 within a few years.
                                He thought the proposition was a fair one, and hoped the Senate
                                would give it due consideration. We have got to keep up the Sinking
                                Fund until 1866, or until these bank bonds are paid, and why not
                                make the profitable investments proposed? He was opposed to the
                                dividing up and frittering away of this fund among the several
                                counties of the State, and was in favor of gradually investing this
                                fund in the stocks of the State.
                            Mr. LOMAX expressed himself in favor of the substitute.
                            Mr. CRAVENS [Mr. Hendry in the Chair] was anxious, ready and willing
                                to appropriate this fund in the way which would tend the most toward
                                the advancement of the interests of the School Fund of the State. He
                                would like to see the fund distributed, but as that was a
                                proposition in his opinion which could not be entertained at this
                                time, the investments proposed by the bill under consideration would
                                certainly be the most secure. This fund can not be distributed until
                                the last bond due on the subscription by the State to the bank shall
                                have been re deemed, and therefore he could not support the
                                substitute of the Senator from Adams, [Mr. Studabaker.]
                            Mr. WAGNER said he should vote for the bill of the Senator from
                                Marion [Mr. Bobbs.] He thought the substitute proposed a continually
                                wasting away of the fund, both principal and interest. He did not
                                think the bill went far enough, yet it would answer for the next two
                                years, when he hoped to be able to vote for a better one. He wanted
                                the whole fund sunk in the debt of the State, the State being
                                responsible for the principal and paying the interest. After 1861 he
                                was in favor of putting every dollar that comes into this fund,
                                above what is needed to pay bonds, directly in the treasury of the
                                various counties of the State to be expended for common school
                                purposes.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON could not see why gentlemen wanted to take this school
                                fund from the Commissioners when it is paying 7 per cent, and invest
                                it in bonds which would pay but 6 percent This Sinking Fund was
                                paying far better under its present management than it would by the
                                bill "under consideration; it is as safe as though it were invested
                                in bonds; and if the substitute to the bill were not adopted, he was
                                in favor of letting the law remain just as it stands.
                            Mr. ANTHONY thought it would be well to dispose of all Sinking Funds
                                belonging to the State in order to clear the lobby of a set of men
                                who were always there trying to get at these moneys. For this and
                                other reasons which he submitted in a twelve minute speech, he
                                favored the substitute of the Senator from Adams.
                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions had leave of absence for the remainder of
                                the day.
                            And then the Senate took a recess till two o'clock.

                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. HILL, by unanimous consent, offered the following resolution,
                                which was adopted, nemine contradicente:
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Door-keeper be
                                            directed to furnish each member and officer with three
                                            dollars in postage stamps to enable them to distribute
                                            public documents. 
                                    
                                
                            

                            
                                WABASH AND ERIE CANAL
                                Mr. LINE, by consent, offered the following preamble and
                                    resolution, which were adopted by consent: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            WHEREAS, The Federal Government
                                                did donate to the State of Indiana, a large lot of
                                                land to aid said State in the prosecution of the
                                                Wabash and Erie Canal;
                                            AND WHEREAS, The State of Indiana,
                                                owing to her financial embarrassment, did convey to
                                                her bond holders said Canal, and the lands which had
                                                been donated by the Federal Government, yet unsold,
                                                as a consideration in full of one-half of her State
                                                debt;
                                            AND WHEREAS, The Trustees of said
                                                Canal have announced their intention to abandon said
                                                Canal;
                                            AND WHEREAS, It is uncertain to what extent the State
                                                of Indiana is involved or may become involved, or
                                                liable on account of said abandonment, either to
                                                individuals or to the State of Ohio, in case of said
                                                abandonment; therefore,
                                            Resolved, That a committee of five
                                                be appointed, whose duty it shall be to investigate
                                                the whole affair as connected with the transfer of
                                                said Canal, and report the extent (if any) to which
                                                Indiana is liable, either to individuals as lessees
                                                of water power, or to the State of Ohio, and that
                                                they report to the Senate at as early a day as
                                                practicable; and be it further
                                            Resolved, That for the purpose of
                                                aiding said committee in a full and free
                                                investigation of all the facts in the case that they
                                                have free access to all the public record of the
                                                State touching this matter.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                DISPOSITION OF THE SINKING FUND
                                 The Senate resumed the consideration of the subject pending at
                                    the time of the recess.
                                Mr. STEVENS was in favor of disposing of this fund so that each
                                    county may have the management of a share of it. He objected to
                                    the original bill because he did not believe the people would be
                                    satisfied with it, and that it was a blow against their very
                                    best interests. He did not believe the fund could be better
                                    secured than by loaning it to the counties of the State and
                                    taking mortgages upon real estate at one-half its valuation.
                                Mr. HEFFREN thought the substitute would be impracticable at this
                                    time. He objected to the distribution of this fund until the
                                    plighted faith of the State be redeemed by the taking up of our
                                    bank bonds. As between the original bill and the substitute, he
                                    was in favor of the bill. The best thing we can do is to pass a
                                    law for the redemption of these bonds; and after that, let some
                                    just disposition be made of this fund. He was in favor of that
                                    principle which will most conduce to the interests of the whole
                                    people of the State of Indiana.
                                Mr. COBB thought this fund should be distributed; and he believed
                                    it could be so disposed of,  with as much security as it is now managed. Indeed there can
                                    not be any loss, if the law is carried out providing that no
                                    money shall beloaned on a security of real estate unless it
                                    exceeds in value the amount of money loaned, by one half, and
                                    that no perishable improvements shall be taken into the account.
                                    If this money is vested as provided for in the original bill it
                                    can not subserve the interests of the people to such a degree as
                                    if disposed of as proposed int he substitute. Under the present
                                    law this fund is not equally distributed it seems to be given to
                                    those residing near here, to the exclusion of citizens residing
                                    at a distance from the capital.
                                This objection would be overcome by the adoption of the
                                    substitute proposed.
                                Mr. ROBINSON - between the two propositions submitted for the
                                    disposition of the Sinking Fund - could not see how Senators
                                    could object to he one which proposes the distribution. He was
                                    in favor of letting the people of Indiana have the use of this
                                    $3,000,000 that belonged to them.
                                [A message was received from the House announcing the adherence
                                    of that body to its amendment to the shinplaster bill (H. R.
                                    12.)
                                Mr. HEFFREN, by leave, subsequently made a motion, which was
                                    agreed to, that a committee of conference be appointed on the
                                    part of the Senate, which is made to consist of Senators
                                    Heffren, Tarkington and Kinley.]
                                Mr. BOBBS was heard in a few remarks in reply to arguments urged
                                    by Senators in opposition to his bill.
                                Mr. STUDABAKER was also heard in answer to objections urged
                                    against his substitute for the bill.
                                The further consideration of this subject was informally passed
                                    over on account of the absence of several Senators who desired
                                    to be present when the vote should be taken.
                                Mr. WALLACE, by leave, from the Committee on Military Affairs,
                                    returned his bill (149) for the organization of the militia of
                                    the State, &c., recommending its passage. The report was
                                    concurred in, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                                On motion by Mr. WILSON, the bill (H. R. 23) legalizing the acts
                                    of a Justice of the Peace of Jackson county, to whom a
                                    commission was issued without the affixing of the signature of
                                    the Governor, was taken up, read the first, second and third
                                    time, and finally passed the Senate by yeas 37, nays 1.
                                Mr. ANTHONY, by leave, introduced a bill (182) to abolish the
                                    Court of Common Pleas, &c.
                                Mr. ANTHONY explained the provisions of the bill, as follows:
                                The bill proposes to change the judiciary system by depositing
                                    the power now vested in the Circuit Court and Court of Common
                                    Pleas, .in the Circuit Court and the clerk of that court, giving
                                    the Circuit Court jurisdiction over all manner of litigation,
                                    where the amount involved exceeds $100, and concurrent
                                    jurisdiction with justices, between $50 and $100.
                                It gives to the clerk of the court a limited power in the nature
                                    f the power vested in the surrogate in the State of New
                                    York-giving him power to make settlements with administrators,
                                    and to determine and settle claims in favor of and against the
                                    estates of deceased persons, requiring administrators, executors
                                    &c., to report to him in short, requiring him to settle the
                                    mere business transactions in which the intervention of a court
                                    is not necessary. Where claims and settlements are disputed by
                                    interested parties, it is the duty of the clerk to docket the
                                    case, and it goes to the Circuit Court for settlement there. It
                                    will, of course, require an increase in the number of circuits;
                                    the bill proposes 25, which would make an average of less than 4
                                    counties to each circuit. It increases the salaries of judges to
                                    $1,500 per annum, and provides a tax upon litigants by way of a
                                    docket fee, to pay the expenses of the court. The object of the
                                    bill is to decrease litigation - to remove useless courts, and
                                    consequently useless expenses; to provide a salary sufficient to
                                    secure competent talent upon the Bench, and thereby secure to
                                    the intricate and important matters which often arise in the
                                    settlement of estates, as in civil and criminal litigation, a
                                    just, uniform and enlightened determination, and will prevent
                                    their important interests from being sacrificed to ignorance and
                                    dishonesty, as now too frequently the case; to save to the State
                                    [a large amount of money] and thus relieve the tax-payer of a
                                    part of the onerous burden they are compelled to carry under the
                                    present expensive system of administering the affairs of the
                                    State.
                                On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the rules were suspended - yeas 34, nays
                                    4the bill read the first time by title only, instead of being
                                    read through by sections. It was also read the second time by
                                    title and referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                                Mr. SLACK, by leave, introduced a bill (183) in relation to the
                                    partition of real estate, which was passed the first
                                    reading.
                                On motion by Mr. MILLER, the bill (H. R. 36) fixing the time of
                                    holding courts in the 9th Judicial Circuit, was taken up, read
                                    the first, second and third time, and finally passed the Senate
                                    - yeas 38, nays 0.
                                Mr. JOHNSTON introduced a bill (184) to amend section 8 of an act
                                    in relation to County Treasurers, approved June 4, 1854, which
                                    was read the first time.
                                On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the bill (H. R. 168) to amend section 1
                                    of an act authorizing road companies to borrow money, and secure
                                    the repayment thereof by mortgage, was taken up; the rules
                                    suspended - yeas 39, nays 0-the bill read the second time by
                                    title and referred to a select committee of three, which is made
                                    to consist of Senators Heffren, Murray and Bobbs.
                                Mr. TARKINGTON introduced a bill (185) providing for the
                                    assessment and taxation of banks, brokers, stock jobbers,
                                    insurance companies, trust companies, and savings institutions;
                                    which was read by title only the first time, under a suspension
                                    of the rules - yeas 38, naye 0.
                                On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the bill was read the second time,
                                    laid on the table, and 100 copies ordered to be printed.
                                And then the Senate adjourned.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, February 9, 1859. 
                        
                        Mr. Hancock had leave of absence till Monday.
                        Mr. MELLETT, from the Committee on Banks, returned Mr.
                            Smith of Perry's bill [188] supplemental to the general banking law of
                            March 3, 1855, providing for additional security, and for the delivery,
                            surrender, exchange or sale of stocks or bonds deposited under said act,
                            recommending passage.
                        The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                        Mr. PARKS, from the Committee on Rights and
                            Privileges, returned petitions for the protection of fish in
                            the lakes - having heretofore reported a bill for that object.
                        The petitions were laid on the table.
                        Mr. MASSEY, from a majority of the same committee, returned Mr. Nebeker
                            of Warren's bill (6) to amend the second section of the act of 7th
                            March, 1857, to authorize new counties, and change county boundaries,
                            recommending that it be laid on the table.
                        Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, submitted a minority report, as follows:
                        Mr. SPEAKER - The undersigned, a member of the Committee on Rights and
                            Privileges of the inhabitants of this State, would respectfully submit
                            to the House of Representatives, his reasons for dissenting from the
                            decision of the majority of said committee in relation to the report
                            just made, on House bill No. 6, entitled "A bill to amend the second
                            section of an act approved March 7, 1857, entitled an Act to authorize
                            the formation of new counties and to change county boundaries."
                        The undersigned has not been able to find any law on any statute book,
                            that furnishes the same facility for a portion of a county to transfer
                            itself, and without notice, and without ascertaining the wish of the
                            voters of one or of the other of the counties to be effected thereby;
                            severing corporations with the wish only of the minority expressed;
                            diminishing or increasing the jurisdiction of county officers;
                            subjecting counties to be added to or diminished to suit the whims of
                            politicians and others; destroying vested rights and deranging land
                            titles.
                        The Constitution will not permit a county that has an area of over four
                            hundred square miles, to be reduced below that quantity; nor a county
                            with less than that quanty to be further reduced.
                        There are in the State thirty-nine counties that have an area of over
                            four hundred square miles, then that number of counties can be effected
                            by a reduction, and as all of these counties are surrounded by other
                            counties to which they may be attached territory, it will be seen that
                            all, or nearly all of the counties are interested in this question. We
                            have not been curious enough to hunt out the exceptions, if there are
                            any. We do not deem it proper that the lines of counties should be
                            changed, without giving the interested parties notice by advertisement
                            in a newspaper or otherwise. Yet the law as it now stands does not
                            require notice of any kind. But your statutes sufficiently guard the
                            rights of the people inroads, so as to require twenty days notice, and a
                            petition to the next session of the board of commissioners; the
                            appointment and view, and report to the next board thereafter; if any
                            objection be made by any one, the board are required to appoint
                            reviewers, whoso duty it is to assess damages and report to the next
                            board. Not so with this.
                        The section of the law proposed to be amended, provides that a majority
                            of the legal voters who shall reside in a territory whose jurisdiction
                            it is proposed to change, may change the same by petition; without
                            consulting the minority of said territory; without giving notice by
                            advertisement; without providing for a view or review of the question,
                            and without providing for the payment of damages. And all of this is to
                            be done too, without giving any means by which the wish of the voters of
                            the county to be effected thereby can be known.
                        An organized county is a corporation. The legal right to dissolve a
                            corporation by a majority only of the disaffected who
                            desire to go out of the corporation is doubted. We think the consent of
                            a majority of the corporators is imperative. If this principle is wrong,
                            why not extend the provisions of the law to States, and to townships? A
                            county can receive territory that may contain one section of land and
                            five votes, if three of said voters should petition for such change.
                            This question does affect the whole county; to
                            illustrate, take the county of Allen, she has a territory of 672 square
                            miles and can be shorn of 272 square miles, which is over one third of
                            her territory. The majority of the whole county voted a stock of
                            $100,000 for railroad purposes. Now if it is legal, is it for one third
                            of the county of Allen, after aiding by their votes to create this debt,
                            to attach itself to one or more of the six counties that touch her
                            borders, without first securing the consent of the remaining two thirds
                            of the county that would yet remain to constitute the county of Allen,
                            and to pay the whole debt, with only two-thirds of her acres upon which
                            to levy a tax; the other one-third having avoid the liability by being
                            attached to other counties?
                        By this law the jurisdiction of county officers may be reduced and their
                            rights curtailed, and that may be done by consulting a majority only of
                            the one third of the territory that to-day constitutes
                            a part of the county of Allen, but to-morrow may be taking the first
                            steps toward dissolution, To illustrate: the Recorder's jurisdiction
                            would be reduced to two thirds of its former area. Territories now
                            attached to counties, the area of which is over four hundred square
                            miles, may avoid the taxes assessed for any purpose. For example, say
                            building a court-house, by attaching itself to another county, by its
                            own action, without the consent of the tax payers of the county
                            interested in said assessment.
                         Therefore, the undersigned would recommend the passage of the bill.
                        R.M. NEBEKER
                        The House refused to concur in the report of the majority.
                        Mr. MURRAY moved to reconsider the vote.
                        Mr. HARRISON replied to the argument for the bill, submitted in the
                            minority report. The bill proposed to amend the existing law so as to
                            allow the whole county to vote on the question of the motion of the
                            people residing on the excess of territory over 400 square miles to be
                            set off, &c., instead of that portion only which maybe desirous of
                            being so transferred, and which may be legally transferred to another
                            county. He would like to hear more of the reasons tor this amendment of
                            the law, which he believed was a mere question of taxation - of the
                            exercise of arbitrary power. Were not local interests to be subserved by
                            this bill?
                        Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, argued that a county is a corporation, and denied
                            the right of a portion thereof to act in any matter affecting the whole,
                            without the consent of the majority. If the principle were good in the
                            case of counties, it would be good in the case of States. Would it be
                            proper for Warren county to vote herself into the State of Illinois? The
                            title of the statute of 1857 should have been, "An act for the purpose
                            of getting people by the ears." He gave an example of the case of the
                            County of Allen. Her people had voted $100,000 for railroad stock; and
                            it was now manifestly unjust to allow one-third of her tax payers to
                            attach themselves to another county, or other counties, and so shirk
                            their part of this responsibility.
                        Mr. DOBBINS had voted against the act of 1857, and still dissented from
                            its principle, which allows the minority thus to relieve themselves from
                            tax responsibilities.
                        Mr. MURRAY It was manifestly the effect if not the object of the bill of
                            the gentleman from Warren, to prevent the change of county boundaries.
                            He replied to the argument of Mr. Nebeker.
                        
                        Mr. FIRESTONE was glad of the opportunity to be able to vote with the
                            gentleman from Warren, and he rehearsed the case of the county of
                            Allen.
                        Mr. CLAYPOOL supported the principle of the bill and gave an example in
                            the history of the desire to change the boundary between Fountain and
                            Warren, to avoid taxation. He had no doubt there would be a change
                            effected ultimately, but he wanted it to be done fairly.
                        Mr. RYNERSON spoke against the bill, and gave an example of the necessity
                            of the application of the provisions of the present law to the desire of
                            a portion of the people of Morgan county to be attached to Putnam.
                        Mr. DOUGHERTY. These speeches disclose the working of self interest. The
                            gentleman from Howard desires a slice from Clinton;and the gentleman
                            from Putnam, a portion of Morgan county. He did not like the present but
                            as between that and the bill of Mr .Nebeker, he preferred the law as it
                            is. He gave examples. He had no doubt that a majority of the county of
                            Morgan, on proper application,would let off to Putnam the Eel river
                            portion, &c.
                        Mr. WHETZEL concurred in the latter sentiment.
                        Mr. SNYDER thought the bill might infringe the Constitution, and for the
                            purpose of reference, he hoped the vote would be reconsidered.
                        Mr. PROSSER moved to lay the motion to reconsider on the table, but
                            withheld the motion for - 
                         Mr. HARRISON, who spoke further in reply to Mr. Nebeker, and Mr.
                            Dougherty. He was interested. A portion of the county of Clinton did
                            desire to come into Howard county. But the gentleman from Warren had
                            admitted his interest in the passage of his bills, &c. Democrats
                            desire that States should shape their affairs in their own way, but here
                            they trampled under foot their own principles, as applied to the people
                            of a county. He gave examples sustaining his position and the justice
                            and wisdom of the existing law. The only question involved, was as to
                            the rights of the people within a given territory.
                        Mr. WHETZEL made an ineffectual demand for the previous question
                        Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, replied to Mr. Harrison, discussing the local
                            question as it affects the people of Fountain and Warren.
                        Mr. NEWTON. Like the gentleman from Howard, he was personally interested
                            here. He wanted a portion of Clinton county, and the people of Clinton
                            did not want to set off that portion. But a bare majority of the portion
                            proposed to be set off were in favor of it, and every man in the county,
                            outside of that portion, was opposed to it. He was a popular sovereignty
                            man, but was not in favor of setting up every township as an independent
                            sovereignty. He reasoned upon the injustice which would result from this
                            detachment of the best portion of his county. He considered that Mr.
                            Nebeker's bill ought to pass.
                        The motion to reconsider was then laid on the table, and Mr. Nebeker's
                            bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                        Mr. PARRETT (by leave) presented the petition of sundry citizens of the
                            counties of Perry and Spencer, for a new county to be formed out of the
                            territory of said counties to be submitted to the voters of said
                            counties at the general election of 1860.
                        Mr. PARRETT referred to the constitutional provision for the proposed new
                            county, stating that he presented the paper (wholly disinterested)
                            simply recognizing the right of petition; and on his motion it was
                            referred to Messrs. Smith of Perry, Jones, Parrett, Davis and
                            Blythe.
                        On motion of Mr. BAIRD, (the orders being dispensed with,) the vote
                            concurring in the Judiciary Committee's report to postpone Mr. Prosser's
                            bill No 37, was reconsidered, and the bill referred to Messrs. Baird and
                            others.

                        
                            SHINPLASTERS.
                             On motion by Mr. STANFIELD, Mr. Martin's bill (12) was taken up, and
                                he explained the amendment he had submitted to the Senate's
                                amendment to said bill, which is to the following effect:
                            Nothing in this act shall be so construed as to permit any person,
                                corporation, &c., other than the Bank of the State and the Free
                                Banks, to issue or put into circulation any such paper.
                            It was not the effect of the amendment to clothe the Bank of the
                                State and the Free Banks with authority to circulate this
                                unauthorized paper, &c. That error of construction came probably
                                from the terms of the title of the bill. That construction might be
                                given to the original bill, and his amendment was to counteract
                                that. He hoped the House would adhere, and that a committee of free
                                conference be had. He desired earnestly to stop these rag mills.
                            The House insisted on the amendment.
                        
                        
                            RECOGNIZANCE OF BONDS.
                            Mr. BROTHERTON moved a reconsideration of the vote of yesterday,
                                rejecting Mr. Stiles' bill (No. 88) to make recognizances to bind
                                the real estate of the securities as well as the principal, from the
                                date thereof.
                            Mr. STILES reasoned on the propriety and necessity of the enactment
                                proposed in the bill.
                            Mr. PARRETT admitted the plausibility of the reasoning, and replied,
                                coming to an adverse conclusion. It would take away the power of
                                giving a recognizance bond from too many persons, and it would fill
                                up the county jails, &c.
                            Mr. STILES spoke again.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, supported the provisions of the bill.
                            Mr. PARRETT. The bill might as well go a step further and require the
                                money, to the extent of the bond, to be deposited for the security
                                of its payment. He reasoned at length to show that such a loan would
                                operate oppressively and expensively. It was looking that way and
                                would be a bad law.
                            Mr. PROSSER was for the bill. The man that violated the law should be
                                punished, and if another stepped in to shield him enable him to
                                avoid the sanction of the lawlet his property pay the forfeit.
                            Mr. DAVIS would not punish a man before he is tried. This
                                incarceration for want of bail was no part of the punishment. The
                                law presumes  the innocence of
                                the accused. He had seen nothing of the ill-working of the present
                                law of which Mr. Stiles had spoken. He looked at the practical
                                operation of the bill, &c.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN was in favor of the bill and hoped the motion to
                                reconsider would prevail. Under the present law the surety could
                                convey away his property and avoid the bond after default is made.
                                He gave a case of abuse of this law, which had just come to his
                                knowledge, where property was disposed of before judgment was taken
                                on the bond, &c.
                            Mr. MURRAY was opposed to the bill, because he would not encourage
                                the common impression that a rich man can over-ride the law and
                                baffle the authority of the courts of justice. It would enlarge the
                                sphere of impunity of the man of property.
                            Mr. RITTER. It would be more inconvenient for the attorney to go bail
                                for his client, it were made impossible for him to avoid the payment
                                of the forfeited bond.
                            He thought th property of the bailor should be held from the date of
                                the bond.
                            Mr. LAWHEAD demanded the previous question, and under its force the
                                House refused to reconsider - yeas 25, nays 62, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        AYES - Messrs. Brotherton, Carr,
                                            Clark, Cotton, Devol, Early, Griffin, Hall of Grant,
                                            Hall of Rush, Harrison, Jeffries, Miller, Martin, Parks,
                                            Prosser, Ritter, Robinson, Row, Rynerson, Shockley,
                                            Stanfield, Stiles, Treadway Waterman, Wildman - 25.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Baird, Black,
                                            Blythe, Boyd, Boxley, Branham, Cavins, Claypool,
                                            Clayton, Clements, Colgrove, Collier, Comstock,
                                            Davidson, Davis, Dobbins, Dougherty. Durham, Edwards,
                                            Fordyce, Gifford, Gregory, Hamilton of Boone, Harney,
                                            Hartley, Johnston, Jones, Jordon, Kelley, Kempf,
                                            Knowlton, Lawhead, Lewis, McLean, Major, Mansfield,
                                            Massey, Merrifield, Murray, Nebeker of Vermillion,
                                            Nebeker of Warren, Parrett, Power, Scoit, Shermwn,
                                            Shields, Smith of Miami, Smith of Perry, Snyder,
                                            Stanley, Sullivan, Tebbs, Thompson of Elkhart, Thompson
                                            of Madison, Turpie, Usrey, Wheeler. Whetzel, Whiteman,
                                            Wood, Mr. Speaker - 62.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Messrs. Davis, Blythe and Martin were excused from the select
                                committee on Mr. Whiteman's bill [151], and the Speaker appointed
                                Messrs. Griffin, Tread way and Clark.
                            The bills of the Senate, Nos. 17 and 171 were passed the first
                                reading.
                            On the motion of Mr. Speaker GORDON, [Mr. Edwards in the Chair] the
                                bill [S. 170] to fix the terms of Common Pleas in the county of
                                Marion, [under a dispensation of the rules], was considered on the
                                second aud third and last reading, and passed the House of
                                Representatives - yeas 75, nays 0.
                            The bill from the Senate, No. 13, was passed the first reading.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The bill from the Senate (S. 181) was passed the first reading.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN, (by leave) from the select committee thereon, returned
                                Mr. Hunter's bill (190) to amend the 11th section of the Common
                                Pleas Act of May 14,1852, recommending passage.
                            The bill was referred to the Judiciary
                                Committee.
                            Mr. MURRRY (by leave) submitted the following: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,By this House, the Senate
                                            concurring, that the Door-keeper be and he is hereby
                                            authorized to instruct the publishers of the Brevier Legislative Sentinel to retain
                                            the copies ordered by this House for binding, as was
                                            done for the members thereof at the special session; one
                                            copy of which, when bound, shall be furnished to each
                                            member, and the balance distributed,one to each Township
                                            Library, for the use of the people; and that the members
                                            furnish said Door-keeper with the three copies of Brevier Legislative Reports already
                                            laid on their desks. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. EARLY proposed to strike out that part of the resolution which
                                assigns the Reports to the County Libraries.
                            Mr. MURRAY accepted.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush. It would be impossible, to furnish the Door-keeper
                                with the number the Reports received. Some of us have sent them
                                off.
                            Mr. MELLETT wanted to know what additional expense this would induce
                                - and spoke generally against the resolution, as leading to any
                                expense already larger than many members intended, who voted for
                                500, when it turns out that the order was for 1,100 copies, costing
                                $1,100. He also asserted that it was not a proper book for the
                                township libraries, &c. It was money thrown away to place them
                                there. 
                            Mr. MURRAY'S object in this was to give to the people reliable
                                information of the proceedings of the Legislature, which he
                                acknowledged would be thrown away unless these Reports were
                                preserved and bound. Every newspaper editor should have a copy. They
                                would prove a valuable source of information through the press. He
                                ventured to suggest to the gentleman that if he continued to be
                                observant ot the future politics of the State he would know whether
                                these Reports can be put to use or not. He would venture to say that
                                the gentleman from Henry could not be able to come before the people
                                for office without these Legislative Reports staring him in the
                                face.
                            Mr. MELLETT. If the gentleman from Elkhart desired ever to come back
                                here, he had better vote to burn these reports, than to preserve
                                them. He [Mr. M.] wanted none of them, beyond the purpose of their
                                daily publication here. He wanted them to become extinct as soon as
                                possible, and he thought gentlemen would agree with him when they
                                found out that the amount to be voted for papers in the
                                appropriation bill would run up to $5,000. He alleged that these
                                reports could not be quoted as authority. They had not been
                                authorized by resolution, and he ventured to say, if they were
                                quoted against the gentleman from Elkhart, he would deny the
                                authority.
                            Mr, MURRAY, [in his seat ] No sir.
                            Mr. MELLETT. We have not bound ourselves by any resolution
                                authorizing the reports: and suppose I deny the authority when they
                                are referred to, how will the gentleman help himself?
                            A VOICE. Go to the Journal.
                            Mr. MELLETT. Yes, to the Journal. That s a much more readable
                                document.
                            Mr. EDWARDS, interposing. If the gentleman objects to having the
                                members of the House bound by the Legislative Reports, why is it
                                that he should not be willing to have the Reports bound by the
                                House? [Laughter.]
                            
                            After further opposition by Mr. Mellett, and propositions to modify
                                the resolution by Mr. Clements, requiring the Door-keeper to keep
                                account of the copies returned to him, &c.
                            Mr. MURRAY withdrew the resolution, remarking upon the general
                                understanding, that the publishers of the Reports would be subject
                                to the order of individual members with reference to the disposition
                                of their copies.
                            Mr Blythe'sbill (210) was considered on the second reading and
                                referred to the Committee the Organization of Courts of
                                    Justice.
                            On motion by Mr. DOUGHERTY, (under a dispensation) the bill (S. 49)
                                fixing the time of the Courts in the 5th Judicial Circuit, was
                                considered and passed the final reading in the House of
                                Representatives - yeas 70, nay 0.
                            Mr. PROSSER (under a dispensation) moved to reconsider the vote
                                postponing Mr. Mellett's bill (186) to grant to the prosecuting
                                attorney the closing speech in the argument in criminal causes. In
                                most cases the prosecuting attorney was not able to cope with the
                                opposite counsel.
                            Mr. MELLETT set forth the provisions of the bill, and the reasons for
                                its passage If he had any personal interest in the matter, as a
                                lawyer, it was against the bill.
                            The vote was reconsidered, and the question recurred on concurrence
                                in the report of the Judiciary Committee, to
                                indefinitely postpone the bill.
                            Mr. MELLETT demanded the yeas and nays, which being taken, resulted -
                                yeas 32, nays 47.
                            So the House refused to postpone, and then the bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.

                            
                                ABORTION.
                                 Mr. Sherman's bill, (206) to punish the procurement of abortion,
                                    was referred to the Committee on the
                                        Judiciary.
                                Mr. PROSSER, by leave, submitted a resolution to the following
                                    effect, which was adopted, but subsequently reconsidered and
                                    rejected:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on the Judiciary
                                                inquire into the expediency of enacting a law to
                                                make penal the sale of any medicine, instrument or
                                                pill for the prevention of conception by women or
                                                the procurement of abortion; and a so to make penal
                                                the publication of any card or label for the
                                                prevention of conception or the procurement of
                                                abortion, or the publication of any advertisement of
                                                the same class with the following. [The resoluion
                                                rehearses one of the advertisements of M., the
                                                Doctor Duponceau, setting forth the properties of
                                                his Golden Pills, and the merits of his private
                                                practice.]
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                The bills by Mr. Hunter [207], Mr. Stanfield [208, 217], Mr
                                    Mellett [209], Mr. Shields [220], Mr Knowlton [231,240], Mr.
                                    Hamilton, of Boone [232], Mr.Usrey [235], and by Mr. Murray
                                    [241], were severally referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary; and Mr. Waterman's bill [239] was referred to the
                                    same committee, with instructions to inquire into the expediency
                                    of preventing any person from sitting on a jury more than once
                                    at the same term of the court, unless he is one of the regular
                                    pannel.
                                Mr. Waterman's bill [212] was referred to Messrs. Waterman,
                                    Thompson, of Madison, Martin, Jeffries and Sherman.
                                Mr. Fordyce's bill [215] was referred to Messrs. Fordyce, Harney
                                    and Comstock.
                                Mr. Hartley's bill [213], and Mr. Snyder's bill [229] were
                                    referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                        Privileges.
                                Mr. Durham's bill [214], Mr. Knowlton's bill [225], and Mr.
                                    Hamilton, of Boone's bill [233], were ordered to be
                                    engrossed.
                                Mr. Devol's fee bill [211] was referred to the Committee
                                        on Fees and Salaries.
                                Mr. Murray's bill [218], Mr. Snyder's bill [221], Mr. Cravens'
                                    bills [222, 223], and Mr. Murray's bill [237] were referred to
                                    the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts.
                                Mr. Griffin's bill [219] was referred to the Swamp Lands
                                        Committee.
                                Mr. Wildman's bill [224] was referred to Messrs. Wildman,
                                    Waterman, Murray, Wheeler and Clark.
                                Mr. Martin's bill [226], Mr. Major's bill [230], and Mr. Harney's
                                    bill [229], were referred to the Committee on County
                                        and Township Business.
                                Mr. Kempf's bill [216] was referred to Messrs. Kempf, Mellett,
                                    Dobbins, Sullivan and Shields.
                                Mr. Waterman's bill [228] was referred to Messrs. Waterman,
                                    Griffin and Shull.Mr. Waterman's bill [236] was referred to the
                                        Committee on Education.
                                Mr. Snyder's bill [236] was referred to Messrs. Snyder, Nebeker,
                                    of Warren, and Turpie.

                            
                            
                                SHINPLASTER BILL.
                                 A message from the Senate by Mr. Senator Heffren, announced the
                                    appointmeet of Messrs'. Heffren, Tarkington and Kinley, a
                                    committee of conference on the disagreeing votes between the two
                                    Houses upon the House amendment to Mr. Martin's shinplaster bill
                                    (12) and requesting the appointment of a similar committee on
                                    the part of the House of Representatives.
                                On the motion of Mr. STANFIELD, the order for this appointment
                                    was taken by consent, and the SPEAKER makes said committee on
                                    the part of the House, to consist of Messrs. Stanfield, Martin
                                    and Blythe.
                                The bill (S. 102) to amend the 3d sec. of the Common Pleas act,
                                    being considered on the second reading - 
                                Mr. MARTIN moved that it be referred to a committee of one from
                                    each Congressional District.
                                Mr. THOMPSON, of Madison, stated that his constituents were
                                    dissatisfied with that provision of the bill which would
                                    disconnect Madison with Hancock.
                                Mr. GIFFORD was in favor of Mr. Martin's motion. The bill would
                                    not suit his people.
                                Mr. CLEMENTS proposed to amend the motion to refer, so as to
                                    refer to one member from each Judicial Circuit, with
                                    instructions to make 22 out of the 44 Common Pleas districts in
                                    the State. This would make the Court of Common Pleas respectable
                                    - enable competent lawyers to take its Judgeships, and it would
                                    save expense.
                                Mr. STANFIELD was satisfied of the practicability of this
                                    suggestionthat it would save at least $10,000 annually.
                                Mr. HAMILTON of Boone, proposed 20 districts, which was agreed
                                    to, and so the instructions were adopted.
                                So the bill was referred to a select committee of one from each
                                    Judicial District, viz: Messrs.  Clements, Hamilton, of Boone, and
                                    others - not announced.
                                Mr. THOMPSON, of Madison, moved that the committee be instructed
                                    to make the counties of Madison, Hancock and Shelby to
                                    constitute one district, which was rejected.
                                Mr. PROSSER proposed instructions to make Green and Owen one
                                    district; Clay and Sullivan one district, &c.; which was
                                    laid on the table.
                                The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the
                                    Auditor of State, responding to a resolution of the House of the
                                    3d inst., embracing statements of the amounts of money audited
                                    in favor of the present Secretary of State and his predecessors;
                                    and the amounts audited and paid to all persons on account of
                                    selecting swamp lands. The total amount of these last sums paid
                                    is $9,052 50.
                                On motion of Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, the communication was
                                    referred to the Committee on Swamp Lands.
                            
                            
                                SCHOOL TOWNSHIP CORPORATIONS.
                                 On motion of Mr. STANFIELD, his bill (5) to authorize school
                                    townships, &c., was considered on the third reading.
                                Mr. STANFIELD. By the present law there is no authority for
                                    taking titles to school house lots. The titles are generally in
                                    the trustees. I think it a matter of public policy that
                                    townships should be incorporated, not only as civil townships,
                                    but as school townships; that they should be corporate bodies
                                    for the purpose of taking titles of school house lots in their
                                    corporate name. That would obviate all difficulty about the
                                    death of township trustees, who now hold these titles as
                                    individuals. That is the principal purpose of the bill. Another
                                    purpose is, that, where a school house is not occupied for the
                                    public school, it may be occupied for a private school or any
                                    public meeting under the township authorities. As the law now
                                    is, there can be no legal occupancy of the school houses, but
                                    for the common schools.
                                Mr. DOBBINS suggested a constitutional difficulty. The school
                                    houses might be occupied for religious meetings and church
                                    purposes. There was a constitutional provision, that no person
                                    shall be taxed lor the support of the faith of any religious
                                    denomination.
                                Mr. STANFIELD had that question before him. The provision of the
                                    bill was, to authorize the use of the school house for any
                                    purpose that a majority of the township shall approve,
                                    &c.
                                The bill was passed the final reading in the House of
                                    Representatives - yeas 67, nays 11.
                                The House then, at 4:40, adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             THURSDAY, February 10, 1859. 
                        
                        Mr. HENDRY, by leave, introduced a bill (186) to amend the second section
                            of an act to provide for the re-location of county seats and the
                            erection of pulic buildings in case of such relocation, which was read
                            the first and second time and referred to Senators Hendry, Cobb
                            Shoemaker, March and Wilson.
                        On motion by Mr. BROWN, the vote of yesterday on the passage of the bill
                            (H. R. 36) fixingthe time of holding courts in the Ninth Judicial
                            Circuit, was reconsidered; the bill changed so as to take effect in June
                            next, and then passed by yeas 37, nays 0.
                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate a
                            communication from the Superintedent of the Insane Hospital in reply to
                            a resolution tion of the Senate in relation to the amount of money drawn
                            by the Board of Commissioners of said Institution from the treasury of
                            Wabash county, which was referred to the Committee on
                                Benevolent Institutions.
                        Mr. HEFFREN, by leave, from a selent committee returned the bill [H. R.
                            168] to amend an act authorizing road companies to borrow money and
                            secure the payment thereof by mortgage, approved February 5,1852,
                            recommending passage, with the following amendment:
                        In line 7 after the word "iron" in the first section insert the words
                            "and any company for a manufacture of gas to supply light in any city,
                            town or village."
                        The bill was then considered as engrossed and finally passed the
                            Senate.
                        On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the bill (H. R. 95) legalizing the location
                            or change of public highways in this State, which have been made by
                            county commissioners, was taken up and passed the first reading.
                        
                            ELECTION OF UNITED STATES SENATORS.
                            Mr. ODELL,from a select committee, returned Mr. Wallace's bill (2)
                                providing for the election of United States Senators, recommending
                                its passage.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            [A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of
                                Mr. Bobb's bill (170) fixing the time of holding the Court of Common
                                Pleas in Marion county.]
                            Mr. MARCH could not agree with the concurrent vote clause in the
                                fourth section of the bill-the one which provides for a joint
                                convention of both Houses of the General Assembly and nothing else.
                                He moved to amend the bill by striking out that section.
                            Mr. HEFFREN was opposed to the amendment proposed, and moved to
                                postpone the subject till to-morrow 2 o'clock P. M.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            The PRESIDENT pro temporelaid before the Senate a
                                communication from the Attorney General, in reply to a resolution of
                                the Senate, asking the reasons why a suit in the Floyd Circuit Court
                                in the case of State vs. Newland has been dismissed, stating that he
                                had never been officially informed that any such suit had been
                                commenced or was pending, nor did he know it from any other source,
                                consequently, he did not attend to it, and can not say why it was
                                dismissed
                            Mr. RICE, from the Finance Committee, returned Mr.
                                Culver's bill (85) providing for ten per cent, interest,
                                recommending indefinite postponement. The report was concurred
                                in.
                        
                        
                            HORSE-THIEF DETECTIVES.
                            Mr. HILL, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges, to which was
                                referred so much of the Governor's message as relates to an act,
                                approved March 9, 1852, authorizing the formation of companies for
                                the detection and apprehesion
                            
                        
                    
                    
                
                
                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 15, 1859.
                        No. 11.
                    
                    
                        
                            of horse-thieves, reported a bill (187) to repeal that act.
                            Senator Wagner and Senator Rice expressed themselves as opposed to
                                the repeal of the law referred to.
                            Mr. BOBBS opposed the repeal of the law authorizing the formation of
                                associations for the detection and apprehension of horse-thieves. He
                                was willing to hear from such Senators as had objections to the law,
                                as to their reasons, and if there be abuses practiced under cover of
                                the law, see if they cannot be provided for. The recommendations of
                                the Governor are entitled to receive the consideration of the
                                Senate, but many of his most respectable constituents are opposed to
                                a repeal of the law, and he was here to represent their wishes. He
                                said there were organizations in his county embracing among their
                                members some of our best citizens, who believe they have been
                                enabled to render great service to the community in the protection
                                of their property, in the manner allowed by this law. Some of those
                                have remonstrated against the repeal, and he did not know any of his
                                constituents who are directly interested in the question, who desire
                                the repeal; he, therefore, was opposed to the repeal, and hoped the
                                Senate would not concur in the recommendation of the committee.
                            Senators Heffren and McLean were in favor of the repeal, and cited
                                the cruelties, murders and unrelenting inhumanities perpetrated
                                under this act by those regulators in Noble and Brown counties, as
                                unanswerable arguments in favor of concurring in the report of the
                                committee, and of the immediate passage of the bill recommended by
                                it.
                            Mr. GOODING dissented from the report, holding that the law itself
                                was good, but admitting that it was not properly carried out.
                            Mr. HAMILTON said the people of the region of Noble county for years
                                were under the influence of the greatest set of rascals the country
                                ever produced; but he did not justify the murder spoken of in that
                                county, as committed by the regulators. He was opposed to the repeal
                                of the law.
                            Mr. CONLEY was satisfied gross outrages had been committed under the
                                law, but that was no the fault of the law. The perpetrators of the
                                outrage alluded to as having occurred in Monroe county were composed
                                of the rag-tag and bobtail of the country round about. He did not
                                agree to a concurrence in the report of the committee, and expressed
                                the hope that it would not be made a party test. [Laughter.]
                            Mr. HILL might not vote in favor of the report; he was directed by
                                the committee to make it; had done so, and should not be
                                dissatisfied if the Senate refused to concur.
                            Mr. TURNER was opposed to the repeal of this law.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER moved to indefinitely postpone the consideration of
                                the report.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 34, nays 12.
                            Mr. MURRAY, by consent, offered the following resolution, which,
                                under the rules, lies over one day.
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the following additional
                                            rules be adapted for the government of the Senate:
                                        RULE.-Any Senator desiring to give an
                                            explanation of the reasons for his vote upon any
                                            question before the Senate, may do so before the calling
                                            of ayes and nays is commenced, and not after, without
                                            the unanimous consent of the Senate.
                                        RULE.Every Senator shall be limited in
                                            debate to not more than ten minutes at a time, and not
                                            more than twice on the same question.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. KINLEY, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Garnahan's bill (86) to amend
                                an act regulating marriage, approved March 22, 1852; and Mr. Hill's
                                bill (22) to prevent the inter-marriage of first cousins, &c.;
                                recommending that No. 22 lie on the table, and submitting a
                                substitute for No. 86 providing that all marriages between first
                                cousins or between persons of closer degrees of consanguinity which
                                may hereafter take place in this State, shall be void: and to amend
                                the title so that it shall read "An act to prevent the intermarriage
                                of blood relations."
                            Mr. CONLEY moved to amend by inserting in the proper place the words
                                "second cousins."
                            Mr. CARNAHAN was satisfied with the report of the committee.
                            Mr. GOODING concurred in the spirit of the bill - opposed the
                                marriage of blood relations, but objected to that provision which
                                makes the marriages of cousins void.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                            Mr. WAGNER moved to amend the motion by laying the whole subject on
                                the table.
                            Mr. BENNETT demanded a division of the question.
                            The amendment proposed by Mr. Conley was laid on the table by yeas
                                29, nays 16.
                            The motion to lay the bill and amendments on the table was rejected -
                                yeas 9, nays 37.
                            Mr. CONNER was not in favor of the marriage of cousins, but proposed
                                to amend as follows:
                            Provided, This act shall not affect marriage
                                contracts now existing between cousins and which have not been
                                consummated.
                            
                             Considerable merriment sprung up upon a conversational debate on
                                this amendment, when - 
                            Mr. CARNAHAN said he was sorry to see sport made of such a grave
                                matter.
                            Mr. CONNER said his amendment was offered in good faith.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN did not doubt that, but referred entirely to the mirth
                                made out of it.
                            Mr. MARCH hoped the amendment would be adopted.
                            Mr. MURRAY was in favor of the provisions of the bill.
                            Mr. HEFFREN was opposed to the amendment.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to by yeas 25, nays 21, as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Bobbs, Brown, Carnahan, Conley, Culver,
                                            Hamilton, Hargrove, Heffren, Jennings, Jones, Kinley,
                                            Line, Lomax, McLean, Murray, O'Brien, Odell, Shoemaker,
                                            Studabaker, Williams and Wilson - 25.
                                        NAYS - essrs. Cobb, Conner, Craven,
                                            Fisk, Gooding, Hendry, Hill, Johnston, McClure, March,
                                            Miller, Rice, Robinson, Slack, Steele, Stevens,
                                            Tarkington, Thompson, Turner, Wagner and Wallace -
                                            21.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. LOMAX proposed to amend by inserting in the proper place the
                                following:
                            "Provided, This act shall not take effect till
                                after the first of September, 1859."Mr, STEVENS proposed to recommit
                                with the following instructions:
                            Amend by prohibiting Clerks of Courts from issuing marriage license
                                to first cousins, and attach penalties there for by prohibiting any
                                person from performing marriage ceremonies of parties they know to
                                be first cousins, under penalties, and by subjecting all parties who
                                may apply for or obtain license and marry, who are first cousins, to
                                penalties. 
                            Mr. LINE demanded a division of the question, first upon the
                                proposition to re-commit, and then upon the instructions.
                            Mr. BOBBS said the principles of the bill are right, and the subject
                                was a proper one for legislation, but he was not satisfied that the
                                bill provided the best mode of preventing the evil. Beside this was
                                not so general as seemed to be assumed by gentlemen. Where
                                intermarriages occurred within the relationship of consanguiuity
                                named by the bill, for successive generations, the evil results were
                                manifest and very serious; but such marriages were not frequent in
                                this State, and its evil results are overrated. In older
                                communities, as in the slave States, or others where wealthy
                                arristocracies existed, and class distinctions in society had become
                                established, intermarriages among related families were more
                                frequent, and entailed misfortune upon offspring. If Senators were
                                governed by the statistics furnished by our asylums they were liable
                                to be misled, as the statistics of other nations did not sustain the
                                position.
                            The objections which present themselves to me are that the bill
                                proposes to amend the marriage contract, instead of preventing these
                                within certain degrees of consanguinity. All the parties need to do,
                                is to cross the line into some adjacent State, and have the marriage
                                solemnized there. The law would therefore fail to prevent the evil
                                to be provided against. It seems to me the law ought to provide
                                against the consumption of such marriages by opposing obstructions
                                to them. Prohibit any person from solemnizing marriages within this
                                State, and within the relationship of consanguinity proposed; and
                                any clerk from issuing licenses for such purposes, to parties so
                                related. He favored the suggestion of the amendments of the Senator
                                from Decatur, and would prefer to have the bill go to the Committee
                                of the Judiciary, to be modified and perfected in conformity with
                                these suggestions, and therefore move such recommendation.
                            The report was then referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                            On motion by Mr. CONNER the instruction were also referred to the
                                same committee.
                            On motion by Mr. WALLACE the committe were instructed to inquire into
                                the expediency of amending so as to make it a part of the affidavit
                                now required for a license, that the parties ar not cousins within
                                the meaning of the statute.
                            Mr. McLEAN, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges, returned his
                                bill (16) to amend the first section of a license act, approved June
                                15, 1852, and for the encouragement of Agriculture, &c.,
                                approved March 7, 1857, recommending its passage. The report was
                                concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. LINE, by consent, offered a resolution which was adopted by
                                consent, authorizing the State Librarian to sell the desks lately
                                used in the Senate Chamber.
                            On Mr. HEFFREN'S motion, the special order for this hour, being his
                                Cuba resolution, was postponed till Monday next, at two o'clock.

                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                The following bills were introduced and severally passed the
                                    first reading:
                                By Mr. WAGNER: (187) to authorize the Bank of the State of
                                    Indiana to lay off and create six additional bank districts and
                                    establish branches therein.
                                By Mr. MARCH: (188) to provide for oral argument and speedy
                                    decision of cases in the Supreme Court.
                                By Mr. COOPER: (189) prescribing the length of residence in
                                    count) and township, necessary to constitute a person a legal
                                    voter therein, and amending sections 21 and 22, of an election
                                    act, approved June 7, 1852.
                                By Mr. LOMAX: (190) to authorize the formation of companies for
                                    the detection and apprehension of horse thieves and other
                                    felonies, and defining their powers.
                                By Mr. HEFFREN: (191) to amend section 38 of the felony act
                                    approved June 10,1852.
                                By Mr. STEVENS: (192) regulating the public printing of the
                                    State, fixing compensation therefor and prescribing the duties
                                    of certain officers therein named.
                                The rules were suspended, the bill read the second time by title,
                                    and referred to the Committee on
                                    Printing.
                                Mr. CARNAHAN: (193) to regulate the sale of spiritous and
                                    intoxicating liquors.
                                Mr. MILLER: (194) requiring a debtor claiming benefits under an
                                    act to exempt property from sale, approved February 17, 1852, to
                                    furnish to the officer a schedule, under oath, of all property
                                         held by him or in
                                    trust for him, designating such property that is exempt.
                                On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the rules being suspended, Senator
                                    Carnahan's bill (192) was read the second time by title.
                                Mr. MURRAY moved to amend the bill so that no person "shall
                                    knowingly suffer" the liquor to be drank on his premises.
                                This amendment was agreed to by yeas 23, 20, as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                                Bennett, Blair, Carnahan, Conner, Cooper, Craven,
                                                Culver, Gooding, Green, Hargrove, Hendry, Hill,
                                                McLean, March, Murray, Rice, Robinson, Stevens,
                                                Thompson, Turner and Wagner -2 3.
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Brown, Cobb,
                                                Conley, Fisk, Hamilton, Heffren, Jennings, Johnston,
                                                Line, Lomax, McClure, Miller, O'Brien, Odell,
                                                Shoemaker, Slack, Studabaker, Tarkington, Williams
                                                and Wilson - 20.
                                             REFUSING - Mr. Bobbs.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On Mr. MURRAY'S motion the words "for every such offense" was
                                    added to the second section.
                                Mr. GOODING moved to amend the second section so that it will
                                    read "in person, or by agent to sell or barter away any
                                    spiritous or intoxicating liquors."
                                The motion was agreed to by yeas 31, nays 13.
                                Mr. GOODING moved to amend by adding a section providing that
                                    this law shall go into effect on the 1st day of May, 1859.
                                Mr. HEFFREN moved to amend by striking out "May," and inserting
                                    "July."
                                Mr. GOODING accepted.
                                The amendment was then agreed to - yeas 30, nays - 
                                Mr. SLACK moved to amend by inserting in the proper place "except
                                    for medicinal purposes."
                                On motion by Mr. GREEN, this amendment was laid on the table by
                                    yeas 28, nays 16.
                                Mr. WAGNER moved that the bill be considered as engrossed and
                                    read the third time now, and upon this motion he demanded the
                                    previous question.
                                There being a second, under its operation the bill was considered
                                    as engrossed - yeas 28, nays 18 - read the third time, and
                                    finally passed the Senate by yeas 26, nays 20 - as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Mesrs.Beeson, Bennett,
                                                Blair, Brown, Carnahan, Conner, Cooper, Craven,
                                                Culver, Gooding, Green, Hargrove, Hendry, Hill,
                                                Jones, McLean, March, Murray, Rice, Robinson,
                                                Steele, Stevens, Tarkington, Thompson, Turner and
                                                Wagner - 26.
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Anthony, Cobb,
                                                Conley, Fisk, Hamilton Heffren, Jennings, Johnston,
                                                Line, Lomax, McClure Miller, O'Brian, Odell,
                                                Shoemaker, Slack, Studabaker Wallace, Williams and
                                                Wilson - 20.
                                            Mr. Bobbs refused to vote.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. ANTHONY, when his name was called, said there was another
                                    bill pending which he believed would do more to promote the
                                    cause of temperance than the one before the Senate. He did not
                                    believe this one would amount to anything at all.
                                Mr. BOBBS, in explanation, did not know the wishes of his
                                    constituents on the subject, and would reserve his vote.
                                Mr. CONLEY, explaining, believed a large majority of his
                                    constituents was in favor of a license law. He would vote for a
                                    stringent license law, but not for this.
                                Mr. GOODING, in explanation, said he voted for this bill because
                                    he believed it was constitutional, and he should vote for all
                                    temperance bills that were constitutional.
                                Mr. HEFFREN, explaining, said he would vote for the bill if it
                                    contained a clause requiring all liquors to be pure and
                                    unadulterated.
                                Mr. LINE, explaining, had not read the bill and would not vote
                                    for it on that account.
                                Mr. MILLER, in explanation, said: I shall vote against this bill,
                                    and I desire to give some reasons for doing so. I will vote for
                                    any good temperance bill, and have been waiting patiently to get
                                    a chance to do so. Here, sir, we have been waiting on the
                                    Committee on Temperance during the whole of the extra session
                                    and over half the present. The bill that passed the House is
                                    here, and the bill recently reported by Senate committee, both
                                    ready to be taken up. Why, then, introduce a bill here and pass
                                    it through the Senate in less than one hour, and that under the
                                    gag or previous question? How can we vote understandingly on
                                    this bill which in the midst of the confusion could but very
                                    indistinctly be heard read, not even having a chance to examine
                                    it. I vote "no."
                                Mr. STUDABAKER, in explanation, said he had not examined the bill
                                    and could not vote for it till he had that opportunity.
                                So the bill passed.
                                By Mr. MARCH: (195) to enable married women to make a will.
                                Bv Mr. LINE: (196) to amend section 1 of article 8 of the State
                                    Constitutian.
                                The rules were suspended, the bill read the second time by title,
                                    and referred to the Judiciary Committee.
                                By Mr. ROBINSON: (197) to amend the act establishing the Bank of
                                    the State of Indiana, approved March 3, 1855.
                                By Mr. SHOEMAKER: (198) providing for the taxation and collection
                                    of docket fees in certain cases and the payment thereof to the
                                    County Treasury.
                                By Mr. STUDABAKER: (199) to authorize and empower Clerks of
                                    Circuit and Common Pleas Courts to enter satisfaction of record
                                    of all mortgages that may have been foreclosed and judgments
                                    rendered thereon and paid and satisfied in said courts.
                                By Mr. TARKINGTON, (200) to amend section 16 of an act limiting
                                    the number of grand jurors, approved March 6,1852: so as to give
                                    cognizance of misdemeanors to grand jurors.
                                On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the bill (H. R. 147) was read the first
                                    and second time and referred to Senators Heffren, Steele and
                                    Hill.
                                On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, his bill (145) was made the special
                                    order for ten o'clock tomorrow.
                                Mr. Bobb's bill (25) providing for the investment of the Sinking
                                    Fund in bonds, stocks, &c., coming up - the question being
                                    on the adoption of Mr. Studabaker's substitute distributing th
                                    fund in the various counties - 
                                Mr. WAGNER moved to lay the substitute on the table.

                                On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, a call of the Senate was had, and
                                    five members reported as absent.
                                On motion by Mr. TURNER, further proceedings in the call were
                                    dispensed with.
                                
                                The motion to table the substitute was then rejected by yeas 15,
                                    nays 31.
                                The substitute was then adopted by yeas 32, nays 12 - as
                                    follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Bennet,
                                                Blair, Brown. Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Conner,
                                                Cooper, Fisk, Gooding, Green, Hamilton, Hargrove,
                                                Hendry, Hill, Jennings, Johnston, Jones, Line,
                                                Lomax, Miller, Robinson, Shoemaker, Slack,
                                                Studabaker, Tarkington, Thompson, Turner, Wallace,
                                                Williams and Wilson. - 32 
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Beeson, Bobbs,
                                                Craven, Culver, Heffren, March, Murray, O'Brien,
                                                Odell, Rice, Steele and Wagner. - 12.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, the bill was referred to Senators
                                    Studabaker, Tarkington, Line, Wallace and Green.
                                Mr. GREEN moved to instruct the committee to inquire into the
                                    expediency of amending so as to correspond with the 103d section
                                    of the State Bank Charter, "That it is now the pleasure of the
                                    State to redeem its outstanding bonds" that notice be given so
                                    as the interest on the same may be stopped.
                                The motion was agreed to.
                                Mr. WAGNER moved that the committee be instructed to strike out
                                    these words in the 12th section:
                                Provided, That the congressional township fund
                                    shall not be taken into account in making such distribution.
                                These instructions were referred to the same committee as a
                                    matter of inquiry.
                                On motion by Mr. BOBB'S, his bill (112) to amend an act to repeal
                                    all general laws for the incorporation of cities. &c.,
                                    approved March 9, 1857, was taken up, read the third time and
                                    finally passed the Senate by yeas 33, nays 3.
                                Mr. JENNINGS, by leave, introduced a joint resolution (11) in
                                    relation to the African slave trade for its suppression,
                                    &c., which was referred to Senators Jennings, Heffren,
                                    Carnahan Kinley and Brown.
                                Mr. KINLEY obtained leave to vote "aye" throughout, on the
                                    Temperance bill passed this afternoon.
                                Mr. TURNER, by leave, introduced a joint resolution (12) having
                                    reference to the suppression of the revival of the African slave
                                    trade; which was referred to Senators Turner, Green, Conner,
                                    March and Anthony.
                                And then the Senate adjourned 
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             THURSDAY, February 10, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            RESOLUTIONS.
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, it was - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Corporations be instructed to inquire into
                                            the expediency of requiring all insurance companies
                                            doing business within this State whether home or foreign
                                            to make to the Auditor of State sworn semi-annual
                                            statements of the condition of their assetts and
                                            liabilities, and report, &c.
                                    
                                
                            
                             On motion by Mr. GIFFORD, it was - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Judiciary
                                                Committee be instructed to inquire whether
                                            supervisors of highways are required to include persons
                                            of color in making out a list of persons liable to work
                                            on the highways, and to report at an early day to this
                                            House.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. JONES, it was - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Ways and Means be requested to inquire
                                            into the expediency of creating a new State office, to
                                            be called a Commissioner of Immigration, and to invite
                                            immigration, and point out the best localities to each
                                            class of new comers, and help to promote their
                                            welfare.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion of Mr. JOHNSTON, it was, after preamble - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Benevolent Institutions inquire into the
                                            expediency of consolidating the several Boards of
                                            Trustees for the Asylums for the Deaf and Dumb, Blind,
                                            and Insane, into one Board - the number not to exceed 13
                                            - to be selected from the Couty of Marion, and report,
                                            &c.
                                    
                                
                            
                             On motion by Mr. Thompson, of Madison, it was - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That Messrs. Firestone,
                                            Shull, Kelley, Wheeler and McClure, be added to the
                                            Special Committee on Mr. Powers' bill (199).
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                             By Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren - Rights and Privileges
                                - returning the woman's rights petition of D. P. Holloway and
                                others, (women of the county of Wayne) with the expression of
                                opinion, "that it would be inexpedient to legislate on this
                                subject."
                            By Mr. GRIFFIN - same committee - returning Mr. Boyd's bill (136) for
                                the protection of side-walks, &c., with an amendment
                                recommending passage: [Engrossed.]
                            By Mr. MELLETT - County Business - returning Mr.
                                Hancock's bill (92) to amend 18th section of the act of May 6, 1852,
                                recommending that it be laid on the table.
                            Also, Mr. Major's bill (230) to amend section 143 of the assessment
                                act of June 21, 1852, with the same recommendation.
                            By Mr. WHETZEL - same committee - returning Mr. Harney's bill (227)
                                to amend the act of May 20, 1852, in regard to lanes, alleys,
                                streets and squares, recommending passage: [Engrossed.]
                            Also, that the bill [98] be referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            By Mr. MARTIN - County and Township Business -
                                returning Mr. Dobbins' bill (116) for the more uniform mode of doing
                                township business, and to repeal the act of May 6, 1852,
                                recommending that it be laid on the table, "inasmuch . as the
                                committee have heretofore reported a bill which is still pending in
                                the House of Representatives, embracing most that is contained in
                                this bill."
                            Also, Mr. Hunter's bill (115) - same subject - recommending
                                indefinite postponement.
                            By Mr. RYNERSON - Agriculture - returning the
                                petition of sundry citizens for the establishment of an Agricultural
                                College, reasoning on the importance of putting the agriculturists
                                on the vantage ground of science, but "in view of the crippled state
                                of the finances of the State," they can not go farther than to look
                                with favor on the proposition to authorize the Board of Trustees to
                                establish an agricultural department of the Indiana University.
                            Also, recommending the reference of Mr. Dobbins' bill for a
                                geological survey to the select committee on that subject.
                            Mr. RITTER - Public Expenditures - returning the
                                bill for a State census for the year 1859, recommending passage.
                                [Engrossed.]
                            By Mr. KEEFER - from the Select Committee on Mr. Parks' bill (108)
                                for protection of wild cranberries, recommending passage.
                                [Engrossed.]
                            
                            These reports were severally concurred in.
                            On motion of Mr. SULLIVAN, the vote in definitely postponing Mr.
                                Cotton's bill, (137) to extend the property rights of married women
                                was reconsidered and the bill referred to a select committee of
                                five.
                        
                        
                            TOWNSHIP BUSINESS.
                             Mr. SULLIVAN, from the select committee on the committee's
                                substitute for Mr. Johnston's bill (89) with sundry verbal
                                amendments, recommended.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON, from a minority of the select committee, to whom was
                                referred House bill No. 178, substitute, submitted the following
                                report.
                            1. We dissent from the majority of the committee, from the fact that
                                it creates an entire new system, and before the system could be
                                understood as well aa the present one, would, most likely, be
                                changed.
                            2. That making the county Treasurer the Treasurer for each and all
                                districts, would be inconvenient and expensive, and would not meet
                                with the wishes of the people asking the change.
                            3. That the levying taxes required to be assessed by law in the
                                townships, by one man, would at least be of doubtful policy, and the
                                ends of justice not as likely be subserved as the present mode.
                            4. That, in building school houses, purchasing sites, and locating
                                the same, and making the proper distribution of the school funds to
                                the several districts, and an entire change in the road law, so far
                                as laying out new roads and vacating the same, would meet with the
                                same objection as urged in the third objection to this substitute,
                                as recommended by the majority committee.
                            AND WHEREAS, The amendments recommended in the
                                original bill in the present law, dispensing with two officers, and
                                limiting the sessions quarterly, would in the opinion of the
                                minority committee, be less expensive, taking all things into
                                consideration, than the substitute recommended by the majority
                                committee. We would therefore respectfully recommend the passage of
                                the original bill.
                            Mr. KEEFER said this was a bill involving a question of importance to
                                the entire State. His people were for the change to something like
                                the old county system, and on his motion the subject was made the
                                special order for ten o'clock tomorrow.
                            Mr. WATERMAN, from the select committee thereon, returned Mr- Stiles'
                                bill (228) relative to practice in the Supreme Court in the
                                construction of bills of exception, recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                        
                        
                            SUB TREASURY.
                             Mr. JONES, from the select committee thereon returned his
                                Sub-Treasury bill (9) re commending passage, with an additional
                                section, to this effect:
                            SEC. 19. No County Treasurer shall indorse the
                                words, "Not paid for the want of funds," unless the County
                                Commissioners shall have examined the treasury, and satisfied
                                themselves that there is no money there, &c., and such
                                examination shall be made immediately upon notice of the County
                                Treasurer.
                        
                        
                            SCHOOL MONEY.
                            On motion by Mr. MANSFIELD, the bill (107) to provide that that
                                portion of the interest on the Sinking Fund, which is not needed for
                                the interest on the bank bonds, shall be applied for school
                                purposes, was made the special order for this day at 2 o'clock.
                            Mr. PROSSER, from the select committee on his bill (37) to amend the
                                32d section of the Practice Act, so as to provide that no suit
                                against the maker of any written contract shall be brough twithout
                                the county where the maker resides, recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            On motion by Mr. DOBBINS, under a dispensation, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee on
                                                Ways and Means be instructed to report
                                            immediately the number and names of the several clerks
                                            employed by them, the time they have severally served,
                                            and the per diem paid to them.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. DOUGHERTY, under a dispensation, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That 2,000 copies of the
                                            Report of the Superintendent of Public Instruction be
                                            printed in the German language - two-thirds for the use
                                            of the House, and one third for the use of the
                                            Senate.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. CARR, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committee
                                                on Education inquire into the
                                            constitutionality and expediency of retaining the School
                                            Fund revenue in the counties where collected, and
                                            report, &c.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. BLYTHE, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts, returned his bill to establish the 15th
                                Circuit, with amendments, recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Also - from the select committee on Mr. Davis' bill (1) fora
                                Constitutional Convention. He reported the same back with
                                amendments, so as to require the sense of the people thereen at the
                                next October election; to make the number of delegates 100; the
                                election of delegates to take place the second Tuesday in April, and
                                the Convention to assemble the second Tuesday in May, 1860.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. Several of us on that committee dissent from the
                                report, and are against the bill.
                            The report was concurred in, the amendments adopted, and the bill
                                ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned the bill (198) to prohibit the
                                owners of bulls, &c., from running at largerecommending
                                indefinite postponementa better remedy being on the statutes.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN, from a minority of said committee, recommending
                                passage.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK. There were ten millions now invested in stock raising
                                in the State of Indiana. A partial improvement in breeding would
                                increase the value of this interest 25 per sent. We were an
                                agricultural State. This law would do more for this interest than
                                all the Agricultural Socities are now doing, it would add more than
                                a million a year to the productive values of the State.
                            Mr. PARKS spoke against the bill. The bill merely provides penalties.
                                There was already ample power in the hands of the County
                                Commissioners to restrain such stock from the common. Diverse rules
                                were demanded in different counties - one for a dense population,
                                and another for a sparse population, &c.
                            Mr. MURRAY supported the bill. If, as it was admitted, that such a
                                law was necessary in he older counties, it proved the necessity for
                                such legislation for the encouragement of stock growing, &c.

                        
                        
                            FINANCES OF THE STATE.
                             The SPEAKER announced the special order-the consideration of the
                                bills Nos. 9, 192, 193,  194,
                                195 - and called Mr. Edwards to the Chair.
                            Mr Jones' bill (9)- the sub-treasury bill was read, and the
                                committee's amendment, reported this morning by Mr. Jones, was
                                rejected.
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed to amend by striking out all that relates to the
                                office of Comptroller. He would vote for no bill to saddle the State
                                with another officer.
                            Mr. PROSSER. Was not a Comptroller essential to such a system ?
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. This bill was almost a literal transcript of the Ohio
                                law, and it worked so well that the Governor, in his late message,
                                had recommended its perfection by requiring all payments into the
                                treasury in gold and silver. In the State of Illinois, the duties of
                                Comptroller were performed by the Auditor, and the same might be
                                done here. He could not endorse the bill for this object, reported
                                from the Committee on Ways and Means, because it
                                permits these payments into the State and county treasuries to be
                                made in bank rags.
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON would rather make the fight on the proposition to
                                create that officer on the committee's bill, No. 94. Certainly the
                                public treasury could not be plundered worse than it had been
                                already. Yesterday it was reported here that one of the State
                                officers, (the late Secretary of State, Mr. McClure,) who was less
                                than two years in office, at a salary of $800, had received for
                                salary and perquisites, the large sum of $14,234 06. He said this,
                                not knowing whether this had been done in conformity with law, or in
                                violation of law. In order to get up the most perfect plan for the
                                management of the public finances, he should move to lay this bill
                                on the table for the present.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY demanded the yeas and nays, which resulted - yeas 53,
                                nays 32.
                            So the bill was laid on the table.
                            The committee's bill (195) An act to provide a Treasury System for
                                the State of Indiana, for the manner of receiving, holding and
                                disbursing the public moneys of the State, and the several counties,
                                and for the safe-keeping of the public moneys, was taken up.
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed to amend by striking out all that part which
                                relates to the office of Comptroller of State.
                            Mr. BRANHAM explained the provisions of the several bills which the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means had reported -
                                intended to embrace the system sought to be established by the bill
                                of Mr. Jones. The principal difference between the committee's
                                system and Mr. Jones' was that the committee did not require
                                treasury payments and disbursements to be made exclusively in a
                                metalic currency. The committee's bill (95) admits of the collection
                                and disbursement of revenue in notes of he Bank of the State and the
                                par banks. He showed the necessity for this. Still, if this feature
                                were stricken out, it would leave the system perfect. Each of the
                                committee's propositions stood independent of the others. It was not
                                assumed that these propositions of the committee were perfect in all
                                their details. Members of the committee were not unanimous in regard
                                to some things, as in the matter of fixing salaries. The principle
                                they had in view was, to pay sufficient salaries and stop all
                                perquisites; that all official perquisites shall go into the
                                Treasury. He considered that salaries twenty five per cent, higher
                                than at present would save money to the State.
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON, still anxious to get at the contest on the
                                Comptroller's bill, moved that this bill lie on the table for the
                                present, and that the committee's bill (194) to provide ior the
                                election of a Comptroller of State be taken up.
                            The motion was agreed to by consent.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved the indefinite postponement of the bill.
                            Mr. BRANHAM. This was not the creation of a new officer. The
                                Comptroller's duties were now performed by the Clerk of the Bank
                                Department in the Auditor's office, at a salary of $1,500, he
                                believed. The only question was whether this officer should be
                                elected by the Legislature, or appointed by the Auditor of State?
                                The duties of this officer in Mr. Jones' bill were the same as here.
                                There were a number of Treasury items depending entirely upon the
                                faithfulness of this officer, and it was thought better to make his
                                office elective, and so enable him to stand as a check upon others,
                                &c. He gave examples.
                            Mr. SMITH, of Perry. The office of Comptroller had generally been
                                found necessary in all the reorganizations of State Treasuries. This
                                office was found now in fifteen States of the Union. There should be
                                the same guards and care taken in paying money into the Treasury as
                                paying it out. There was a necessity (as this bill provides) for
                                monthly, quarterly and annual examinations of the books, &c. He
                                gave examples. At present, the State Treasurer kept no book worth
                                the name scarcely; and he gave examples of this. The object of the
                                Comptroller was to have a third check. Two might, collude. There
                                would be more security in three. Inaugurate this system, and the
                                system of publication, and he predicted the result of an annual
                                saving of fifty to a hundred thousand dollars a year to the
                                State.
                            Mr. MURRAY was glad to learn that this Comptroller was not necessary
                                to the system; for there were provisions in the system which
                                commanded his respect and assent. He alleged that this office would
                                involve an excess of expenditure of $1,500 a year, and the
                                collections and disbursements would be no more safe, &c.
                            Mr. SMITH, of Perry. It was apparent that in the State offices there
                                was not a sufficient amount of labor to enable the people to
                                understand and investigate fully the actual condition of the public
                                accounts. He referred to the financial experience of the State of
                                Ohio - her losses through this species of negligence, and her late
                                successful resort to a larger clerical force in her State
                                officers.
                            Mr. TURPIE was not prepared to vote for an increase of State offices.
                                There were but two parties to an account - debtor and creditor,
                                corresponding here to Treasurer and Auditor A third party would
                                complicate, &c.
                            Mr. PARKS reviewed the duties of this office as proposed in the
                                change of the bank department, &c., all of which now pertained
                                to the Auditor's office. The proposed increase of salaries, in
                                Comptroller, and deputies, was $2,900.
                            
                            He saw not the alleged advantages to result from checks in this
                                three-cornered business, &c.
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON replied to the objections urged by Mr. Turpie,
                                showing that the duties of this officer embraced the care of
                                business, for which there is now no provision by law. He shall
                                examine, certify and keep an accurate account of all payments,
                                drafts, &c., in favor of the Treasury - recording number,
                                amount, date,name, &c.
                            Mr. AUSTIN was opposed to the principle of a Sub-Treasury System
                                generally, and carried his objections into the details of these
                                several bills
                            Mr. HARNEY objected to forestalling the action of the House, as
                                attempted by Mr. Austin. He saw not the point made by Mr. Turpi esaw
                                no incongruity in having an officer to see that money is properly
                                paid into the Treasury, &c. He could not say, however, that this
                                could not be done in the Auditor's office.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, replied to Mr. Austin. It seemed to him that
                                this proposed discretion of the Treasurer to receive the issues of
                                the Bank of the State, &c., was prudently suggested, and
                                calculated to give credit to the currency of our State banks.
                            The House refused to postpone the bill by the following vote:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. - Messrs. Austin, Black, Blythe,
                                            Bowman, Carr, Clark, Claypool, Clayton, Collier, Davis,
                                            Dougherty, Durham, Edwards, Hartley, Hunter, Jones,
                                            Kelly, Knowlton, Lawhead, Lewis, McLain, Massey, Murray,
                                            Martin, Nelson, Parks, Row, Stanley, Stanfield, Summers,
                                            Thompson of Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Turpie, Usrey,
                                            Waterman, Wheeler and Wood,38. 
                                        NAYS. - Messrs. Baird, Boyd, Boxley,
                                            Branham,Brotherton, Cavins, Clements, Comstock, Cotton,
                                            Davidson, Dobbins, Devol, Early, Eastham, Fordyce,
                                            Gifford, Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush,
                                            Hamilton of Boone, Harney, Harrison, Jeffries, Johnston,
                                            Jordan, Kempf, Major, Mansfield, Mellett, Merrifield,
                                            Miller, Nebeker of Vermiliion, Nebeker of Warren,
                                            Newton, Power, Prosser, Ritter, Robinson, Scott.
                                            Sherman, Shields, Shockley, Smith of Miami, Smith of
                                            Perry, Snyder, Stiles, Sullivan, Tebbs, Treadway,
                                            Whetzel, Whiteman, Wildman and Mr. Speaker. - 54.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Messrs. Claypool, Knowlton, Prosser and Dobbins had leave of absence
                                till Tuesday.
                            Mr. TURPIE, by leave, introduced a bill (243) to amend the act
                                defining felonies, and prescribing punishment therefor; which was
                                passed the first reading. 

                            
                                SUPPORT OF COMMON SCHOOLS.
                                 The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz: The consideration
                                    of Mr. Waterman's bill (107) to appropriate the balance of
                                    interest on Sinking Fund to the support of Common Schools.
                                Mr. MANSFIELD took the floor and argued the constitutionality and
                                    good policy of the bill. A complete report of his remarks is
                                    deferred for want of space to-day.
                                Mr. COLGROVE said his bill was similar to this, with the
                                    exception that the entire fund should be distributed in the year
                                    1866. It was not necessary to pass both, and to save time he
                                    would move to postpone the consideration of this bill till next
                                    Tuesday, 10 o'clock - the same hour when his bill was appointed
                                    to be considered.
                                Mr. HARNEY objected to connecting the two bills. He would place
                                    this on its individual merits.
                                Mr. COLGROVE. The same discussion would be applicable to both
                                    bills.
                                The bill was postponed accordingly.
                                The SPEAKER laid before the House a report from William M. Hitt,
                                    President of the Board of the Trustees of the Vincennes
                                    University, which was ordered to be spread upon the Journal.
                                On motion by Mr. SHOCKLEY, the bill (S. 181) with reference to
                                    the next term of the Hancock Circuit Court - It shall be held on
                                    the 4th Monday in May, 1859, &c., was taken up and ordered
                                    to be engrossed; and, under asuspension, it was passed the final
                                    reading - yeas 87, nays 0.
                                Mr. Harrison's bill [59] extending four years time to borrowers
                                    of the trust funds, in sums of $500 an 1 under coming up for
                                    consideration on the third reading - it was finally passed the
                                    House of Representatives - yeas 75, nays 7.
                                Mr. Colgrove's bill [93] to amend the 6th and 7th sections of the
                                    Divorce act of May 13, 1852, was passed the final reading in the
                                    House of Representatives - yeas 75, nays 2.
                                On motion by Mr. MASSEY [under a dispensation] his bill [77]
                                    revising the Supervisors' act, was taken from the table.
                                Mr. PROSSER moved that the bill be considered as engrossed.
                                Mr. COMSTOCK said this bill had been favorably reported on from
                                    the Committee on Roads, by mistake, and if the bill pass it
                                    should not be in consequence of that report. It left out
                                    material portions of the law.
                                Mr. MASSEY rehearsed the provisions of the bill.
                                Mr. COMSTOCK. The present law requiring a man called to work on
                                    the roads, having horses, wagons &c., to furnish the same in
                                    work on the road. The bill seems to leave this to the discretion
                                    of the individual.
                                On motion by Mr. RITTER, the bill was again referred to the
                                        Committee on Roads.

                            
                            
                                TOWN SIDE-WALKS.
                                Mr. Jones' bill [105] to compel owners of town lots to grade and
                                    pave their side-walks, failed on the final reading - yeas 37,
                                    nays 35.
                                Mr. PARRETT moved a reconsideration of this vote. He explained
                                    the object of the bill. He knew, by experience, the necessity of
                                    some power in the hands of town trustees to compel non-resident
                                    owners of lots to grade and pave their side-walks, and still
                                    hoped the bill would pass.
                                Mr. DAVIS. Some gentlemen around me are apprehensive that there
                                    is something in the bill that interferes with the $300
                                    exemption.
                                Mr. JONES. There is no such thing in the bill.
                            
                            
                                 FIFTEENTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
                                 Mr. PARRETT called for the reading of the bill.
                                The SPEAKER. No reconsideration is necessary - the House having
                                    consented to take up the bill, which has failed for want of a
                                    constitutional majority.
                                Mr. RITTER moved to recommit, with instructions to strike out
                                    that clause having reference to valuation and appraisement
                                    laws.
                                
                                Mr. AUSTIN was satisfied that the bill would "work hardness on
                                    the poorer inhabitants of towns and for this reason he was
                                    oppossd to it. The people themselves ought to have some say in
                                    this matter.
                                Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, looked upon it as a most tyrannical
                                    proposition.
                                Mr. CLEMENTS hoped the bill would pass. He wanted to reach old
                                    hunkers who refuse to improve their lots farther than to make
                                    and keep up worthless huts for rent, &c. Some of the
                                    principal streets in many towns had to be improved by the
                                    residents, or left without improvements. Non-resident owners
                                    commonly refused to bear these burdens, whilst they enjoyed all
                                    the advantage of the rise in the value of property, &c.
                                The vote was then again taken on the final passage of the bill,
                                    resulting yeas 47, nays 37 - so the bill failed again of
                                    receiving 51 votes.
                                Mr. Blythe's bill (210) to create the 15th Judicial Circuit, was
                                    considered and passed the first reading in the House of
                                    Representatives - yeas 74, nays 10.
                                Mr. PARRETT moved a reconsideration of this vote, and spoke
                                    against the bill, from the consideration of the expensiveness of
                                    the judicial system of the State. The salaries of the Judges
                                    ought to be increased. The Judge of his Circuit had declared
                                    that, with a just salary, he could perform its duties. He
                                    objected also to the shape of the Circuit. A redistricting of
                                    the entire State would result better, and a reorganization of
                                    the Common Pleas Court should be had before this.
                                Mr. BLYTHE replied. It was not always economy to avoid the
                                    expenditure of money, and so consideration of economy should not
                                    weigh against justice. This was a very large Circuit. There were
                                    cases now on the Vanderburg docket of claims with only a nominal
                                    defense, that had been of two years' standing, without having
                                    been called. Extra terms had not reached them. Something of the
                                    same state of things existed in the counties of Knox, Gibson and
                                    Spencer. There was involved in this bill matter of the highest
                                    importance to the people of these counties.
                                The House refused to reconsider.
                                A Senate message, by Mr. Vawter, their Secretary, announced the
                                    passage in that body of the bill (S. 193) to regulate the sale
                                    of intoxicating liquors, and prescribing penalties, &c. -
                                    which - 
                                On the motion of Mr. MURRAY, it was considered and passed the
                                    first reading.
                                Mr. Stanfield's bill (169) for the relief of the heirs of John
                                    Coran, coming up - 
                                Mr. STILES stated the facts on which the bill is founded.
                                It was passed the final reading in the House of Repressntatives -
                                    yeas 82, nays 1.
                            
                            
                                REMAINS OF THE LIQUOR LAW.
                                 Mr. Davis' bill, (142) to authorize the Boards of County
                                    Commissioners to make allowance out of the county treasury to
                                    the owners of property destroyed under the administration of the
                                    liquor law of 1855, coming up - 
                                Mr. DAVIS stated its provisions and urgency.
                                Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, opposed the bill It contained no
                                    provision to reimburse officers against whom recoveries have
                                    been obtained. These officers' claims were barred by the statute
                                    of limitations. If it were right to restrict this traffic, how
                                    could it be right to reimburse those engaged in such a traffic
                                    for losses sustained in it? If made at all, these reimbursements
                                    should be paid out of the State treasury - not the county
                                    treasury. 
                                Mr. PROSSER replied to Mr. Hamilton.
                                Mr. GIFFORD supported the bill.
                                Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, moved to re-commit, with instructions to
                                    strike out the first section of the bill.
                                Mr. DAVIS replied, still further defending the bill, giving
                                    examples of its justice.
                                Mr. STANFIELD considered the provisions broad enough to embrace
                                    all cases likely to arise under the bill.
                                On motion by Mr. DAVIS, the motion to amend was laid on the
                                    table.
                                The bill then failed on the first reading - yeas 42, nays 37 -
                                    for want of a constitutional majority.
                                The House then, at 5:15 o'clock, adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             FRIDAY, February 11, 1859. 
                        
                        On motion of Mr. TURNER, Senators Carnahan, Jones and Jennings were added
                            to the select committee on his slave-trade joint resolution (12) offered
                            yesterday afternoon.
                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore, (Mr. Rice in the Chair,)
                            laid before the Senate the report of the State Board of Agriculture for
                            1858.
                        On motion by Mr. Williams, 6,000 copies were ordered to be printed.
                        Mr. HEFFREN, from the select committee of free conference, returned the
                            shinplaster bill (H. R. 12) with amendments, recommending its
                            passage.
                        Mr. GOODING said if the bill did not acknowledge the existence of the
                            Bank of the State of Indiana as a legal institution, he would vote for
                            it, but if it did he would not.
                        Mr. HAMILTON trusted the report would be concurred in, and that the bill
                            would pass.
                        Mr. ANTHONY felt disposed to vote for it, but hoped it would lay on the
                            table for the present.
                        Mr. STEELE hoped the report would be concurred in, and the amendment
                            proposed by the committee adopted. The object of the bill is to prevent
                            the issue of unauthorized paper currency, otherwise he should not vote
                            for it.
                        Mr. TARKINGTON thought the bill takes away from every institution in the
                            State the right to issue shinplasters, and can not see why there should
                            be any cavil in the matter.
                        Mr. MARCH desired to prevent the issue of any unauthorized paper currency
                            whatever; and that every bank circulation in the State should he made
                            safe and sound. He would rather this bill should lay over one or two
                            days to give us a chance to examine it.
                        Mr. GOODING desired to offer an amendment by striking out all after the
                            words "authorized by law," in the first amendment proposed by the
                            committee. 
                        
                        Mr. TARKINGTON insisted that an amendment to a free conference committee
                            report was out of order. 
                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore so ruled it.
                        The report of the free conference committee was then concurred in - yeas
                            27, nays 13, as follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    YEAS> - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                        Bennett, Blair, Brown, Carnahan, Cobb, Conner, Cooper,
                                        Craven, Hamiliton, Hargrove, Heffren, Hill, Johnston, Jones,
                                        Kinley, McLean, O'Brien, Odell, Rice, Steel, Stevens,
                                        Tarkington, Thompson, Turner and Williams - 27.
                                    NAYS - Messrs. Conley, Fisk, Gooding,
                                        Green, Hendry, Loxmax, McClure4, March, Robinson, Shoemaker,
                                        Slack, Studabaker and Wilson-13. 
                                
                            
                        
                         Mr. SLACK, by leave, offered the following,which was unanimously
                            adopted:
                        
                            
                                
                                    Resolved, that the Auditor of State is
                                        requested to draw a warrant in behalf of the Door-keeper of
                                        the Senate,for the sum of $165, on the State Treasury, for
                                        the purpose of purchasing postage stamps, ordered by the
                                        Senatefor the use of the members and officers.
                                
                            
                        
                         Mr. CONNER, by leave, offered the following, which was adopted:
                        
                            
                                
                                    Resolved,That the Committee on
                                            Finance be instructed inquire what
                                        legislation, if any, is required to compel the payment of
                                        the Common School Funds, now due from the State Treasury to
                                        the severel counties of the State ;that said committee
                                        inquire into the expediency of passing a law requiring the
                                        Treasurer of State to keep the Common School Funds coming
                                        into his hands separate from other funds, and prohibiting
                                        him from using said funs for any other purpose than that
                                        contemplated bythe law creating said fund, and that they be
                                        required to report by bill or otherwise.
                                
                            
                        
                         Mr. CONNER, by leave, presented a petition on the the Subject of
                            Temperance, from sundry citizens of Stockdale, Wabash county, which he
                            had leave to withdraw for the purpose of sending to the House of
                            Representatives.
                        The Committee on County and Township Business' bill
                            (145) to provide for a more uniform mode of doing township business,
                            coming up - 
                        Mr. LINE, tor the purpose of a test vote,moved to strike out the word
                            "one" and insert"three" [trustees] - one to act as clerk and one as
                            treasurer.
                        Mr. SLACK did not believe in a one-man power, and hoped the amendment
                            would be adopted.
                        Mr.GOODING was glad to hear the Senator express himself, because
                            opposition to one-man power was a Democratic principle. He was favor of
                            remodeling the township system, so that but three township officers
                            should be allowed at most.
                        Mr. ODELL was in favor of abolishing the whole township system as far as
                            the control of trustees over road business is concerned.
                        Mr. HEFFREN was in favor of the one trustee system.
                        Mr. COBB was opposed to the amendment, and believed one trustee can do
                            the business as well as three - at a cost of only $7,000 or $8,000 while
                            the present system costs about $27,000.
                        Mr. CONNER thought a great evil in this country was too much legislation.
                            The people of the State had become familiar with the present system and
                            he was opposed to changing it. He was also opposed to one-man power in
                            any shape or form, and in favor of the amendment of Senator from
                            Franklin [Mr. Line ]
                        Mr. McLEAN disapproved of the amendment. Township business could be as
                            well performed by one man as by three. If there was any crying evil in
                            this State it was this swarm of petty office-holders.
                        Mr. STUDABAKER thought his constituents were satisfied with the present
                            law, but stood ready to vote for any better one that might be proposed.
                            He should vote against the one-man power.
                        Mr. STEVENS could not consent to place the township business into the
                            hands of one man - it was an outrage the people would not sustain. He
                            hoped the amendment would be adopted.
                        Mr. MURRAY could not appreciate the argument against the one trustee
                            system. The people demanded the change proposed by the bill, and it
                            should receive his support, after one or two amendments which he should
                            propose at the proper time.
                        Mr. JOHNSTON thought one trustee was enough. He believed his constituents
                            would be satisfied with one, and he should vote for but one.
                        Mr. WILLIAMS said the bill proposed to lop off 3,600 township officers,
                            and he was in favor of it.
                        Mr. CARNAHAN was in favor of the one trustee system, and was satisfied it
                            was the choice of 999 out of every 1,000 of his constituents.
                        Mr. GREEN expressed himself in favor of abolishing the present system and
                            substituting therefor but one trustee.
                        Mr. HENDRY was in favor of the five officers, but was willing to
                            compromise and allow the three Trustees to do all the business of the
                            township.
                        Mr. FISK was opposed to the whole bill. The present system was cheaper
                            than even the one-man system would be, in his opinion.
                        [A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of
                            Mr.Gooding's bill (181) fixing the time of holding Circuit Courts in
                            Hancock county.]
                        Mr. WALLACE was opposed to the present system of doing township business,
                            and thought it our duty to correct it by the passage of this bill.
                        Mr. JOHNSTON moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                        The motion was agreed to - yeas 25, nays 17, as follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson, Bennett,
                                        Brown, Carnahan, Coob, Conley, Cravens, Green, Hargrove,
                                        Heffren, Johnston, Jones, Lomax, McClure, McLean, Miller,
                                        Murray, Odell, Robinson, Shoemaker, Turner, Wallace,
                                        Williams and Wilson - 25.
                                    NAYS - Messrs. Blair, Cenner, Craven,
                                        Fisk, Hamilton, Hendry, Hill, Kinley, tine, March, O'Brien,
                                        Rice, Slack, Steele, Stevens, Studabaker and Thompson -
                                        17.
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             By unanimous consent the following bills were introduced and
                                severally passed the first reading:
                            By Mr. CONLEY: (201) to require surviving partners to give a bond of
                                inventory and make report of their proceedings to a court having
                                jurisdiction.
                            By Mr. GREEN: (202) supplemental to article 9 of chapter 1 of Revised
                                Statutes of 1852of a law reform act approved June 18, 1852.
                            
                            By the Committee on Benevolent Institutions (203)
                                to provide for the election of trustees and commissioners of the
                                benevolent institutions of the State.
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, his resolution to amend the rules, submitted
                                on yesterday, was taken up - 
                            Mr. MARCH objected to the first rule proposed.
                            Mr. BENNETT was opposed to the adoption of any rule which would cut
                                off the explanation of a vote.
                            Mr. LOMAX moved to amend by limiting the explanation of a vote to ten
                                minutes.
                            Mr. STEVENS moved to amend as follows:
                            By allowing any member to furnish to the Reporter the reasons for his
                                vote, in writing, to be published in the "Legislative Reports."
                            Mr. HEFFREN would prefer "fifteen" instead of "ten" minute speeches,
                                as proposed by the new rule.
                            Mr. SLACK was opposed to any amendment of the rules: and moved to lay
                                the resolution and pending amendments on the table.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 16, nays 22.
                            The amendment to the amendment was laid on the table
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to strike out "ten minutes in the amendment and
                                insert "five." This motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. HAMILTON thought Senators ought to have an opportunity when their
                                names are called to explain their votes.
                            Mr. MARCH moved to amend the amendment by stricking out so much in
                                the first rule as prevents Senators from giving an explanation on
                                the calling of his name.
                            Mr. MURRAY, by consent, withdrew his proposition to amend the
                                rules.
                            The Senate then resumed the subject pending at the recess.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to recommit with instructions to provide for the
                                election of three trustees, one of whom shall be a
                                treasurer and one the clerk provide; that stated meetings of the
                                board shall be held not exceeding four times a year, and provide
                                that they shall have jurisdiction over the changing and location of
                                all roads not running through more than one township, and giving
                                them general supervision over the improvement of roads and bridges
                                in their respective townships, and requiring the supervisors to
                                expend the labor and money on the roads under their direction.
                            Mr. BENNETT moved a substitute, which provides for three trustees -
                                one to act as president, one as treasurer and one as clerk; that
                                they shall be allowed to meet quarterly and sit two days at a time
                                if they see fit.
                            Mr. STEVENS occupied the floor in answer to some remarks made this
                                morning by Senators who advocated the one trustee system. He was in
                                favor of the substitute proposed.
                            Mr. SHOEMAKER moved to lay the substitute on the table.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 20, nays 22, as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Beeson, Brown,
                                            Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Cravens, Hargrove, Heffren,
                                            Johnston, Lomax, McClure, McLean, Murray, Odell,
                                            Robinson, Shoemaker, Wallace, Weir, Williams and Wilson
                                            - 20.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Anthony, Bennett,
                                            Blair, Bobbs, Conner, Cooper, Craven, Fisk, Green,
                                            Hamilton, Hendry, Hill, Jones, Kinley, March, Miller,
                                            Rice, Slack Steele, and Stevens, Thompson and Turner -
                                            22.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. BLAIR did not think the bill proposed any material benefits,but
                                that by some modifications of the substitute it could be made of
                                general utility.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN was opposed to the substitute - the cutting off of but
                                two officers was a small matter.
                            Mr. MURRAY thought there was no practical economy in the substitute
                                proposed. He hoped the committee's bill would be perfected.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to recommit with instructions to amend so that the
                                trustees may receive $1,50 per day He would be in favor of the
                                substitute with a slight amendment.
                            Mr. GREEN was in favor of the substitute proposed.
                            Mr. HEFFREN was opposed to the motion recommit.
                            Mr. CONNER was opposed to any change of the law.
                            Mr. ROBINSON was in favor of the original bill and opposed to the
                                substitute.
                            Mr. SLACK withdrew both his propositions.
                            Mr. CONLEY hoped Senators will consider this matter well. The people
                                demand a change so that there may be but one officer in each
                                township.
                            Mr. MARCH was in favor of the proposition submitted by the Senator
                                from Union [Mr. Bennett.]
                            Mr. MILLER was willing to abolish the entire system of township
                                business.
                            Mr. CONLEY moved to postpone the further consideration till Thursday,
                                10 o'clock.
                            Mr. BENNETT objected to the postponement.
                            The motion was lost.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS was certain one trustee could do the business much
                                cheaper than three, but if not, then he would be in favor of
                                three.
                            The subsititute was then rejected, yeas 20, nays 21 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Bennett, Blair, Bobbs,
                                            Conner, Cooper, Craven, Fisk, Gooding, Green, Hamilton,
                                            Hendry, Hill, Jones, Kinley, March, Rice, Steele,
                                            Stevens, Thompon and Turner - 20.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Anthony. Beeson, Brown,
                                            Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Cravens, Hargrove, Heffren,
                                            Johnston, Lomax, McClure, McLean, Murray, Odell,
                                            Robinson, Shoemaker, Wallace, Weir, Williams and Wilson
                                            - 21.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. CONLEY made an ineffectual attempt to make the trustee elected
                                for two years.
                            Mr. BENNETT moved to lay the bill on the table.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 16, nays 26.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved to postpone the further consideration of the bill
                                till Tuesday morning, 10 o'clock.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. CONNER moved that the Senator from Huntington, [Mr. Slack] have
                                leave to record his vote on the substitute proposed by the Senator
                                from Union, [Mr. Bennett.]
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 26, nays 15- and Mr. Slack voted
                                "no."
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to reconsider the vote by which the Senate refused
                                to adopt the substitute of the Senator from Union [Mr. Bennett,]
                                pending which the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                    
                    

                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             FRIDAY, February 11, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS
                            By Mr. FIRESTONE, Mr. WILDMAN and Mr. WATERMAN: sundry petitions with
                                reference to claims on account of the arrest of criminals, which
                                were referred to the Committee on Claims. 
                            By the SPEAKER: of John Arr.
                            By Mr. CLARK: against the repeal of the Horse-thief Detecting
                                Association Law.
                            By Mr. USREY: for a law against sheep-killing dogs. Which were
                                severally read and referred.
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                             By Mr. STANFIELDJudiciaryreturning his bill 217, in relation to the
                                levy of execution of partnership property, &c., recommending
                                passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By same - recommending indefinite postponement of bill (172) by the
                                Committee on Public Expenditures, to restore and preserve records of
                                the Supreme Court, which was concurred in.
                            By same - returning his bill (150) to amend the Practice Act of June
                                18, 1852, requiring answers to be drawn before a judgment or default
                                against a non-resident shall be set aside; authorizing property
                                taken on execution to be held in certain cases; Judges, in vacation,
                                to appoint receivers; providing for the faithful discharge of their
                                duties; to modify or reinstate orders of injunction granted in
                                vacation; provisions in relation to the continuance of causes, and
                                the sale of property on the foreclosure of mortgage, with
                                amendments, as follows:
                            That section 80 be amended so as to read: "Where a writing,
                                purporting to have been executed by one of the parties is the
                                foundation of any pleading, it may be read in evidence on the trial
                                of the cause against such party without producing its execution,
                                unless its execution be denied by affidavit before the commencement
                                of the trial, or unless denied by a pleading under oath. The latter
                                party shall in all cases have inspection of the instrument of
                                writing before pleading. When the action is brought by a
                                corporation, it shall not be necessary for the corporation to
                                produce its corporate existence, unless the defendant shall deny the
                                same under oath.
                            The amendments were adopted, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. SCOTT - Judiciary - recommending the
                                indefinite postponement of Mr. Claypool's bill (155) for taxation of
                                docket fees in civil actions, which was concurred in.
                            Mr. BAIRD - Judiciary - returning Mr. Snyder's
                                bill (144) authorizing railroads to borrow money, fix the rate of
                                interest thereon, &c., recommending passage.
                             It was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. BROTHERTON - Organization of Courts -
                                recommending the passage of his bill (91) to provide for the
                                transfer of certain causes fromthe Common Pleas and Justices of the
                                Peace, which was concurred in.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD - Judiciary - for indefinite
                                postponement of Mr. Murray's bill (237) to amend the Common Pleas
                                act, which was concurred in.
                            By same - for the passage of Mr. Murray's bill (218) fixing the time
                                of holding the Common Pleas in the counties of Elkhart and
                                Lagrange.
                            It was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. LAWHEAD - Rights and Privileges - for
                                passage of Mr. Snyder's bill (229) to amend the 76th section of the
                                misdemeanor act, of une 14, 1852.
                            It was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. RYNERSON - Agriculture - reporting a bill
                                (244) to amend the 73d section of the assessment act, which was
                                passed the first reading.
                             By Mr. TREADWAY - Agriculture - returning a
                                petition for legislation to improve the breed of horses, which was
                                laid on the table.
                            By. Mr. MELLETT - Judiciary - returning his bill
                                (175) extending the jurisdiction of the Court of Common Pleas, and
                                recommending passage.
                            It was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. DAVIS - Judiciary - recommending that the
                                bill (S. 1) to amend the divorce law, be laid on the table - the
                                House having already passed a bill on the same subject.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            By Mr. SCOTT - Judiciary - recommending the
                                passage of Mr. Stile's bill (128) to regulate practice in the
                                Supreme Court in the construction of bills of exception.
                            It was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE - Judiciary - recommending that
                                Mr. Hunter's bill (189) supplemental to the Common Pleas act of May
                                14, 1852, be indefinitely postponed: which was concurred in.
                            By Mr. MELLETT - Judiciary - recommending
                                indefinite postponement of Mr. Edwards' bill (141) to authorize
                                limited partnerships, &c.: which was concurred in.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD, from the Committee on Free
                                    Conference,to which was referred House bill No. 12 to
                                prevent the issuing and circulation of unauthorized paper currency,
                                and prescribing penalties for the issuing or failure to redeem any
                                such currency and the amendments thereto, recommending that the
                                following amendments be made to said bill, to-wit:
                            Insert after the word "whatever" in the third line of the first
                                section the words "gave and except that now authorized by law to be
                                issued by the Bank of the State of Indiana and her branches, and
                                other banks incorporated under the general banking law of this
                                State." Also strike out of said section, beginning in line 12 after
                                the word State, the following, to-wit: "Other than a banking
                                institution authorized by law to issue such paper."
                            And amend section 2, line 4, by striking out the article "a" and
                                insert in lieu thereof the word "the."
                            And also add the following section to the bill:
                            Section 7. The Bank of the State of Indiana and its branches, and the
                                banks organized under the general banking law of this State, shall
                                not, nor shall any officer or agent of any of such banks put into
                                circulation any such fraudulent and void paper or isues, as that
                                described in the first section of this act, and any such officer or
                                agent upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to the same
                                penalties as are prescribed in the second section of this act.
                            And that the House recede from its amendment to this bill.
                            The report was concurred in by consent.
                            The SPEAKER submitted to the House the question, whether the
                                    Committee on Free Conference could amend the
                                bill in any provision not connected with the specific matter on
                                which the two Houses had disagreed, and suggested  that the action of the House just had
                                on such a report as this might make the bill a nullity.
                            Mr. MARTIN. The amendments made by the committee were a compromise
                                between members of the committee on the part of the House, and on
                                the part of the Senate, on the provisions of the bill known as the
                                House amendment.
                            Mr. STANFIELD. The report sets forth that we agree to the following
                                amendments, (which he read) and then adds, "that the House recede
                                from its amendment."
                            Mr. COLGROVE, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                recommended indefinite postponement of Mr. Stiles' bill (159) to
                                regulate the descent of the wife's property, which was concurred
                                in.
                            Mr. TURPIE, from same committee, recommended the passage of the bill
                                (S. 131) to amend the practice act of June 18, 1852,so as to
                                authorize a change of venue in certain cases, and it was passed to
                                the third reading.
                        
                        
                            SECURING PERSONAL PROPERTY TO MARRIED WOMEN.
                            Mr. BAIRD, from same committee, recommended indefinite postponement
                                of Mr. Boyd's bill (157) "securing to married women such personal
                                property as maybe exempt from execution; also to enable them to
                                control their own earnings and the earnings of their minor children
                                in certain cases"alleging that "said bill proposes to establish two
                                independent sovereignties in the family,"'&c.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. The report states that the object of the bill is to
                                establish two independent sovereign ties in each family. I would
                                like to know which of these is the "squatter sovereignty?"
                                [Laughter.]
                            Mr. BOYD had hoped the report would be favorable. The law exempting
                                $300 worth of property to the householder was to prevent pauperism.
                                This bill proposed, that in a certain contingency, where the husband
                                takes of this exempted property for drink, the wife may sue in her
                                own name and recover. If such husband were made to look mean in
                                this, he ought to look mean as he is. The bill also prevents the
                                pawning of such property protected by the law.
                            Mr. BAIRD saw now the object of the bill - it being a tax on John
                                Barleycorn - whisky at the bottom. He rehearsed the argument of the
                                report.
                            Mr. MURRAY would like to see the bill perfected - the object being to
                                carry out the principle of the exemption law. He desired a law to
                                protect the family against the bad management and dabauchery of the
                                husband.
                            Mr. BOYD proposed to recommit with instructions to "amend so as to
                                confine its provisions to cases where the property has been set off
                                under our exemption laws."
                            Mr. BAIRD, That was in the act of 1857.
                            Mr. COLGROVE. The other feature of the bill proposes to give the wife
                                the control of the $300 under exemption. It proceeds upon the
                                assumption that every poor man is a drunkard. When he had concluded
                                - 
                        
                        
                            TOWNSHIP BUSINESS.
                             The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz: the consideration of
                                Mr. Johnston's amended bill (87) to amend the act of May 6, 1852,
                                for amore uniform mode of doing township business the question being
                                on the adoption of the select committee's amendments.
                             The bill provides for one trustee, &c.
                            Mr. HARRISON opposed the adoption of amendments reported from the
                                    select committee. The first amendment
                                requiring the trustee to give a bond in double the amount passing
                                through his hands, &c., was simply absurd. The second amendment
                                was equally absurd. He was opposed to giving the control of the
                                moneys of the township to one trustee. He proposed to give the
                                township fund to the county treasurer, who has that custody already.
                                He opposed all the amendments.
                            Mr. GIFFORD opposed the one-man system. He was for the original bill
                                - three trustees.
                            Mr. HARNEY moved to lay on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. HAMILTON of Boone. The bill now before the House was the
                                substitute for Mr. Johnston's bill - the substitute providing for
                                one trustee, the original bill for three.
                            Mr. MURRAY had learned the importance of this subject from
                                experience. The principle of the bill was wrong - corrupt. It fell
                                short also on the score of economy. He preferred the bill of Mr.
                                Johnston, and spoke at length on the whole question.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, moved to reconsider the vote by which the
                                House concurred in the substitute reported from the
                                    Committee on County and Township Business,
                                now before the House.
                            Mr. DOBBINS took the floor in reply to Mr. Murray, and supported the
                                substitute.
                            Mr. HUNTER showed that the township system cost the State of Indiana
                                $247,000 a year, and was in favor of wiping it out as a mere curse,
                                &c. The township system should be for school purposes alone, and
                                that should be without pay. He sketched his system.
                            Mr. NEBEKER was nearly agreed with Mr. Hunter. He would return to the
                                old township system.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK opposed the substitute, as contravening the spirit of
                                Republicanism and true Democracy. It was not charged that the
                                township business was not done well, only that it was too expensive.
                                He contended for the rights of the people, cost what it may. But he
                                considered the one-man system would result more expensively than
                                that which admits of three, &c.
                            Mr. HARRISON. Gentlemen had not read the bill had not fairly
                                represented it. The substitute had reduced the power of the Trustee
                                to less than that attaching to any other public officer of that
                                grade. He moved to postpone till Wednesday, which was taken by
                                consent.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             On motion by Mr. DAVIS, his bill (142) reimburse the owners of
                                property destroyed under the liquor law of 1855, which failed
                                yesterday for want of a constitutional majority, was referred to a
                                select committee of five, with instructions, viz: Add to the first
                                section, "Provided, further, that no allowance shall be made when
                                the case had been barred by 
                                the statue of limitations, nor unless there is a clear liability on
                                the part of the officer."
                            Add, also, to section three, "That whenever any proceeding for a writ
                                of habeas corpus shall have been instituted by any
                                person imprisoned under the provisions of the said act, directed to
                                any officer detaining such person in custody, and such officer shall
                                have been adjudged to pay the costs of such proceeding, and shall
                                have paid the same, the said Board of Commissioners are hereby
                                authorized and empowered to allow such officer the sum or sums of
                                money he may have been compelled to pay as aforesaid." 
                            Change section 3 to section 4.
                            The SPEAKER makes that committee to consist of Messrs. Davis,
                                Edwards, Stanfield, Blythe and Fordyce.
                             Mr. PARRETT (by consent) introduced a bill (245) to authorize deeds
                                and mortgages heretofore acknowledged before County Auditors, to be
                                recorded, and authorizing the same, and also the record thereof to
                                be read in evidence, making such record notice to third persons, and
                                making such conveyances valid, which was passed in the first
                                reading.

                            
                                WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
                                The SPEAKER announced the special order for this hour, viz: The
                                    consideration of Mr.Murray's joint resolution against taking
                                    back the Wabash and Erie Canal, which was read, as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            That while we regard the maintenance of the Wabash
                                                and Erie Canal of great importance to that portion
                                                of the State through which it runs, and earnestly
                                                desire that the citizens along its line may take
                                                efficient measure to secure that result - we are
                                                opposed to any policy which calls for legislative
                                                action before the bondholders declare, in legal
                                                form, their abandonment of the canal, and the
                                                forfeiture of any claim upon the State for that
                                                portion of the State debt for the payment of which
                                                the bondholders were to rely upon the canal and its
                                                revenues; AND WHEREAS, various
                                                meetings along the line of the canal, were brought
                                                about by the circulars of Butler & Co.,for the
                                                purpose effecting legistlation on the subject; AND WHEREAS, the threat to abandon
                                                the canal is nothing more nor less than a very
                                                credible avowal of their intention 10 violate the
                                                contract of 1846-7, between the bondholders and the
                                                State of Indiana; therefore - 
                                            Resolved, That we view such threats
                                                in the light they justly deserve; and that we
                                                deprecate all legislation and agitation of the
                                                question, at the present time, as dangerous to the
                                                State.
                                            Resolved, That the State is now
                                                clear of that portion of the debt adjusted in
                                                1846-7, and that it is her right, purpose and duty,
                                                to keep clear of it.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. EDWARDS moved to refer the joint resolution to the Committe
                                    on Canals and Internal Improvements, with instructions, viz:
                                1. Report against any act by which the Wabash and Erie Canal will
                                    be owned by the State, or any part of the debt for which it was
                                    surrendered, be reassumed, or any appropriation on out of the
                                    State Treasury be made to maintain said canal.
                                2. To inquire whether the Wabash and Erie Canal, or any part
                                    thereof, will probably be abandoned by the present owners, and
                                    in that case, to report what legislation is necessary, if any,
                                    to protect those interests in the property along the line of the
                                    same, and to authorize persons interested to keep the said canal
                                    in navigable order without charge upon the State Treasury.
                                Mr. MURRAY took the floor and spoke at length on the whole
                                    subject, urging the adoption the joint resolution, &c. 
                                And thereupon arose a question of order interposed by Mr.
                                    ROBINSON - whether this whole subject had not been indefinitely
                                    postponed by the House, in the vote on the original memorial of
                                    citizens living on the line of the canal, in which Messrs.
                                    Davis, Blythe, Baird, Mellett, Stiles, Harney, and others,
                                    participated - taking a range embracing the merits of the
                                    resolutions and pending instructions.
                                Mr. BLYTHE submitted the following:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That it is the judgment
                                                of this House that the indefinite postponement of
                                                the Canal memorial and the subject thereof does not
                                                indefinitely postpone the resolution of the
                                                gentleman from Elkhart, which is the special order
                                                for this day at 2 o'clock.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. DAVIS gave notice of his desire to offer in this connection
                                    the following, but which was not entertained:
                                That this House will not entertain a proposition of any sort or
                                    kind, directly or indirectly, looking to the resumption of any
                                    portion of the debt of the State settled by the transfer of the
                                    Wabash and Etie Canal; neither will this House entertain any
                                    proposition for the appropriation of any money to put said canal
                                    in repair or any part thereof.
                                Mr. Blythe's resolution was rejected - yeas 33, nays 49 - as
                                    follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Baird, Blythe,
                                                Branham, Cavins, Clark, Clements, Colgrove, Collier,
                                                Comstock, Davidson, Davis, Edwards, Firestone,
                                                Harney, Hartley, Lawhead, McLain, Mansfield, Massey,
                                                Merrifield, Miller, Murray, Nebeker of Vermillion,
                                                Nebeker of Warren, Parrett, Row, Scott, Sherman,
                                                Smith of Miami, Stanfield, Thompson of Elkhart,
                                                Whetzel and Whiteman - 33.
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Black, Bowman,Boyd,
                                                Boxley,Brotherton, Carr, Clayton, Dobbins,
                                                Dougherty, Duval, Early, Eastham, Fordyce, Gifford,
                                                Gregory, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton of
                                                Boone, Harrison, Hunter, Jones, Jordan, Reefer,
                                                Kelly, Kempf, Lewis, Major, Mellett, Martin, Nelson,
                                                Newton, Robinson, Rynerson, Shields, Shockley,
                                                Snyder, Stanley, Stiles, Sullivan, Summers, Tebbs,
                                                Thompson of Madison, Treadway, Turpie, Usrey,
                                                Waterman, Wildman, Wood, and Mr. Speaker -49.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. FIRESTONE, explaining, said: Mr. Speaker, when I voted on the
                                    indefinite postponement of the memorial after it was read, I did
                                    not understand that by that vote I would thereby prevent action
                                    by the House on Mr. Murray's resolution. At the same lime I
                                    would not vote one dollar to take back the canal, believing that
                                    if the canal is not a self-sustaining institution the State does
                                    not want it.
                                The SPEAKER, under this action of the House, held that the
                                    special order (the consideration of Mr. Murray's joint
                                    resolutions) was indefinitely postponed the House having thus
                                    negatively declared, that, with the canal memo rial, the whole
                                    subject was postponed.
                                Mr. MILLER, from the Committee on Canals and Internal
                                        Improvements , returned the petition of citizens
                                    of Vermillion county, and that portion of the Governor's Message
                                    relative to the Wabash and Erie Canal, with the expression of
                                    opinion that legislation thereon was inexpedient. 
                                The House concurred.
                                Mr. COLGROVE, by consent and according to previous notice,
                                    introduced a bill (246) against the State's reassumption of any
                                    proprietorship in the Wabash and Erie Canal, and relinquishing
                                    forever the State's reversionary interest therein.
                                Mr. DEVOL moved that the bill be rejected.
                                Mr. COLGROVE thereupon pursued the debate, justifying his
                                    proposition - until
                                Mr. MURRAY raised the question that this bill was out of
                                    order.
                                Mr. DEVOL withdrew his motion.
                                Mr. Speaker GORDON, (Mr. Stanfield in the Chair) to get clear of
                                    the difficulty, moved to reconsider the vote rejecting Mr.
                                    Blythe's resolution above.
                                The motion was agreed to, and the question recurred on its
                                    adoption.
                                
                                Mr. DOBBINS, Mr. MELLETT and Mr. BAIRD gave their views of the
                                    whole subject and the parliamentary question involved.
                                Mr. CLEMENTS declared that the House were voting blindly in this
                                    matter, and forgetful of the tact that these bond holders had
                                    swindled the State, in that they had constructed - not a canal,
                                    but a miserable ditch, which had never yet been navigable for
                                    two months at a time; and forgetful also of the fact that these
                                    bond holders have now in the Vincennes Land District 132,000
                                    acres of the canal lands yet unsold, and the sale of which ought
                                    to be enjoined, &c.
                                Mr. Speaker GORDON (Mr. Blythe in the Chair) spoke to the order.
                                    He was willing to stand on his vote postponing this canal
                                    petition for an appropriation of money. He believed the bond
                                    holders would fairly forfeit their contract and the canal, if
                                    they abandoned it. He was willing to relinquish the State's
                                    reversionary interest, At the proper time he would vote a
                                    declaration of the forfeiture of the canal, and then authorize a
                                    company to organize and carry it on. But the House should not
                                    conclude itself in this way against future action, &c.
                                Mr. MELLETT spoke again - showing that the House could not decide
                                    negatively on the resolution of the gentleman from Elkhart.
                                    without destroying its action on the petition and the resolution
                                    of the gentleman from Vanderburgh and insisted on the
                                    preservation of the integrity of parliamentary rule.
                                Mr. MILLER would vote constantly to keep this question open, from
                                    a sense of justice to the owners of the millions of property
                                    along the line of that Canal. He was opposed to the bill for
                                    this reason, &c. The Canal passes through some twenty
                                    counties, and more than twice twenty counties went to it for
                                    their market. But if the bondholders should resign the work, (as
                                    he was informed by the resident Trustee they would assuredly do
                                    in March,) then there should be a law passed allowing the
                                    property-holders interested to take it up and keep it in repair.
                                    He said this acknowledging his pledges against taking back the
                                    Canal, and avowing his determination to stand by those
                                    pledges.
                                Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren. The law was clear that the bondholders
                                    were bound to appropriate all the proceeds of the work to keep
                                    it up. If these bondholders and their trustees were going to act
                                    "dog in the manger," he would maintain the policy of "masterly
                                    inactivity." He would clip down the salaries of the Trustees,
                                    and go save money to keep up the work. He might be willing to
                                    relinquish the State interest in the Canal, but not the State's
                                    right to compel the Trustees to do their duty sell the land and
                                    apply the proceeds of the work itself to keeping it up, and
                                    State's right to reduce these official salaries, &c.
                                Mr. COLGROVE gave a final explanation - and concluded by
                                    declaring that Mr. Blythe's resolution could not preclude his
                                    bill.
                                Mr. KEEFER thought there was enough said and done on this
                                    subject. The bondholders, &c., must be satisfied that the
                                    State would never give a dollar more toward that work.
                                Mr. TURPIE would not legislate on this sub-ject, but in the event
                                    of the receipt here of an official note from the Trustees, that
                                    they had wholly abandoned that work.
                                He moved to lay Mr. Blythe's resolution on the table, demanding
                                    the yeas and nays.
                                The vote resulted - yeas 56, nays 19 so the resolution was laid
                                    on the table.
                                The SPEAKER now explained the order, and held, that the question
                                    is now upon Mr. Colgrove's bill, and it passed to the second
                                    reading without objection. 
                                Mr. MELLETT submitted the following which was ruled out of order: 
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved,That it is the judgment
                                                of this House that the resolution of the gentlemen
                                                from Elkhart, is out of orderbeing equivalent to the
                                                order of the House indefinitely postponing the
                                                consideration of the memorial of sundry citizens on
                                                the same subject.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                ENLARGEMENT OF THE STATE PRISON.
                                Mr. HUNTER, under a dispensation, and under instructions from a
                                    majority of the Committee on the Affairs of the State
                                        Prison, reported on that part of the Governor's
                                    message recommending enlargement of the Prison, or the erection
                                    of another in the northern portion of the State, giving a
                                    detailed statement of the cost of the building, construction,
                                    repairs and management of the Prison. The committee believe that
                                    the Prison may be made self-sustaining. They submit an elaborate
                                    argument against a new Prison in the northern part of the State,
                                    and come to the conclusion that it is wisest and best to enlarge
                                    the old one; and they submit a plan and estimate for the same,
                                    with a bill (247) to provide for the enlargement of the State
                                    Prison; to prescribe the duties of officers in relation thereto,
                                    and punishment for the violation thereof; and making an
                                    appropriation [$50,000] for the enlargement of said Prison,
                                    which was passed thefirst reading.
                                Mr. TURPIE. Is there a minority report?
                                Mr. MURRAY answering, admitted the necessity of building a wing
                                    to the Prison, for the purpose of increasing the number of
                                    cells. He was surprised that the report should propose, instead
                                    of this, a new Prisonto cost, perhaps, a hundred thousand
                                    dollars, instead of their estimate of fifty. As a member of that
                                    committee, without submitting a minority report, he should
                                    content himself with voting against the whole thing.
                                The SPEAKER announced the following select committee on
                                    re-districting the State for the Common Pleas, viz: Messrs.
                                    Martin, Shields, Davis, Clements, Treadway, Ritter, Brotherton,
                                    Hamilton, of Boone, Merrifield, Waterman, Firestone, Stiles and
                                    Colgrove.
                                The House then, at 5:10 o'clock, adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             SATURDAY, February 12, 1859. 
                        
                        On motion by Mr. WILLAMS, the reading of the journal was dispensed
                            with.
                        Mr. CONNER, from the Committee on Corporations, returned Senator
                            Johnston's bill (103) recommending indefinite postponement.
                        The report was concurred in.
                        Mr. JOHNSTON, from a select committe, returned his bill (75) to amend
                            sections 9 and 20 of an act regulating the fees of officers,  approved March 2, 1855, recommending its
                            passage.
                        The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                        Mr. STEELE, by consent, presented a petition from certain citizens of
                            Parke and Vermillion counties, on the subject of the Wabash and Erie
                            Canal, which was referred to the Committee on Canals and
                                Internal Improvements, without reading. 
                        

                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced and severally read the first
                                time.
                            Mr. ANTHONY: (204) to amend an act providing for the election and
                                prescribing the duties of Recorders, approved May 31,1852.
                            Mr. LOMAX: (205) fixing the time of holding Common Pleas Courts in
                                Washington, Harrison, Orange and Crawford counties. 
                            By Mr. COBB: (206) to amend section 26of an act concerning real
                                property and alienation thereof, approved May 6, 1852.
                            By Mr. McLEAN: (207) to regulate the salaries of Judges of the
                                Supreme and Circuit Courts and Prosecuting Attorneys in the several
                                judicial circuits and prescribing the manner of reimbursing the
                                State against the expenses of the judiciary.
                            This bill fixes the salary of Supreme Judges at $1,800 per annum;
                                Circuit Judges at $1,500; Circuit Prosecutors $500 and docket fees.
                                The bill also provides for reimbursing the State against the
                                expenses of the Judiciary by exacting a docket fee in advance, of
                                one dollar, from any person commencing a civil action of any
                                description in the Circuit Courts, and a similar fee of two dollars,
                                to be paid in advance, by any person taking an appeal to the Supreme
                                Court from any judgment or decree of the Circuit or Common Pleas
                                Courts.
                            Mr. STEELE, by leave, from the Agricultural
                                    Committee, returned his bill (126) recommending that
                                it be referred to the joint committee on that subject.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill so referred.
                            On motion by Mr. CARNAHAN, the bill (H. R. 210) erecting the 15th
                                Judicial Circuit, was taken up and passed the first reading.
                            [A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of
                                Senator Bobb's bill (49) fixing the time of holding courts in the
                                5th Judicial Circuit.]
                            By Mr. MARCH: (208) to amend section 1 of an act to authorize the
                                formation of new counties,and change county boundaries, approved
                                March 7, 1857, so a to allow new counties to be formed out of
                                territories less than 400 square miles.
                            By Mr. BROWN: (209) to amend section 1 of an act to exempt property
                                from sale in certain cases, approved February 17, 1852.
                            [On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the following House bills were taken up
                                and severally passed the first reading:
                            [The bills H. R. 101, 103, 131, 133,170, 69, 27, 48, 60, 86,104, 28,
                                16, 57, 79, 82, 85, 59, 93, 5,169, 3, 20.
                            [Mr BOBBS, by leave, presented two petitions from sundry citizens and
                                owners of property adjoining square No. 25, in Indianapolis,
                                protesting against allowing any Sectarian University to be built
                                thereon, which was referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.]
                            By Mr. MURRAY, (210) to repeal an act amending an act defining
                                misdemeanors, approved February 19, 1857, and to revise section 28
                                of the act approved June 14, 1852.
                            By Mr. McLEAN: (211) to regulate the business of Foreign Insurance
                                Companies in the State of Indiana, providing that all companies of
                                other States doing business in this State shall have at least
                                $100,000 capital, securely and safely invested, and no agent shall
                                do any business, under penalty, for any company not authorized by
                                the provisions of the act.
                            Mr. Wilson's bill (63) to amend section 5 of an act providing for
                                equalizing the assessment of real property, approved May 28,1852;
                                was finally passed the Senate - yeas 36, nays 0.
                            Mr. Conley's bill, (201) introduced yesterday afternoon, was read the
                                second time and referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                            By leave, Mr. STEELE offered the following resolution, which was
                                adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That when the Senate adjourn,
                                            it stand adjourned until Monday next at 2 o'clock, P.
                                            M.
                                    
                                
                            
                            A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of
                                the bill (H. R. 28) legalizing the acts of a Justice of the Peace in
                                Jackson county.
                            The following bills were read the second time and referred to
                                appropriate committees:
                            Senator Gooding's (138) to the State Library. Senators Wallace's
                                (140), Wagner's (147), Conley's (176), Bennett's (150), Jones'
                                (158), Hill's (155),Slack's (183),Blair's(161), March's (164),
                                Heffren's (165), Bobbs' (169), March's (188), Cooper's (189),
                                Heffren's (191), Miller's (194), March's (195), Shomaker's (198),
                                Studabaker's (199), Tarkington's (200), and Green's (202) to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.
                            Senator Conner's (146), to Messrs. Conner, March and Carnahan.
                            Senator O'Brien's (177), to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.
                            Senator Shoemaker's (178), to the Committee on
                                    Roads.
                            Senators McClure's (152), Cravens' (156), Tarkington's (162), and
                                Tarkington's (171), to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.
                            Senators Wagner's (159), Williams' (160), and Jones (167), to the
                                    Committee on Finance.
                            Senator Lomax's (175), to Messrs. Lomax, Cooper and Gooding.
                            Senator O'Brien'a (163), to Messrs. O'Brien, Cobb, Bennett, Heffren
                                and Murray.
                            Senators Heffren's (173), and Wagner's (187), to the 
                                    Committee on Banks.
                            Senator Tarkington's (166), to a Committee of one from each
                                Congressional District, viz: Messrs. Carnahan, Heffren, Cobb,
                                Stevens, Bennett, Bobbs, McLean, Wagner, Brown, Hamilton and
                                Murray.
                            Senator Lomax's (190), to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.
                            Senator Robinson'e (197) to Messrs. Robinson, Ma ch, Wallace, Steele
                                and Hamilton.
                            Senators Cobb's (139), McLean's (141), McClure's (148), Thompson's
                                (153), Bobbs' (180), Jennings' (154), Committee on
                                    Benevolent In- 
                                    stitutions' (203), Johnston's (184), and Blair's
                                (174), were ordered to be engrossed for the third reading.
                            On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, the bill (H. R. 163) authorizing certain
                                corporations to borrow money and secure the repayment thereof by
                                mortgage was taken from the table and the House amendment thereto,
                                inserting in the proper place the words, "bridge companies
                                incorporated under the laws of this State," was concurred in.
                            Mr. STEVENS desired to amend, by unanimous consent, so that the act
                                would confer the same benefit on persons as on corporations.
                            The PRESIDENT pro tempore[Mr. Hendry in the Chair]
                                decided the amendment out of order.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the title of the bill was amended so as to
                                include bridge companies.
                            Mr. MARCH, by leave, offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                authorizing the State Librarian to sell the desks lately used in the
                                Senate Chamber at private sale, if in his opinion said sale can be
                                made more satisfactory than at public sale.
                            And then the Senate adjourned.
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             SATURDAY, February 12, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            By Mr. WOODS: of sundry citizens of Francisco, Gibson county, for
                                some legislation to authorize the keeping open of the Southern
                                Division of the Wabash and Erie Canal; which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Canals and Internal
                                Improvements.
                            By the SPEAKER: a number of petitions in relation to the University
                                Square, in the town of Indianapolis, which, with a petition
                                presented by Mr. Kempf, were referred without reading to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            By Mr. COMSTOCK: of William Ryner and others, of Stockdale and
                                vicinity, on the subject of temperance, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance.
                            By Mr. CLEMENTS: of A. Martin, appraiser of Daviess county, with
                                reference to the Wabash and Erie Canal interest, as connected with
                                the value of property in said county, which was referred to
                                    the Committee on Canals and Internal
                                    Improvements.

                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE - Judiciary - returning Mr.
                                Hunter's bill (122) authorizing the holders of bad paper currency to
                                sue and recover on the same, without making previous holders liable,
                                &c., recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. MELLETT - Judiciary - returning his bill
                                (209) to amend the 38th section of the felony act of June 10,
                                1852(professional gambling) recommending passage with a substitute
                                for the first section, to this effect:
                            Said section 38 shall prescribe, that any person who shall be found
                                wandering about from place to place, gambling for a livelihood,
                                shall be deemed a professional gambler, and upon conviction shall be
                                imprisoned in the Penitentiary, not less than one nor more than
                                three years, or in the county jail not less than three nor more than
                                six months, and be disfranchised for any determinate period.
                            The amendment was adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. DAVIS - Judiciary - returning Mr.
                                Colgrove's bill (127) for the conveyancing of real estate by any
                                person claiming a right thereto, and recommending indefinite
                                postponement; which was concurred in.
                            By same - returning his bill (160) to amend the first section of an
                                act providing for extending terms of the Circuit Courts by
                                adjournment, approved February 12; 1855, and to authorize the Judge
                                to hold special terms, recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. COLGROVE, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts of Justice, returned his bill (47)
                                re-organizing the Circuit Courts, &c., with an amendment in the
                                5th section, inserting the words "and jurisdiction of all other
                                cases civil or criminal, not otherwise provided for by law." The
                                amendment was adopted and the bill made the special order for Monday
                                2 o'clock.
                            By same - returning his bill (55) giving Clerk of Circuit Courts
                                probate jurisdiction, and recommending passage. On motion by Mr.
                                Stanfield it was made the special order as above.
                            By same - returning his bill (56) repealing Common Pleas - it was
                                made the same special order.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY moved ineffectually to reconsider these three
                                votes.
                            On motion by Mr. EDWARDS (under a dispensation) Mr. Speaker Gordon's
                                motion to rescind the rule of adjournment from 11 o'clock Saturday
                                till 2 o'clock Monday was taken up and the rule was reconsidered -
                                yeas 62, nays 10.Messrs. Claypool, Shields, Kempf and Parks had
                                leave of absence till Tuesday.
                            Mr. JONES moved ineffectually to take up his resolution granting
                                leave of absence, after the 15th instant, except in case of
                                sickness, &c.
                            Mr. COTTON said he had observed an error in the published reports, in
                                which he was placed in the negative in the vote on the engrossment
                                of Mr. Sherman's bill (168) to amend the title and first section of
                                the act of February 5th, 1852,authorizing road companies to borrow
                                money and secure the repayment thereof by mortgage. He observed the
                                same error in the Journal, and desired its correction. It was so
                                ordered.
                            The House now resumed the unfinished business of yesterday, viz: Mr.
                                Boyd's bill (157) securing personal property to married women - the
                                question being on the motion to recommit to a select committee with
                                instructions to amend, by confining its provisions to cases where
                                property has been set off under our exemption laws.
                            Mr. BOYD showed that the act of 1857 did not meet the cases of relief
                                sought by this bill. Its object was simply to carry out and perfect
                                the provisions of existing laws to prevent, pauperism, &c., and
                                he explained the provisions and the effect of the bill, replied to
                                the objections of the committee reporting on the bill, and the
                                arguments in opposition.
                            The bill was then recommitted with the instructions to Messrs.
                                Murray, Dougherty, Hall, of Rush, Firestone and Parks.

                        

                    
                    

                
                
                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 18, 1859.
                        No. 12.
                    
                    
                        
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY moved to add to the instructions:

                            "The consent of the wife, prescribed in the first section, shall be
                                evidenced by a writing her, and attested by a competent
                                witness."
                            Mr. MELLETT proposed to add: "Provided, that such writing be legally
                                acknowledged, subscribed before a Justice of the Peace, certifying
                                that the wife has not been coerced," &c. 
                             After further debate by Mr. Speaker GORDON (Mr. Branham in the
                                Chair) in favor of the bill, and by Mr. DAVIS in opposition - 
                             Mr. COLLIER declared opposition to Mr. Mellett's instructions.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD. It seems to be the impression that where the husband
                                is worthless, the wife is a pattern of excellence and virtue. His
                                observation was, that where the husband is worthless, the wife also
                                is defective in character, and he proceeded to object to the
                                bill.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, defended the bill.
                            Mr. STILES opposed, and moved to lay all the instructions on the
                                table.
                            Mr. COLLIER demanded a division the first question being on tabling
                                Mr. Mellett's instructions, was lost yeas 30, nays 36.
                            The House then refused to table Mr. Dougherty's instructions, and
                                then Mr. Dougherty's and Mr. Mellett's instructions were together
                                rejected.
                            Mr. STILES proposed further to instruct the committee to amend the
                                bill so as to require the husband to obtain the consent of his wife
                                before he shall be allowed to vote.
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD proposed to add instructions providing that no married
                                man shall sell any part of his property without the consent of the
                                wife, and in case he have no wife, without the consent of the oldest
                                daughter, the next oldest, and so on.
                            The SPEAKER ruled these to be out of order.
                            Mr. CAVINS, from the Committee on Claims, reported
                                the papers in the case of the claim of John and Jacob Stofer, and
                                they were referred to the Committe on Ways and
                                    Means.
                            Mr. WILDMAN, from same committee, reported that the claim of Charles
                                W. Seeley ought not to be allowed, which was concurred in.
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges, returned
                                Mr. Hartley's bill (213) to amend the 27th section of the assessment
                                act of 1852, recommending passage, and it was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. PARKS, from the same committee, returned certain game law
                                petitions, with a motion to lay on the table, the committee having
                                heretofore reported a bill on the subject.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK, from the Committee on Roads,
                                returned Mr. Massey's bill (77) revising the supervisors' act;
                                proposing to amend by adding the latter clause of the 3d section of
                                the present supervisor' act; also the 4th section of the present
                                law.
                            Mr. EARLY could not consent to a law compelling supervisors to
                                serve.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK. The committee were in favor of the present law, which
                                prescribes a penalty of $6 for a supervisor refusing to serve.
                            Mr. NEBEKER. What is the supervisors' compensation?
                            Mr. COMSTOCK. One dollar a day.
                            The amendments were then adopted, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            By Mr. STILES - Corporations - returning Mr. Parks' bill (140)
                                revising the city incorporation laws, recommending indefinite
                                postponement, which was concurred in.
                            On motion by Mr. SNYDER, (under a dispensation) it was - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That a special committee of
                                            five be appointed, whose duty it shall be to inquire
                                            into the propriety and practicability of erecting
                                            another State Prison in the north part of the State.
                                    
                                
                            
                            The SPEAKER makes the said committee to consist of Messrs. Snyder,
                                Harrison, Murray, Sherman and Robinson.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                             Mr. MELLETT, (under a dispensation) introduced a bill (248)
                                supplemental to the act to authorize and regulate the business of
                                general banking, and authorizing the Auditor and Treasurer of State
                                to surrender securities deposited in certain cases.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD: a bill (249) to fix the time of holding Common
                                Pleas in the counties of St. Joseph, Marshall and Starke, and the
                                length of the terms thereof.
                            By Mr. RITTER, (for Dr. Shields): a bill (250) to compel county
                                boards to declare all roads that have been surveyed and located,
                                which pass through one or more counties, public highways, and
                                prescribing the duty of county officers in relation thereto.
                            By Mr. DAVIS: a bill (251) relative to the conveyance and purchase of
                                lands sold by executors, administrators and guardians.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD: a bill (252) repealing the 9th section, and
                                amending 7th section of the 
                                act of December 21, 1842, to incorporate the South Bend
                                Manufacturing Company.
                            By Mr. NELSON: a bill (253) to provide for the transfer of real
                                estate for taxes on the books of the county auditor, and preserving
                                the chain of title thereto in the Recorder's office.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD: a bill (254) making the registry of sales of
                                Michigan Road lands and certified copies of entries of sections
                                therein evidence, and declaring the effect thereof; and making the
                                records of patents and certificates of purchase, and other evidence
                                in writing of the sale of real estate, and certified copies of such
                                records evidence, and declaring the effect thereof.
                            By Mr. DAVIS: (255) to abolish the complete record of cases in the
                                Supreme Court.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE: (256) to amend the 71st sec. of the justices' act of
                                June 9, 1852.
                            By Mr. SNYDER: (257) to provide for the organization of new counties,
                                the representation thereof and the administration of justice
                                therein.
                            By Mr. DAVIS: (258) to repeal the 5th sec. of the act to authorize
                                railroad companies to consolidate their stock with companies in this
                                State and in the adjoining States, approved February 23 1853.
                            By Mr. PARRETT: (259) to amend the 22nd sec. of a misdemeanor act -
                                (fine and imprisonment for lewdness and public indecencies.]
                            By Mr. WATERMAN: (260) to provide for paying witnesses' fees out of
                                the county treasury in certain cases.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD: (261) to amend the 77th sec. of the practice act of
                                June 18, 1852, [in regard to ruling on frivilous demurrers and sham
                                defenses.]
                            By Mr. DAVIS: (262) to repeal an act to prevent railroad companies
                                from changing their depots, except on conditions, &c., approved
                                March 4, 1853.
                            By Mr. CAVINS: (263) to amend sec. 37 of the misdemeanor act [in
                                regard to sale of intoxicating drinks within two miles of religious
                                meetings.]
                            By Mr. PARRETT: (264) to amend the 74th sec, of the justices' act
                                [all matters of defense, except such as are barred by limitation,
                                shall be given in abatement without plea, under oath, &c.]
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading.
                            On motion by Mr. ROW, (under a dispensation) it was - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the  Committee
                                                on County and Township Business be
                                            instructed to inquire into the expediency of providing
                                            by law for the establishment of sections, corners and
                                            township lines, where the original corners of such
                                            sections and the mark of such lines ought to
                                            established, though witness trees may indicate a
                                            different corner, &c.; and also where a section is
                                            about to be divided up equitably, and report,
                                            &c.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        ResolvedThat in all cases where, in the
                                            opinion of the Committee on Ways and Means, it becomes
                                            necessary for them to investigate and inquire into the
                                            finances of the State, or the conduct of the officers
                                            thereof, or the conduct of any trustee of funds
                                            entrusted to or belonging to the State, said committee
                                            shall have power to send for persons and papers, and
                                            compel disclosures under oath.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. SHERMAN the Senate amendments to his bill (168) were
                                taken up and concurred in.
                            The Senate amendment to Mr. Merrifield's bill (36) fixing the time of
                                holding courts in the 9th Judicial circuit"the act shall take effect
                                from and after the1st of June, 1859" was concurred in.
                            Mr. NEBEKER of Warren, (under dispensation) returned from the select
                                committee thereon, the bill fixing the time of Common Pleas in the
                                counties of Warren, Benton and Jasper, recommending passage: and the
                                bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. BROTHERTON, from the select committee thereon, returned Mr.
                                Shull's bill (178) fixing the Common Pleas in the county of
                                Blackford; recommending passage, and the bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            On motion by Mr. HARTLEY (under dispensation) it was - 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Committe on
                                                the Judicary be instructed to inquire into
                                            the expediency of passing a law to carry out the
                                            provisions of the 13th article of the Constitution of
                                            this State, and report, &c.
                                    
                                
                            
                             On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, the vote above, concurring in the Senate
                                amendments to Mr. Sherman's bill (168,) was reconsidered, and said
                                amendment was amended so as to include "bridge companies
                                incorporated under the laws of this State;" and then the amendment
                                as amended was concurred in, and the Clerk was ordered to acquaint
                                the Senate therewith.
                            Mr. Smith, of Perry's, bill (145) to provide additional securities to
                                the bondholders and to the people in issuing certificates of stock
                                issued upon the original bonds of the State, coming up it was
                                referred to the Judiciary Committee.
                            On motion by Mr. PARRETT, his bill (245) authorizing deeds and
                                mortgages heretofore acknowledged before County Auditors, to be
                                recorded, &c., and also that the record thereof be read in
                                evidence, &c., was considered on the second reading and referred
                                to the Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr. HARRISON, from the Committeee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Mr. Snyder's bill (236) fixing the
                                Common Pleas in Warren, Benton and Jasper, recommending passage.
                            Also, from the select committee thereon, he returned bill (117) to
                                amend the act providing far opening, vacating and changing highways,
                                &c. recommending passage.
                            Mr. LAWHEAD, from the select thereon, returned the committees
                                colonization bill (170) recommending passage.
                            Mr. FORDYCE, from the select committee thereon, returned Mr. Hunter's
                                bill (115) revising the township business act of May 6,1852,
                                recommending passage.
                            These several bills were ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. HARRISON returned the petition of H. B. Falconbridge, and it was
                                laid on the table.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             The bill (S. 13) in regard to the sale of swamp land,was considered
                                on the second reading; referred to the Committee on Swamp
                                    Lands .
                            The bill (S. 193)the Carnahan liquor bill failed on the order to the
                                third reading.
                            Mr. Kempf's bill (238; to authorize houses of refuge, &c. was
                                referred to a select committee 
                                namely: Messrs. Kempf, Shields, Snyder and Waterman.
                            Mr. Hamilton, of Boone's, bill (242) regulating the fees of county
                                auditors, treasurers and clerks, was referred to Committee
                                    on Fees and Salaries.
                            The committee's bill (247) for the enlargement of the State Prison,
                                coming up - 
                            Mr. SCOTT moved that it be referred to the select committee raised by
                                Mr. Snyder's resolution of this day.
                            The subject was passed over informally.
                            Mr. Turpie's bill (243) was referred to the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Conner's bill (244) was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.
                            The bill (S. 63) to amend the appraisement law of May 28, 1852 -
                                [Congressional District Boards of Equalization] - was ordered was
                                ordered to the third reading.
                            The bill (S. 112) to revise the act of March 9, 1857, for the
                                incorporation of cities and towns, was ordered to the third
                                reading.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, (under a dispensation,) reported adversely to
                                Mr. Griffin's bill (219) for the relief of Ira Dibble, and the
                                subject was laid on the table for the present.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, (for Mr. Harney,) introduced a bill (265) to
                                amend sections 8 and 11 of the misdemeanor act - [public nuisances,
                                sale of unwholesome provisions.]
                            Mr. MURRAY, (under a dispensation,) submitted the following, which
                                was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That a Committee of five,
                                                composed of practical printers, be appointed to
                                                report a bill fixing the prices of the public
                                                printing in this State.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            The SPEAKER announced the committe on the above resolution, namely:
                                Messrs. Murray, Miller, Gregory, Jones and Newton.
                            Mr. BROTHERTON, by leave, introduced a bill (266) to provide for the
                                transfer from the Court of Common Pleas to the Circuit Court,
                                certain cases wherein the Common Pleas have no jurisdiction; which
                                bills were passed the first reading.
                            The House then adjourned till Monday, 9 o'clock.
                        


                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            
                                Monday, February 14, 1859.
                            
                        
                        On motion of Mr. MURRAY, the reading of the Journal was dispensed
                            with.
                        On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the special order for this hour [2 o'clock],
                            being his Caban resolutions [printed on page 77 of these reports] was
                            postponed till this day two weeks.
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. McLEAN, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Tarkington's bill (200) recommending that it lie on the table.
                                The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. MARCH, from the same committee, returned his bill (195)
                                recommending its passage. The report was concurred in and the bill
                                ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. COBB, from the same committee, returned Mr. McLean's bill (141)
                                recommending indefinite postponement.
                            On motion by Mr. WALLACE, the report and bill were laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. BENNETT, from the same committee, returned his bill (150)
                                recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. CONNER, from the same committee, returned Mr. Miller's bill (194)
                                recommending indefinite postponement.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the report and bill were laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. MARCH, from the same committee, returned Mr. Jones' bill (158)
                                recommending its passage. It was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. CONNER, from the Committee on Canals and Internal Improvements,
                                to which was referred the petitions on the subject of the Wabash and
                                Erie Canal, reported a bill (212) on the subject, recommending its
                                passage.
                            On motion by Mr. CONNER, the rules were suspended, and the bill (212)
                                releasing the right of the State of Indiana to redeem the Wabash and
                                Erie Canal and grant permission to rent or lease the same; and
                                matters properly connected therewith; was read the first time.
                            This bill, provides for the releasing of the right of the State of
                                Indiana to redeem the Wabash and Erie Canal, and granting permission
                                to the Trustees of said canal to rent or lease the same.
                            SECTION 1. Simply releases the right of the State
                                to redeem the canal; leaving the acts of 1846 and 1847, and the
                                trust created thereby, in full force, and in no wise impaired or
                                changed.
                            SEC. 2. Grants permission to the Canal Trustees to
                                rent or lease the canal or any part thereof, to any person or
                                corporation, upon first obtaining the consent of the stockholders in
                                the canal.
                            SEC. 3. Provides that the lessees shall keep the
                                canal in good navigable order, under penalty of forfeiting all right
                                under such lease, saving the rights of lessees who may be engaged in
                                making repairs in good faith
                            SEC. 4. Confers the power of collecting tolls,
                                preserving the canal, &c., on the lessees.
                            SEC. 5. Releases the Canal Trustees from building
                                bridges.
                            SEC. 6. Expressly declares that nothing in the act
                                shall be so construed as to create, revive, or recognize the
                                existence of any liability on the part of the State for that portion
                                of the public debt which was settled by the acts of 1846 and 1847,
                                and charged over to the canal.
                            SEC. 7. Contains an emergency clause.
                            On motion of Mr. CARNAHAN the bill was read the second time by title,
                                laid on the table nd 200 copies ordered to be printed.
                            Mr. GOODING, by leave, from the Judiciary
                                    Committee, returned Mr. Jones' bill (133) recommending
                                indefinite postponement. The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. SLACK, from the same committee, returned Mr. HEFFREN'Sbill (191)
                                recommending indefinite postponement.
                            On motion of Mr. HEFFREN, the report and bill were laid on the
                                table.
                            By the same, from the same committee, Mr. Bobbs' bill (169)
                                recommending indefinite postponement. The report was concurred
                                in.
                            Mr. SHOEMAKER, by leave, from the Committee on Roads, returned his
                                bill (178) recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            [On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, Mr. Wallace's bill (2), relating to a
                                choice of United States Senators, was made the special order for
                                Wednesday next at 10 o'clock.]
                            Mr. MURRAY, by leave, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                Courts, returned Mr Green's bill (128), recommending its
                                passage.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            
                            Mr. LOMAX, from a select committee, returned his bill (137),
                                recommending that it was inexpedient to legislate further on that
                                subject.
                            On motion by Mr. LOMAX, the report and bill were laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. HEFFREN, from a select committee, returned his bill (70),
                                recommending its passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. HENDRY, from a select committee, returned his bill (186),
                                recommending its passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                        
                        
                             NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced and severally passed the first
                                reading.
                            By Mr. BLAIR: (213), to amend sections 50, 65 and 66 of an act
                                providing for the settlement of decedents' estates, approved June
                                17,1852.
                            By Mr. CONLEY: (214), to amend section 18 of the justices' act,
                                approved June 9, 1853.
                            By Mr. CRAVEN: (215), authorizing the voters of townships to vote a
                                tax to finish unfinished railroads running through their
                                townships.
                            By Mr. O'BRIEN: (216), to amend sections 79 and 80 of an act to
                                provide for a general system of common schools, approved March 5,
                                1855.
                            By Mr. McLEAN: (217), to provide for the enlargement of the State
                                Prison, prescribing the duties of officers in relation thereto, and
                                appropriating $50,000 therefor.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the rules were suspended, the bill read the
                                second time by title, and referred to the Committee on State
                                Prison.
                            [A. message was received from the Governor, announcing his approval
                                and signature of the bill (H.R. 168), authorizing road companies to
                                borrow money and secure the payment thereof by mortgage.]
                            By Mr. SLACK: (218), defining the meaning of the Constitution and
                                preventing the importation of legal voters.
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. MURRAY, by leave, presented a memorial from certain citizens of
                                Cass county, in reference to their County Seminary, which was
                                referred to the Judiciary Committee without
                                reading.
                            Mr. CONLEY, by leave, presented a petition from citizens of Greene
                                county on the subject of the Wabash and Erie Canal, which was
                                referred to the  Committee on Canals and Internal
                                    Improvements, without reading.
                            The bill (H. R. 93), to amend the 6th section, and third clause of
                                the 7th section of the divorce act approved March 13, 1852; coming
                                up - 
                            Mr. MARCH offered the following amendments, which were adopted:
                            Amending section 12, so as to require only ten instead of fourteen
                                days personal notice to the defendants.
                            Section 19, so that the defendant can proceed to trial of his cross
                                petition, although original petition is dismissed.
                            Section 19 and 20, so as to give courts discretionary power in
                                granting alimony, and giving the husband an interest only in his own
                                lands, when he obtains a divorce.
                            Giving courts power in certain cases to control the custody of
                                children after decree of divorce by publication.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the rules were suspended, the bill read the
                                third time, and finally passed the Senate by yeas 37, nays 2.
                            The following House bills were then read the second time and referred
                                to appropriate committees.
                            No's 3,16, 20, 28, 57, 69, 82,95, 101 and 133 were referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.
                            No's 5, 59 and 103 were referred to the Committee on
                                    Education.
                            No's 27 and 121 were referred to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.
                            No. 48 was referred to the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business.
                             No's 60, 85 and 86 were ordered to be engrossed.
                            No. 70 was referred to the Swamp Land
                                Committee.
                            No. 104 was referred to the Committee on Agriculture.
                            No. 169 was referred to the Committe on
                                Finance.
                            No. 210 was referred to Senators Shoemaker, Carnahan and Lomax.
                            Senator Cobb's bill (151) was read the second time and referred to
                                Messrs. Slack, Wallace and Cobb.
                            Mr. WALLACE, by leave, from a select committee, returned Mr. Hill's
                                bill (88) and Mr. Conley's bill (99) recommending that 88 lie on the
                                table and that 99 be passed with amendments.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Pending the consideration of amendments to the bill - 
                            The Senate adjourned.
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        REPORTED BY ARIEL DRAPIER/
                        
                             MONDAY, February 14, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. STANFIELD, from the Committee on the
                                Judiciary, returned Mr. Parks' bill (208), to provide for
                                the case of vacancy or removal from office of the Governor and
                                Lieutenant Governor; and declaring that the Secretary of State shall
                                serve; recommending an amendment, adding: "All laws inconsistent
                                herewith be repealed," and that so the bill pass.
                            It was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By same - returning Mr. Keefer's bill (200), to punish embezzlements
                                - recommending an amendment, adding appropriately, "of the value of
                                $25 and upwards," and so amended, recommended the bill "as complete
                                for the action of the House."
                            It was laid on the table for the present.
                            Mr. CARR, from the select committee thereon, returned the petition of
                                John F. Wiley and Son, of Clark county, in reference to the building
                                of a turnpike road from Charlestown to Jeffersonville, in said
                                county, with the assistance of prison labor, with the expression of
                                opinion that legislation thereon is inexpedient.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. WATERMAN, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill
                                (212), prescribing part of the duties of county officers in relation
                                to road tax, recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. LAWHEAD, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Parks' bill (161), to repeal
                                the colonization act of 1852, with a motion to lay on the table.
                            The bill was laid on the table accordingly.
                            
                            On motion by Mr. COMSTOOK, the Commitee's bill (198), to prohibit the
                                owners of bulls, boars, and rams from suffering the same to run at
                                large, and the two reports thereon from the Committee on Rights and
                                Privileges, were taken up and referred to a select committee of
                                five, viz: Messrs. Comstock, Boxley, Wheeler, Major and Clark. 
                        
                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            Mr Mellett's bill (248), was referred to the Committee on
                                    Banks.
                            Mr.Stanfield's bills (249, 252, 254), Mr. Nelson's (253), Mr. Davis'
                                (255, 258, 262), Mr, Synder's (257), Mr. Parrett's (264), were
                                severally ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr Davis' bill (251), Mr. Stanfield's (261), Mr. Parrott's(259), Mr.
                                Brotherton's (266), were referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            Mr. Ritter's bill (250), was referred to the Committee on
                                    Roads.
                            Mr. Cavins' bill (262), Mr. Harney's (265),. ,rere referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and privileges.
                            Mr. Waterman's bill (260,) was referred to the Committee on
                                    Organization of Courts.
                        
                        
                            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
                             Mr. Colgrove's bill (246), relinquishing to the Trustees the State's
                                reversionary interest in the Wabash and Erie Canal, coming up - 
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON (Mr. Stanfield in the Chair) submitted an
                                amendment, by way of substitute, providing - 
                            That the State of Indiana hereby releases, remises, and forever quit
                                claims unto the Trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal, to their
                                successors in office, and unto their as signs and lessees all
                                residuary estate, right, title, interest and claim of, in, and to
                                the Wabash and Erie Canal, and to all lands, and rights of every
                                kind and description whatever, whether real or personal, corporeal
                                or incorporeal, to and for the only proper use, benefit and behoof
                                of the bondholders of the State of Indiana who became interested
                                therein, and entitled thereto under the provisions of an act
                                entitled "an act to provide for the funded debt of the State of
                                Indiana, and for the completion of the Wabash and Erie Canal to
                                Evansville,'' approved January 19th, 1846, and in act supplemental
                                thereto, entitled "an act, to provide for ihe funded debt of the
                                State of Indiana, and for the completion of the Wabash and Erie
                                Canal to Eveansville," approved January 27th, 1847:Provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be
                                so construed as to release the said Trustees, their assigns, and
                                lessees, or the stockholders therein, or their assigns, from any
                                legally existing obligation upon them or any or either of them to
                                keep up, repair and maintain said canal, and all the supplies of
                                water power thereto pertaining, according to the true intent and
                                meaning of the aforesaid act; nor to prevent the forfeiture by said
                                Trustees, their assigns and lessees, of the said canal, and all the
                                property and rights aforesaid pertaining thereto, to the State of
                                Indiana, or by reason of the failure of them, or any or either of
                                them to keep up repair or maintain the said canal according to the
                                true intent and meaning of the acts aforesaid, or for the failure of
                                them, or any or either of them to do and perform every and all other
                                acts, conditions and things now legally incumbent on them to
                                perform; nor shall anything herein contained or any forfeiture
                                arising from any of the causes foresaid, or for any cause whatever,
                                and the assertion of the rights of the State to the property, and
                                the franchises of the said Trustees, their assigns or lessees, be
                                construed to entitle the bondholders of the State who have become
                                interested in said Canal, or any stockholder therein, or any other
                                person whomsoever, to any right, claim or demand upon the State of
                                Indiana to which such bondholder, stockholder or other person was
                                not justly and legally entitled prior to the passage of this act:
                                    And provided further, that nothing herein
                                contained shall be construed prevent the said Trustees, by and with
                                the consent of stockholders in said Canal, from assigning or leasing
                                the same to such company or companies incorporated under the laws of
                                this State, as they may find most conducive to the interest of the
                                owners thereof and the maintainance of said Canal; but the said
                                Trustees are hereby authorized and empowered to assign and lease the
                                same aa aforesaid, under the direction of the stockholders therein,
                                and for the purposes in this proviso expressed.
                            SEC. 2. Emergency.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren. Will that release the right of the State to
                                regulate the fees and salaries of the trustees?
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON. That is a sovereign right, and could not be
                                relinquished in that way.
                            Mr. COLGROVE submitted an amendment to the amendment, and moved that
                                the bill and amendments be referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            Amend the 1st section by striking out all after the 224 line and
                                inserting the following:
                            And by the provisions of the two above recited acts, to the State or
                                to any individual, person or corporation, but it is expressly
                                declared and understood to be the true intent and meaning of this
                                act, that each and every obligation assumed by, and in any manner
                                imposed upon said trustees or bondholders, either to the State or
                                the lessees of water power, or any private individual, company or
                                corporation, is hereby expressly reserved to the State, private
                                individual, company or corporation as fully and in as ample a manner
                                as though the State had not surrendered her right of redemption or
                                reversion to said Canal Trustees: Provided,
                                    further, That the State, for the purpose of securing the
                                faithful execution of said trust and securing herself, as well as
                                her citizens, from loss, therefore nothing in this act shall be so
                                construed as in any way whatever to change the relation of the State
                                to said Trustees created in said acts referred to, or to those for
                                whose benefit said trust was created, except as before provided for,
                                but said trust shall continue in full force in all respects as
                                created, and as if the right of redemption had not been released
                                upon the part of the State: Provided, further,
                                Should said Canal Trustees,upon the part of the parties for whose
                                use said trust was created, or said uses, fail, neglect, or refuse
                                faithfully to fulfill and execute their part of said trust, and to
                                comply with all the duties and obligations upon them imposed by said
                                acts referred to; then, and in that case, said trust and all the
                                rights and privileges therein granted shall be void; and in that
                                case said Canal, and all the property, rights and privileges, so as
                                aforesaid, by the State granted in trust, shall revert to the
                                State.
                            And by adding the following sections:
                            Sec. 2. The Trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal,
                                with the assent of the parties for whose benefit said trust was
                                created,may lease, for the use of the boldholders, said Canal, or
                                any part thereof, to any person or persons, company or corporation,
                                who will obligate himself or themselves to keep said Canal, or such
                                portion thereof as may be embraced in such lease, in good navigable
                                order.
                            Sec. 3. Such lessee or lessees shall have all the
                                power now conferred by law upon the Trustees of said Canal, to
                                collect tolls and water rents, and to protect, preserve and maintain
                                the same for navigable purposes, and all other officers or agents
                                necessary to accomplish said object.
                            Sec. 4. The Trustees of said canal are hereby
                                released from all obligations imposed by the act transferring said
                                Canal to them, to build and maintain bridges thereon.
                            Sec. 5. Nothing contained in this act shall be se construed as to
                                create, revive or recognize the existence of any liability on the
                                part of the State, for that portion of the public debt which was, by
                                the arrangement made with the creditors of the State, by the said
                                acts of 1846 '47, referred to and charged over to the Canal, the
                                true intent and meaning of this act being to waive a right, and not
                                to assume or recognize the existence of a liability.
                            The bill and proposed amendments were referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                             By Mr. CLEMENTS: a bill (267) prescribing the times of holding and
                                the length of terms of holding of Courts in the Third Judicial
                                Circuit.
                            By Mr. CLEMENTS: (268) prescribing the times of holding the Court of
                                Common Pleas in the several counties therein named.
                            
                            By Mr. EDWARDS: (269) concerning enclosures; trespassing animals,
                                fencing and enclosing railroads connected therewith and on the
                                ground of any railroad companies.
                            By Mr. EDWARDS: (270) declaring it to be a misdemeanor to break down,
                                open or remove any fence of any railroad, and prescribing a penalty
                                therefor.
                            By Mr. SNYDER: (271) making it a felony to cut down, or cut down and
                                carry away any standing timber, or to carry away any down timber in
                                certain cases therein named, and to prescribe punishment
                                therefor.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD: (272) defining the meaning of the word fence as
                                used in the act concerning corporations: [include hedges, ditches,
                                &c., used in the nature of a fence.]
                            By Mr. MERRIFIELD: (273) to legalize changes of highways made by
                                railroads in this State.
                            By Mr. COTTON: (274) to provide for the care of, and the enclosure of
                                Square No. 25, in the City of Indianapolis, and providing for its
                                use as a State House, and providing for the use of the present State
                                House for a State University.
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading.
                        
                        
                            CREDENTIALS OF MEMBERS.
                            Mr. MURRAY, under a dispensition, returned from the
                                    Committee on Elections, the several
                                certificates of election of the one hundred members of the House of
                                Representatives, with the expression of opinion that said members
                                were all regularly elected, and without recommendation.
                            The report was ordered to be entered on the Journal.
                        
                        
                            REGISTRY OF VOTERS.
                            Mr. MURRAY, from the same committee, returned the petition of sundry
                                citizens of Clark county, for the passage of a law compelling
                                township assessors to take lists of the names of the legal voters in
                                the several townships of the State, and requiring of said legal
                                voters the production of a receipt for the payment of their taxes
                                before they shall have the right to vote at the general election,
                                reporting the expression of opinion "that legislation for this
                                purpose is unnecessary and inexpedient, and recommending that said
                                petition be laid on the table."The report was concurred in.
                        
                        
                            INCORPORATION OF CITIES.
                             The bill (S. 112) revising the law for the incorporation of cities,
                                coming up on the second reading - 
                            Mr. CAVINS proposed to refer the bill to the Judiciary Committee,
                                with instructions "to amend so as to provide for biennial instead of
                                annual elections of officers of cities "
                            Mr. COTTON proposed further to amend, by adding:
                            Sec. 9. The Common Council shall have power to compel railroad
                                companies having portions of their tracks within the limits of said
                                cities, to light the same, and provide a guard thereof, so as to
                                protect the lives and property of citizens.
                            The instructions were adopted, and the bill referred accordingly.
                            The bills S. No. 63, and S. No. 177, were ordered to the third
                                reading.
                            The bill S. No. 142 lies on the table, and 200 copies thereof were
                                ordered to be printed.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                             By Mr. DAVIS: (275), authorizing and directing the State Librarian
                                to furnish to the Warden of the State Prison, the Supreme Court
                                Reports, and laws, and Documentary Journals.
                            By Mr. Speaker GORDON: a bill (276), to amend section 5 of the act to
                                organize a Supreme Court, and prescribing certain duties of the
                                Judge thereof, approved May 13,1852.
                            By Mr. WATERMAN: (277), to amend section eight of the act to regulate
                                fees of officers and repealing former acts in relation thereto,
                                approved March 2, 1852. 
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES UNDER DISPENSATION.
                             By Mr. DAVIS - Judiciary - returning Mr Smith of
                                Perry's bill (145), to provide additional security to the
                                bondholders and the people, in issuing certificates of stock for the
                                original bonds of the State - recommending that the same be laid on
                                the table.
                            By Mr. STILES - Judiciary - returning Mr. Hamilton
                                of Boone's bill (232), amending the tenth section of the act
                                establishing Courts of Conciliation, approved June 11, 1852,
                                recommending idefinite postponement, " inasmuch as the House has
                                already taken action on a bill em bracing the same subject."
                            By Mr SCOTT - Judiciary - returning Mr. Mellett's
                                bill (163), to regulate the collection of judgments, and the sale of
                                property on execution against Sheriffs and others, receiving and
                                holding money, &c., in a fiduciary capacity, with the expression
                                of opinion that" legislation on the subject is inexpedient at this
                                time."
                            By same - returning Mr. Waterman's bill (239), regulating jury cases
                                to be tried first in the courts in this State, &c., and
                                recommending indefinite postponement.
                            By Mr. MELLETT - Judiciary - returning Mr.
                                Shields' bill (220), to amend the title and first section ot the act
                                of March 4,1852, vesting certain rights in married women whose
                                husbands have left, &c., recommending indefinite
                                postponement.
                            By Mr. DAVIS - Judiciary - returning Mr. Hunter's
                                bill (190), to amend the eleventh and twelfth sections of the Common
                                Pleas act of March 14, 1852, and recommending that " the same be
                                laid on the table, inasmuch as the subject matter has been already
                                acted on.
                            By Mr. MELLETT - Judiciary - returning Mr.
                                Knowlton's bill (240), to amend the fourteenth section of the
                                Justices' act, and recommending indefinite postponement.
                            By Mr. DAVIS - Judiciary - returning Mr.
                                Knowlton's bill (231), prescribing the duties of parties commencing,
                                prosecuting or defending actions in the Circuit and Common Pleas
                                Courts also, Mr. Murray's bill (241), to amend the ninety-seventh
                                section of the practice act, recommending postponement.
                            Which reports were severally concurred in.
                            By Mr. PARRETT - Judiciary - returning his bill
                                (245) authorizing and legalizing deeds and  mortgages acknowledged before a county
                                auditor transcripts of such to be read in evidence,and such
                                Conveyances to be valid, with an amendment to the following
                                effect:
                            SEC. 6. Patents for which issued by the United
                                States or by this State, and the certificates of parties to all
                                contracts may be recorded by the recorder of the county in which
                                such land is situated, and the record thereof may be readin evidence
                                with like effect as if such original instrument were produced.
                            The amendment was adopted and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE - Judiciary - returning Mr.
                                Hunter's bill (191) authorizing jurors to be summoned from an
                                adjoining county to try criminal causes in certain cases, and
                                recommending passage. 
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE - Judiciary - returning the bill
                                (S. 17) to provide for the partition of real estate - laying the
                                same out in town lots, without amendment, and recommending passage.
                                The bill was ordered to the third reading.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz: the consideration of
                                Mr. Colgrove's bills Nos 47, 55, 56re-organizing the Circuit Courts
                                giving probate jurisdiction to Clerks of the Circuit Courts,
                                prohibiting them from praticing law, &c.and repealing the act
                                establishing the Court Of Common Pleas.
                            Mr. COLGROVE. The three bills embrace a change in the judicial
                                system, and they are so inseparably connected, that one should not
                                be passed without the others, &c.
                            The House then resolved into Committe of the Whole
                                - Mr. Edwards in the chair - and took up and considered by sections,
                                the bill No. 47.
                            Mr. SHULL moved to amend the first section of the bill, by making the
                                number of the Circuits "20," instead of "30."
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, proposed "25."
                            Mr. COLGROVE showed that doing away of the Court of Common Pleas,
                                induced as great a saving as was desirable: after that 30 circuits
                                would be necessary.
                            Mr. SHULL. Nothing but retrenchment would satisfy the people, and he
                                saw no retrenchment in this proposition.
                            The amendments were rejected.
                            The first section was then agreed to - affirmative 56, negative
                                32.
                            Mr. MELLETT, for a test, moved indefinite postponement of the
                                bill.
                            Mr. BOYD desired to see the Probate system abolished, but he could
                                not vote for 30 circuits. He never would vote for 30 circuits, so
                                long as the business could be as well done with a less number.
                            Mr. KEEFER was opposed to this whole system of bills. His
                                constituents had a good Common Pleas Judge.
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON spoke to the question of economy as to the number
                                of circuits. The business of his county was never done under the
                                present system. No system was complete which denied the
                                administration and ends of justice. When gentlemen in favor of
                                economy in our judicial system, vote against this on account of its
                                expensiveness, they voted against their own proposition.
                            Mr. COLGROVE was surprised at this hostile demonstration toward his
                                bills. On what he regarded as a test vote, during the extra session,
                                there were 81 affirmatives for this proposition. It was not
                                altogether his proposition. It had been forced in here by the
                                spontaneous demand of the people. He spoke here for the eastern part
                                of the State. He spoke of the importance of a healthy judicial
                                system, and showed the wisdom of maintaining its respectability. The
                                Common Pleas system - the offspring of our new Constitution - was
                                liable to the objections of expensiveness and inefficiency. There
                                were 44 Judges of Common Pleas, and fifteen circuits making 59
                                courts. This was a proposition to reduce the number of the Judges
                                and of circuits to thirty. He showed the history of these bills,
                                going back to the Legislature of 1857. The annual expensiveness of
                                the Common Pleas in 65 counties, as reported by the State Auditor,
                                for 1856, was $99,248 27. Adding his estimate for the remaining 26
                                counties, which failed to show their hands, the cost of the Common
                                Pleas for 1856 was $138,700. But, if it was not a suggestion of
                                economy, he would oppose the Common Pleas,as affording an unhealthy
                                facility for litigation. He compared the expensiveness of the two
                                systems, and showed the advantage on the side of his own. The
                                expensiveness of the judicial system was attributable to the number
                                of courts, and their attendant bailiffs, jurors, &c. The line of
                                jurisdiction between the Common Pleas and Circuit Courts had never
                                been settled; and one of the results of this was, that the Supreme
                                Court was overwhelmed with appeals, until now no man could go into
                                the Supreme Court with any reasonable expectation of getting through
                                in less than two or three years. He showed also, that less than 30
                                Judges could not do the judicial business of the State.
                            He rehearsed the provisions of the bill, No. 55, whice gave surrogate
                                powers to the Clerks of the Circuit Courts, saving cases and
                                questions in the partition and sale of real estate in which the
                                title to real estate may be put in issue. Such was the practice now,
                                in effect. This system had been maintained in the State of New York,
                                as long as he could remember. He should very much regret to see the
                                system fail for want of agreement as to the number of circuits.
                            Mr. NEBEKER of Warren. He belonged not to a profession claiming
                                exclusively the prerogative of regulating the judiciary; but he was
                                a tax-payer, and could look at the case through figures. The present
                                Common Pleas judge salaries was $35,000. He favored the proposition
                                in another bill, to reduce the number of Common Pleas judges. The
                                proposed reduction of these judges to 20, and the reduction of terms
                                proposed, would admit of raising the salaries of the Common Pleas
                                judges to $1,200, and then make a large saving above that which
                                could be obtained under the system of the gentleman from Randolph.
                                He replied at length to Mr. Colgrove. The gentleman had passed over
                                the cost of his surrogate system without estimates, and he supposed
                                that also must cost something.
                            
                            Mr. BAIRD was pledged to this change in our judicial system, and had
                                not withheld his hand in the committee from a due share of the work
                                which had produced these bills. He also plead for the proposition on
                                the score of economy, and gave examples. From the zeal with which
                                the gentleman from Warren had pitched into these bills, it would not
                                surprise him to learn that the gentleman himself desired a Common
                                Pleas judgeship, for this very desire for judgeships has originated
                                and continued this Common Pleas system. He expected to have
                                advocated here a pure surrogate system, but had yielded to the fact
                                that it would involve expense, and then, in some counties, there
                                could not be found men to accept the office.
                            Mr. SCOTT did not understand the people as asking to abolish the
                                Common Pleas. Change of laws on frivolous pretenses should be
                                avoided. There should be a necessity for it before we change an
                                established system. He believed the expense of the proposed system
                                of Circuit Courts would be greater than the present. The great end
                                of a system of courts should be the speedy administration af
                                justice. He gave examples. Almost all the collecting business was
                                done in the Common Pleas. The Court of Common Pleas was deemed a
                                Court of Justice in his region, not a mere place to multiply errors-
                                He deprecated change. On this subject, if on any, he was a
                                conservative. He would go for reducing the number of the Common
                                Pleas districts.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN. There was a just gradation in our courts. The business
                                of the Common Pleas Court was necessarily more tardy than in the
                                Circuit Court, and less satisfactory; and as there was no appeal to
                                the Circuit Court, the eases of error had to go to the Supreme
                                Court, and so that docket was crowded beyond reason. He reasoned at
                                length in favor of the proposed system, giving examples.
                            Mr. COLGROVE indicated his willingness to accept of the compromise of
                                25 for the number circuits.
                            Mr. MELLETT had moved postponement, to test the sense of the House on
                                the system. But he was willing to withdraw for the compromise of the
                                friends of the bill.
                            Mr. MURRAY was not satisfied that the proposed system would save
                                anything. He reviewed the argument for the proposed change. It was
                                that the Common Pleas had leather-headed judges. Such an argument,
                                if admitted, would abolish every office in the State, and the
                                Legislature besides.
                            On motion by Mr. Speaker GORDON, the committee reconsidered the vote
                                agreeing to the first section, and adopted the following amendment,
                                striking out "30" and inserting "25" circuits.
                            Mr. HARNEY moved, now, that the committee rise and recommend the
                                indefinite postponement of the bill No. 47.
                            Mr. AUSTIN moved to amend that the committee rise and ask to be
                                discharged from the consideration of the subject.
                            The latter motion was agreed to; so the committee rose, the chairman
                                reported and the committee were discharged accordingly.
                            Mr. HARNEY moved indefinite postponement of the bill.
                            Mr. AUSTIN, though opposed to the abolition of the Common Pleas
                                Court, should also vote against postponement, because he was
                                unwilling to repress debate and investigation of the subject.
                            Mr. Harney's motion was lost by the following vote:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Black, Bowman, Boxley,
                                            Carr, Collier, Comstock, Durham, Gifford, Gregory,
                                            Harney. Hartley, Jones, Jordan, Knowlton, Lawhead,
                                            Lewis, McLain, Mellett, Murray, Nebeker of Vermillion,
                                            Nebeker of Warren, Nelson, Parrett, Ritter, Scott, Smith
                                            of Perry, Snyder, Stanfield, Summers, Tebbs, Thompson of
                                            Elkhart, Wheeler, Whiteman and Wood - 34.

                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Baird, Boyd,
                                            Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark, Clayton, Colgrove,
                                            Cotton, Davidson, Davis, Devol, Early, Edwards, Fordyce,
                                            Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton of Wayne,
                                            Harrison, Jeffries, Kelly, Kempf, Major, Mansfield,
                                            Massey, Merrifield, Martin, Robinson, Row, ShieIds,
                                            Shockley, Shull Smith of Miami, Sullivan, Treadway,
                                            Waterman, Whetzel,Wildman and Mr. Speaker-41.
                                    
                                
                            
                            The bill was then ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Colgrove's bill (55), giving Circuit Court Clerks probate
                                jurisdiction, prohibiting Clerks and their deputies from practicing
                                law, &c., coming up - 

                             Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, called for the yeas and nays on the question
                                of engrossment, and desired a test of the system.
                            Mr. COLGROVE said this bill was not hos. tile to the Common Pleas. It
                                was a mere relief of that Court, and a cheapening and simplification
                                of the probate businessa mere authorization of practice now, in most
                                cases in the State.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed - yeas 44, nays 28.
                            Mr. Colgrove's bill, No. 56, abolishing the Common Pleas, coming up - 
                            Mr. HARNEY asserted the popular approval of the Common Pleas Court in
                                his county, and believed this was the case wherever they had good
                                Judges. The establishment of this Court had stimulated the Circuit
                                Courts to a commendable zeal in working up their dockets; and he
                                reasoned briefly In favor of continuance of the Common Pleas, which
                                he believed had given all the satisfaction expected by its original
                                friends. He would not be willing to forego its advantages for its
                                alledged expensiveness.
                            Mr. COLGROVE replied, pleading for engrossment now, and a test vote
                                with a full House to-morrow.
                            The bill was then ordered to be engrossed.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House the petition of citizens of the
                                State, asking for a law requiring preferment of graduates of the
                                blind school amongst applicants for employment therein, which was
                                referred to the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions.
                            Mr. KNOWLTON presented the memorial of the Cass county and Eel River
                                Seminary Society, asking for an amendment of charter, which was
                                referred to the Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr. JORDAN presented the petition of Daniel Arloy, against the
                                ravages of dogs, which was ruled out of order, it being addressed to
                                the Honorable Harry Jordan, instead of the General Assembly.
                            The House then (at 5 o'clock) adjourned.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                    
                         IN SENATE.
                        
                             TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. CONNER presented a petition from certain citizens of Wabash
                                county, with reference to the Wabash and Erie Canal; which was laid
                                on the table.
                            Mr. HAMILTON presented a memorial from certain citizens of Allen
                                county, on the same subject; which was also laid on the table.
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                             Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee, turned
                                his bill (188), recommending its passage. The report was concurred
                                in, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. HENDRY, from the same committee, turned a resolution of inquiry
                                upon the question of authorizing County Auditors to sell mortgaged
                                lands for the nonpayment of principal and interest due on school
                                funds; recommending that no further legislation be had on the
                                subject. The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. CONNER, from the same committee, returned Mr. Green's bill (202),
                                recommending its passage. The bill was ordered engrossed.
                            Mr. BENNETT, from the same committee, returned Mr. Conley's bill
                                (176), recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. MURRAY, from the same committee, returned Mr. Hill's bill (155),
                                recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. HEFFREN, from the same committee, returned his bill (165),
                                recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. BLAIR, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
                                returned the bill (H. R. 48) to amend the 6th section of an act to
                                provide for the organization of County Boards, &c., approved
                                June 17, 1852, recommending its passage.
                            On motion by Mr. BEESON, the bill was read the third time and finally
                                passed the Senate yeas 41, nays 0.
                            Mr. WILSON, from the committee on the State Library, returned Mr.
                                Gooding'sbill (138), recommending its passage. The bill was ordered
                                to be engrossed.
                            Mr. SLACK, from a select committee, returned Mr. Cobb's bill (151),
                                with an amendment recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to
                                be engrossed.
                            Mr. GOODING, by leave, from the committee on the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned the bill (H. R. 29), to license, regulate and restrain the
                                sale of spirituous liquors, recommending its passage.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to strike out all in the first section that refers to
                                vinous and malt liquors.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved to lay on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to, by yeas 20, nays 19, as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Cooper, Cravens, Culver, Green, Hendry,
                                            Hill, Kinley, McLean, March, Murray, Odell, Stevens,
                                            Thompson, Turner wagner and Wilson - 20.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Brown, Carnahan, Cobb,
                                            Conley, Fisk, Gooding, Hamilton, Hargrove, Heffren,
                                            Johnston, Line, Lomax, McClure, Miller, O'Brien, Slack,
                                            Tarkington, Wallace and Williams - 19.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. HENDRY, a call of the Senate was had.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON moved a substitute, which strikes out from the enacting
                                clause and inserts an entire new bill.
                            The substitute was read, when - 
                            Mr. GOODING rose to a personal explanation.
                            The PRESIDENT pro tempore interrupted him by saying
                                that there was a special order for this hour [10 o'clock], being the
                                consideration of the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business' bill (145), to provide for a more uniform
                                mode of doing: township business.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to postpone the special order.
                            The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The Senate will decide
                                whether the Senator shall rise to a privileged question.
                            The question was submitted to the Senate by the Chair, and the Senate
                                decided upon a division - affirmative 15, negative 12 - that Mr.
                                Gooding was in order, and should have leave to proceed.
                            Mr. GOODING. Mr. President: I find published in the >Sentinel of this morning an account of a very
                                disagreable difficulty that occurred a few days since between the
                                Senator from Washington [Mr. Heffren] and myself, in which that
                                Senator is reported to have said some things that I do not think he
                                said, and other things which he ought not to have said.
                            Mr. WAGNER, [interrupting.] Mr. President: Must these things continue
                                the whole entire time of this session? I protest against it.
                            Mr. GOODING. No sir. It will end now.
                            Mr. HEFFREN. It may, and it may not. It may, and it may not.
                            Mr. MARCH. I don't suppose it's any body's business whether it closes
                                now or not.
                            Mr. WAGNER. I object to pressing these matters on the time of the
                                Senate.
                            Mr. GOODING. If I have permission I will read what the Senator from
                                Washington is reported to have said. It is as follows:"
                            
                                I have heretofore time and
                                        again branded that Senator as a liar and a coward; I have
                                    denounced him upon this floor as a rascal, a lying,
                                        croaking villain, and he has not had manliness enough
                                    to resist it. He cannot now force me to be the assailant by any
                                    such language as he is now using, or can use. I will not notice
                                    one so lost to all honor as to coolly and calmly and cowardly pocket insults in the manner he does. He is a
                                        cowardly dog."
                            
                            This, Mr. President, is the language he is reported as having used. I
                                now ask that Senator if he used that language?
                            Mr. HEFFREN. I repeat every word that is there that you have read. I
                                know he has a pistol, Mr. President, I have seen him march in here
                                with it; but I am not to be cowed - [cries of "order," "order."]
                            Mr. GOODING. I say if he makes these statements and indorses them as
                                true, I hurl - 
                            [Hereupon Mr. Heffren, who had previously placed himself near to Mr.
                                Gooding, seemed to strike at him violently with his hand; and the
                                two engaged, oversetting chairs and disturbing the table of this
                                Reporter. Senators then immediately interfered, together with
                                parties outside.

                            
                            While Mr. Heffren was punishing one of the interfering parties, a
                                brother of M . Gooding, as it has been represented, advanced and
                                gave him a full blow with a cane on the back of his head, and then
                                retreated from the chamber.]
                            Pending these things - 
                            The PRESIDENT, pro tempore prorogued the session
                                till 2 o'clock.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. TURNER offered the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That no Senator shall be
                                            permitted, while in the Senate Chamber, or going to or
                                            returning from the same, to carry on or about his person
                                            any dirk, pistol, or any other deadly weapon, and any
                                            member violating this rule shall, on motion, be expelled
                                            from this Senate.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Senator Heffren and Senator Gooding apologized to the Senate for
                                their breach of decorum.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to lay the resolution on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 30, nays 9.
                            Mr. STEVENS offered the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS, Hon. Horace Heffren, a
                                            Senator from the county of Washington, and Hon. D. S.
                                            Gooding, a Senator from the counties of Hancock and
                                            Shelby, did, this forenoon, while the Senate was in
                                            regular session, greatly to the annoyance, peace and
                                            quiet of the Senate, and to the honor and dignity of the
                                            State, engage in a personal combat, contrary to the laws
                                            of the State of Indiana; and, whereas, believing this
                                            Senate is bound to maintain honor and dignity in its
                                            organization, therefore
                                        Resolved, That a committee of five be
                                            appointed to investigate the matter of difficulty
                                            between the honorable Senators named in the preamble,
                                            and report to this Senate what course is necessary to
                                            take to vindicate the honor and dignity of the Senate.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. Slack opposed and Mr. Murray favored the adoption of the
                                resolution.
                            Mr. Murray offered the following as a substitute:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS, a rencounter occurred this
                                            morning, on the floor of the Senate, between the Hons.
                                            Horace Heffren and David S. Gooding, members of the
                                            Senate, disgraceful to the Senate, and to its great
                                            disturbance, therefore
                                        Resolved, That a select committee of
                                            five be appointed by the Senate to investigate the facts
                                            of the case, and report to the Senate what action is
                                            necessary and proper, and whether others interfered and
                                            participated, not members of the Senate, and what action
                                            is necessary so far as they are concerned, and that said
                                            committee have power to send for persons and papers, and
                                            if deemed necessary, employ a clerk. 
                                    
                                
                            
                             The resolution was debated by Senators March, Wallace, Hamilton,
                                Greene, Bennett, Tarkington, Wagner and Robinson.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to lay the whole subject on the table.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 7, nays 36.
                            Mr. STEVENS could see but little distinction between the original
                                resolution and the substitute.
                            He therefore accepted of the substitute.
                            The resolution was then adopted, and the following Senators were
                                designated by the Senate as the committee, viz: Senators Wallace,
                                Stevens, Murray, Rice and Tarkington.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, by consent, offered the following, which was
                                adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the use of the Senate
                                            Chamber be given this evening to citizens of the State
                                            who desire to revive the Indiana Historical Society
                                            established in the year 1830.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. HARGROVE offered the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Treasurer of State be
                                            directed to report to the Senate at his earliest
                                            convenience the amount of moneys received into the State
                                            Treasury from the General Government for sales of swamp
                                            lands erroneously sold by the Government; by whom paid
                                            in; the time of payment; if disbursed, the objects of
                                            such disbursement and if known, the amount of such sales
                                            remaining due from the General Government. 
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. SLACK offered the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the Auditor of State is
                                            required to communicate to this Senate the state of the
                                            accounts between the State of Indiana and Governor
                                            Wright; also, between the State and Elijah Newland, and
                                            John P.Dunn, late Treasurer and Auditor of State, as to
                                            the amount of money which came into their hands,
                                            belonging to the Swamp Land Fund, and the disposition
                                            made thereof, and what amount if any, is yet due from
                                            either of said officers.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. WALLACE offered the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That the President of the
                                            Senate be requested to submit to the Senate any
                                            communication he may have from the General Land Office,
                                            relative to the receipts and expenditures of funds due
                                            the State, arising from the Swamp Lands.
                                    
                                
                            
                            The Committee on County and Township Business'
                                bill (145) for a more uniform mode of doing township business coming
                                up, the question being on a motion of the Senator from Washington,
                                to reconsider the vote by which the Senate refused to adopt the
                                substitute for the bill proposed by the Senator from Union - 
                            Mr. HEFFREN withdrew his motion.
                            Mr. SLACK renewed it.
                            Mr. HEFFRFN moved to lay the motion on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 25, nays 23.
                            Mr. WALLACE moved to strike out all that part of the bill which gives
                                Trustees the powers of a Justice of the Peace.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the bill was read the third time.
                            Mr. LINE moved to recommit so as to give the Trustee power to vacate
                                and lay out roads and highways in the townships according to the
                                provisions of law in that case made and provided.
                            Mr. WALLACE moved to lay the motion on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 31, nays 16.
                            Mr. GREEN moved that the provision which requires the trustee to keep
                                an office open for the transaction of township business, be stricken
                                out.
                            There being objection made the motion was ruled out of order.
                            Mr. BENNETT moved to recommit with instructions to take away from the
                                trustee the duty of acting as treasurer, and that the money shall be
                                disbursed by the County Treasurer upon the order of the trustee.
                            On motion by Mr. CONLEY, the motion to recommit was laid on the
                                table.
                            The bill was then finally passed the Senate by yeas 30, nays 18.

                            
                                TEMPERANCE BILL.
                                The temperance bill (H. R. 29) coming up, the question being on
                                    the adoption of a substitute proposed by the Senator from Putnam
                                    [Mr. Johnston.]
                                Mr. BENNETT moved to lay the substitute on the table.
                                The motion was agreed to - yeas 28, nays 13.
                                Mr. BENNETT moved to amend by striking out the words, "or to any
                                    female ;" also, to strike out $20 and insert $50.
                                
                                Mr. MURRAY hoped the bill would be put on its passage. He moved
                                    to lay the amendments on the table.
                                The motion was rejected - yeas 16, nays 27.
                                And then the Senate adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                        
                            
                                TUESDAY, February 15, 1859.
                            
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            By Mr. MURRAY: of Francis Henry and others, citizens of Lagrange
                                county, against the repeal of the horse thief detecting law, and
                                presenting claims for money expended. &c., which was referred to
                                the Committee on Claims.
                            By the SPEAKER: the claim of C. C. Campbell of Indianapolis, which
                                was referred to the Committee on Claims.
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD - Judiciary - returning Mr.
                                Whetzel's bill (98), to amend the supervisor's act of June 18, 1852,
                                with the expression of opinion that the bill is unconstitutional and
                                inexpedient, and recommending indefinite postponement.
                            Also - returning the bill (S. 8), to amend the first section of the
                                act concerning the alienation of real estate, &c., stating that
                                the bill proposes to amend the law so that all aliens - Africans
                                included - shall have the right to purchase, sell or take by descent
                                any real property in this State, and they recommended its indefinite
                                postponement.
                            These reports were concurred in.
                            He also returned Mr. Hunter's bill (125), for the protection of
                                railroad tracks, inserting - 
                            SEC. 3. Any person who shall wilfully or
                                negligently leave upon any railroad track anything to endanger the
                                train, shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5, nor more
                                than $1,000, to which may be added imprisonment not exceeding six
                                months.
                            The amendment was adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            By Mr. TURPIE - Judiciary - returning Mr. Early's
                                bill (72), to amend sections 1 and 2 of the act of March 1, 1853,
                                providing compensation for animals killed by railroad cars, with an
                                amendment striking out the words, "at any one time."
                            On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, the bill and amendment were referred to Mr.
                                Edwards and 4 others.
                        
                        
                            GAME LAW.
                            By Mr. DAVIS - Judiciary - returning Mr. Hamilton
                                of Boone's bill (64), amending, and Mr. Turpie's bill (18),
                                repealing the game law, with sundry petitions on that subject,
                                recommending that No. 64 and the petitions be laid on the table, and
                                that No. 18 be amended by substitute.
                            Mr. TURPIE demanded the yeas and nays on concurrence.
                            Mr. DAVIS stated the effect of the amendment of the game law
                                proposed. It is provided that any man may kill game at any time on
                                his own premises; it repeals the clause giving half to the informer,
                                and extends the time of general killing from the 1st of January till
                                the 15th day of February.
                            Mr. TURPIE and Mr. BOYD were in favor of repealing the game law, but
                                should vote for the report, as perhaps the best they could get
                            The vote on concurrence stood - yeas 36, nays 46.
                            So the House refused to concur; and the question recurred on the
                                engrossment of the original bill, No. 18, (Mr. Turpie's) to repeal
                                the game law of February 26,1857.
                            Mr. TURPIE moved, that Mr. Hamilton of Boone's bill be laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone. The House has just refused to lay the bill on
                                the table, in refusing to concur in the report.
                            Mr. DAVIS moved recommitment, ineffectually.
                            The question recurring on the engrossment of No. 18 - 
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY moved its indefinite postponement - the vote resulting,
                                yeas 46, nays 43 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Baird, Black,
                                            Branham, Brotherton, Clark, Claypool, Clayton, Colgrove,
                                            Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Davis, Dougherty, Durham,
                                            Edwards, Fordyce, Gregory, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush,
                                            Hamilton of Wayne, Harrison, Jeffries, Johnston, Keefer,
                                            Lawhead, Major, Mansfield, Mellett, Merrifield, Miller,
                                            Murray, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren,
                                            Robinson, Scott, Sherman, Smith of Miami, Snyder,
                                            Stanfield, Stiles, Tebbs, Thompson of Elkhart, Treadway,
                                            Waterman and Whiteman - 46.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Blythe, Bowman, Boyd,
                                            Boxley, Carr, Cavins, Clements, Collier, Devol, Early,
                                            Eastham, Firestone, Gifford, Hamilton of Boone, Harnev,
                                            Hartley, Hunter, Jones, Jordan, Kelly, Kempf, Knowlton,
                                            Lewis, McLain, Massey, Martin, Nelson, Newton, Prosser,
                                            Ritter, Row, Rynerson, Shields, Shockley, Shull, Smith
                                            of Perry, Stanley, Summers, Turpie, Usrey, Wheeler,
                                            Whetzel, Wildman and Wood - 43.
                                    
                                
                            
                             So the bill was postponed.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY moved to reconsider this vote - and that motion was
                                laid on the table, by yeas 43, nays 46.
                            The bill No 64, to prevent the killing, &c. saving the right of
                                farmers on their own premises, and repealing the compensation of
                                inlormers, &c., was then ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. COLGROVE, from the Judiciary Committee
                                returned Mr. Sherman's bill (206), to amend the 36th section of the
                                misdemeanor act with an amendment, inserting appropriately the
                                words, "with intent to produce abortion;"
                            Which was adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. BAIRD, from same committee, returned Mr. Turpie's bill (177) to
                                amend section 2 of the act for the relocation of county seats, the
                                erection of public buildings, &c., recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. PARRETT, from same committee, returned Mr. Hunter's bill (207) to
                                provide for empanneling jurors in civil and criminal cases in the
                                Circuit and Common Pleas Courts, with a recommendation that the same
                                be laid on the table.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. MELLETT, from the Committee on Banks, returned
                                his bill (248) supplemental to the general banking law, and
                                authorizing the Auditor and Treasurer of State to surrender
                                securities deposited in certain cases, recommending passage.
                            

                        
                        
                             MONEY FOR THE COMMON SCHOOLS.
                             The SPEAKER (Mr. Edwards in the Chair) announced the special order
                                for 10 o'clock, viz: the consideration of Mr. Waterman's amended
                                school bill, No. 107, and Mr. Colgrove's bill (119) for the
                                distribution of the Sinking Fund.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD said, the bill 107 was but a single proposition, and it
                                ought to have precedence. It could pass without affecting No.
                                119.
                            Mr. COLGROVE proposed to amend the motion, that No. 119 have
                                precedence, as embracing more matter. The bill No. 107 contemplates
                                merely the distribution of the surplus of interest.
                            The bill No. 107 was taken up.
                            Mr. COLGROVE moved to lay it on the table, but gave way for - 
                            Mr. HARNEY, who desired a direct vote on the bill.
                            Mr. COLGROVE. No man felt a deeper interest than himself in this
                                subject. The bill No. 119, embraced the same provision for
                                distribution contained in No. 107. He objected to the mode of
                                distribution in No. 107. His bill went further, declaring that the
                                Sinking Fund itself, after 1866, should be distributed as the
                                Congressionol Fund is now. On this there were conflicting views. He
                                wanted this feature considered, and if rejected, he would
                                immediately help to pass the other bill, with a slight amendment
                                with regard to the mode of distribution of the interest.
                            Mr. BOYD considered that bill No. 107 ought to pass. It was
                                unquestionably a compliance with the spirit of the law. We need this
                                surplus of interest, and if we may use it he saw no good reason for
                                gentlemen to vote against it.
                            The SPEAKER. The bill No. 107, he now perceived, was on the third
                                reading.
                            Mr. COLGROVE moved to lay it on the table for the present the vote
                                resulting - yeas 36, nays 41.
                            So the bill was not laid on the table.
                            Mr. COLGROVE. His bill prescribed that from and after January, 1866,
                                that portion of the Sinking Fund which shall remain after the
                                outstanding bank bonds and incidental expenses are paid, shall be
                                distributed among the several counties. The Board shall hereafter
                                make loans, so that the time of payment shall not extend beyond
                                February, 1866, and then the principal of this fund wras to be
                                distributed in money among the several counties pro
                                    rata, according to the number of children listed in the
                                report of the Superintendent of Common Schools for the year 1865.
                                Both bills divide the balance of interest; their bill providing that
                                the money shall be first paid into the State Treasury, whilst his
                                bill pre scribed that it should be distributed immediately from the
                                treasury of the Sinking Fund.
                            Mr. BOYD was opposed to the gentleman's manner of distributing the
                                principal of the fund. He was in favor of investing this principal
                                in the bonds of the State, as recommended by Governor Wright. He
                                knows of others, also, who were ID favor of the distribution of the
                                interest, and opposed to the distribution of the principal,
                                &c.
                            Mr. COLGROVE proposed to recommit the bill, with instructions to
                                report an amendment for making said division pro
                                    rata, according to the number of common school children
                                listed, as an pears from the report of the Superintendent of Common
                                Schools, &c.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD. The school money had been detained in the State
                                Treasury. That was a fact, and we ought to guard against it. But not
                                in respect to one particular fund. Some general law ought to be
                                passed securing the fund it all respects, which an amendment to this
                                item alone would not do.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, was in favor of the principle of both bills - of
                                distributing the surplus of interest in the meantime - insisting
                                upon the distribution pro rata, &c.
                            Mr. HARNEY moved to lay the motion and instructions on the table -
                                the vote resulting - yeas 22, nays 56.
                            Mr. ROBINSON proposed to substitute instructions as follows:
                            Recommit to the Committee on Education with the
                                following instructions:
                            Amend the bill so as to require the Commissioners of the Sinking Fund
                                to set apart on their books one million of dollars, the interest of
                                which shall be applied to the payment of interest on the outstanding
                                bank bonds and the payment of current expenses and the balance of
                                interest on the amount so set apart, if any, together with any part
                                of principal of the Fund that may be paid in shall be applied to the
                                purchase of the outstanding bank bonds and the interest on the
                                balance of the Fund not so set apart shall be applied to the support
                                of Common Schools and distributed as the fund now raised by taxation
                                is now or shall hereafter be distributed.
                            Mr. ROBINSON explained his instructions.
                            Mr. COLGROVE demanded a division of the question - and the bill was
                                first ordered to be re committed with Mr. Colgrove's
                                instructions
                            And then, Mr. Robinson's instructions were laid on the table.
                            The next question being on the engrossment of Mr. Colgrove's bill,
                                No. 119 - 
                            Mr. HARNEY moved to amend, by striking out all except the enacting
                                clause, and sections 9, 10, and 11 - leaving out all that part
                                relative to the distribution of the principal.
                            Mr. MURRAY defended the bill.
                            Mr. MARTIN, at first was inclined to support the bill, but was
                                satisfied it was alluring and deceptive. There was another system
                                for the disposition of this fund which was preferable, &c. He
                                spoke at length in opposition.
                            Mr. COLGROVE made a general speech in favor of the principle, upon
                                which his bill is founded, defending it from objections, &c.
                            Mr. SCOTT. Would the several counties be confined in the interest
                                they receive, to the interest on the amount so proposed to be
                                divided to them?
                            Mr. MURRAY. He understood that the interest would continue to be
                                divided, pro rata, without regard to the proposed
                                distribution of the principal of this fund.
                            Mr. BOYD. The gentleman from Randolph had now confessed that he was
                                opposed to this distribution of interest till 1866. He gave way
                                without concluding.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House the annual report of John M. Lord,
                                Agent of State, which was referred to the Committee on Ways
                                    and Means.
                        
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            THE FINANCES OF THE STATE.
                             The SPEAKER announced the special order,viz: The consideration of
                                the bills Nos. 192,193, 194, 195, reported from the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means. 
                            The rest having passed to the engrossment - 
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, it was ordered that the bill (195), to
                                provide a Treasury system for the State of Indiana, for the manner
                                of receiving, holding and disbursing the public moneys of the State,
                                (and the several counties,) and for the safe keeping of public
                                moneys, be taken up and considered by sections.
                            Mr. STANFIELD proposed to add to the second section:
                            Provided, however, that the Board doing county business may, instead
                                of procuring such vault, require the county Treasurer to deposit the
                                county funds with such bank as pay be designated by said Board.
                            Mr. MILLER moved to strike out the second section.
                            The SPEAKER could not entertain that as an amendment to the
                                amendment.
                            Mr. STANFIELD had offered this amendment to save expense of vaults,
                                which in some cases, might operate as an advertisement to burglars.
                                It was presumed that the County Commissioners knew what would be a
                                safe custody for the public funds, &c.
                            Mr. RITTER proposed to add " or individuals," after the word
                                "bank."
                            Which, on motion by Mr. MURRAY, was laid on the table.
                            Mr. MILLER moved to lay Mr. Stanfield's amendment on the table. The
                                vote resulting - yeas 55, nays 23; so the amendment was laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. ROBINSON moved a reconsideration of this vote; and this motion,
                                on the motion of Mr. Clements, was laid on the table.
                            Mr. STANFIELD now proposed to amend, as follows:
                            Provided, That the board doing county business
                                shall require the County Treasurer to deposit the county funds in
                                some safe place, until such county board shall see fit to procure
                                such vault.
                            Mr. ROBINSON proposed to add:
                            Said money to be deposited on such terms as to interest, as said
                                officer shall agree upon - payable on call - and said loan to be
                                secured in double the amount loaned.
                            The SPEAKER ruled this out of order, because no interest was
                                contemplated.
                            On motion by Mr. KEEFER, the amendment was laid on the table.
                            Mr. MILLER now moved to strike out the second section, providing
                                county vaults.
                            Mr. HARNEY. That would be to strike o t the County Treasury system.
                                The bill would be complete without it.
                            Mr. MILLER. That was what he desired. The security in the case of the
                                County Treasurer was ample. No man having to give so heavy a bond as
                                the Treasurer should be interfered with in this way, &c. He
                                objected to the espoinage on the County Treasurer, and other
                                provisions in this part of the bill. There were few County Treasury
                                defalcations; and he looked at the expense of these county
                                vaults.
                            Mr. BOYD. These vaults and safes would cost the State of Indiana
                                $273,000 - an expenditure which would be entirely useless in most of
                                the counties. He preferred something like the amendment of Mr.
                                Stanfield.
                            The vote on striking out resulted - yeas 55, nays 33: so the section
                                was stricken out.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY proposed to amend the 3d section, by substituting a
                                provision requiring an increasing per centum of the revenue, to be
                                paid in gold or silver coin, until, in 1863, the entire revenue and
                                financial receipts and disbursements of the State shall be in gold
                                and silver coin.
                            Mr. KEEFER proposed to amend the amendment, by adding to this
                                effect:
                            Provided, also, That the Treasurer of State shall,
                                whenever in his opinion the interests of the State demand it,
                                convert the bank notes in the treasury into gold and silver, by
                                presenting them to the banks and demanding coin.
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, these were laid on the table.
                            Mr. PROSSER proposed to strike out from the 3d section these
                                words:
                            
                                "Or in the notes of specie-paying banks,
                                    regularly organized under the banking laws of this State."
                            
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY supported, and Mr. Hunter opposed the amendment.
                            Mr. ROBINSON proposed to strike out only the words: "Regularly
                                organized under the banking laws of this State."
                            Mr. PROSSER moved to lay Mr. Robinson's amendment on the table, but
                                withdrew for - 
                            Mr. DAVIS. He liked the feature of these bills looking to the
                                security of the public funds, but they went a little too far. Any
                                money the laboring poor received for their toil was good enough for
                                the financial purposes of the State. The last amendment proposed the
                                range of the specie-paying banks of the country. He deprecated
                                distinction as to currency between the public officers, and those
                                who created them; and he gave examples such as the general soundness
                                of Kentucky currency, circulating very freely in his portion of the
                                State, &c.
                            Mr. HARNEY. It was not an issue here between gold and rags, but
                                between places of deposits - whether it should be the treasurer's
                                vault, or in scattered certificates of deposit. He showed the
                                propriety of receiving the notes of banks organized under the
                                banking laws of the State. We have no control of banks outside of
                                the State, &c.
                            Mr. MURRAY considered the argument for taking only the paper
                                authorized by the laws of the State, and gave his opinion that no
                                distinction should be made between specie-paying banks, within or
                                without the State.
                            Mr. GIFFORD thought the bill was all that should be demanded now, in
                                this matter.
                            Mr. KEEFER said we knew the condition of our own banks better than
                                that of the banks of New England. The bank men were afraid of the
                                19th section, authorizing the Treasurer to draw specie or exchange
                                on New York for the semi-annual interest on the State debt.
                            Mr. TURPIE submitted his reflections on the whole subject - arguing
                                from various considerations that there was no necessity for the
                                enactment of this batch of bills. He alleged that the financial
                                system of Indiana had not, in all the State's history, been
                                subjected to as great losses 
                                as had been sustained within a few years back by our neighboring
                                States - Ohio, Illinois and Kentucky - under the system of checks,
                                which gentlemen desired by these bills to foist upon the State of
                                Indiana. He objected to the bill, because the State could not
                                authorize any currency beside hard money for public receipts and
                                disbursements; because, by it, the County Commissioners may
                                prescribe what currency shall be receivable for revenue. The
                                Legislature could not delegate such a power, either to the officers
                                of the State or of the county. They could not delegate a power not
                                possessed by themselves. The State and the Bank, like the State and
                                the Church, were too nearly related to be married together; and yet
                                this bill proposed to effect this by an indirection - by authorizing
                                the public officers to prescribe what bank currency shall be
                                receivable and payable for the public revenues. It would made the
                                banks reckless. The banks and the brokers would rejoice together
                                upon its passage. The bill was over fraught with evil results,
                                &c. He spoke at length.
                            Mr. HARNEY replied. The Ohio defalcation to which the gentleman had
                                referred, took place before the passage of their present financial
                                system. The Treasurer of State had heretofore determined what
                                currency he would take. And if the Treasurer, why not the
                                Legislature? At present, the revenues are put into the bank, for
                                bankers to bank on and make gain; and the people were to make good
                                all the losses. Certainly it was time for reform in this,
                                &c.
                            Mr. TURPIE spoke again This bill would lock up annually at least
                                $800,000 of the bank currency of the State. It would have a tendency
                                to inflate the currency; to induce unhealthy speculations. He
                                desired that the business of the Bank ot the State should be well
                                conducted; but not that the Legislation of the State should bend
                                unduly to favor it.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY was disposed to meet the bill in the spirit of
                                compromise, and in this spirit he had submitted his amendment for a
                                gradual approach to a system of receiving and disbursing the public
                                revenues in hard money. But this, with the amendment of the
                                gentleman from Johnson, were voted down by a decided majority He
                                differed with she gentleman from Johnson, that the banks feared this
                                bill. No better bill could be prepared to please the money lords ot
                                the State. He would not nurse these banks by the passage of this
                                bill, but rather legislate unfavorably to them. He sketched what he
                                understood to be an independent treasury.
                            Mr. SMITH, of Perry, replied to Mr. Turpie. He rehearsed the steps of
                                the investigation of the State officers, by way of showing the
                                reason why these bills were not reported at an earlier date. As to
                                its result, it was the first statement of the Treasurer's office
                                that could be understood. It showed a loss to the State of $107,000.
                                He made no charge against the administration of the State Treasurer,
                                but that the system of book keeping was wrong. He also considered
                                the system of accounts in the Auditor's office, and the system of
                                Governor's and Secretary's perquisites, demanding the reforms
                                proposed in these bills These investigations he understood to bethe
                                peculiar duty of the Committee on Ways and Means.
                                The system proposed in these bills was copied principally from Ohio.
                                It was forced upon that State by the Breslin and Gibson frauds; and
                                it was proposed to correct similar evils here, though, of course,
                                far less in magnitude and amount. When he had concluded - 
                            The House, at five o'clock, adjourned. 

                        
                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, February 16, 1859. 
                        
                         The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate the
                            report of the Agent of State for the year ending October 31,1858.
                        Mr. LINE presented a memorial from a meeting held in the Senate Chamber
                            last evening for the re-organization of the Indiana Historical Society,
                            asking an appropriation from the State Treasury to aid the society in
                            procuring archives, &c., which was referred to Senators Line,
                            Hamilton, and Steele.
                        Mr. MARCH, from the Finance Committee, returned Mr.
                            Bennett's interest bill (5), with an amendment, recommending its
                            passage.
                        Mr. SLACK desired to strike out of that bill all that refers to ten per
                            cent, interest.
                        Mr. BENNETT said the original bill raised the rate of interest to ten per
                            cent., but he believed such a bill could not pass the House, and he was
                            willing to take the amendment proposed by the committee, which provides
                            that where a man will voluntarily pay ten per cent., it may be received
                            on a written contract, but if it be taken into the courts, only six
                            percent, can be recovered. He had introduced this bill because he
                            believed it a matter of good policy, demanded by the wants of the
                            people, and he was sure his constituents were in favor of the change
                            proposed in the bill. He said it was unneccessary to discuss the
                            question in detail, as it had already been exhausted. He had hoped the
                            bill would pass as originally introduced, but he was satisfied from the
                            test votes given in the House, and from expressions of Senators that the
                            bill could not pass in that shape. He was anxious for change, and would
                            accept of the amendments of the Finance Committee as a compromise,
                            believing that it would prove beneficial to the people. He hoped
                            Senators would yield their opposition and let the bill pass.
                        Mr. WILLIAMS moved to indefinitely postpone the bill and report.
                        Mr. MILLER favored the bill, and hoped would not be indefinitely
                            postponed.
                        Mr. HEFFREN desired to see the report disposed of by postponement.
                        Mr. WILLIAMS withdrew his motion.
                        Mr. TARKINGTON opposed the ten per cent. interest.
                        Mr. HAMILTON was not particular whether the bill passes or not, though he
                            would vote for it.
                        Mr. ANTHONY was disposed to doubt whether it was policy to pass this bill
                            or not. He moved to postpone it till Friday next, at 10 o'clock. 
                        Mr. BENNETT opposed the postponement.
                        Mr. RICE spoke in opposition to the bill and amendment, taking ground
                            against any change in our present interest law. He contended the
                            amendment proposed, although modifying to  some extent the provision of the bill,
                            was, nevertheless, virtually a ten per cent. law. He
                            was opposed to an unrestricted commerce in money. Said that every
                            government should fix some standard of value upon money, and that the
                            present was fair and just, and as high as the interest of the great mass
                            of the people would bear. The masses of the people, he said, were not
                            asking for the passage of such a law - they unfortunately were debtors -
                            but that the law was clamored for by certain classes, viz: The
                            merchants, the bankers, the brokers, shavers, money-lenders and Shylocks
                            generally. They were the classes who were to be benefitted by an
                            increase of the rate of interest, and not the great body of the people.
                            He alluded to the laws of Illinois, Ohio and Wisconsin allowing ten per
                            cent., and insisted that instead of those laws operating beneficially
                            for the people of those States, they had worked injuriously, and that in
                            the two latter States their unconditional repeal had been recommended by
                            Governors Chase and Randall, and that in Illinois the law had been
                            modified so as to allow ten per cent, only on money
                            loaned. That instead of general financial prosperity having been
                            consequent upon the passage of those laws, in those States, their repeal
                            was now demanded, upon the ground that they embarrassed the enterprise and impoverished
                            the industry of the country; and that this was not
                            theory merely, but the result of practical experience
                            in those States, as given by the chief Executive officers of those
                            States. Upon these grounds, and in view of the vast indebtedness of the
                            country, he appealed to Senators to pause and reflect before passing a
                            law, the immediate effect of which would be to convert this vast
                            indebtedness into a ten per cent, loan, and the more remote effect he
                            feared would be the general bankruptcy of the people.
                        Mr. MURRAY moved to indefinitely postpone the whole matter.
                        The motion was rejected by yeas 15, nays 31 - as follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Bobbs, Carnahan,
                                        Fisk, Hargrove, Heffren, Hendry, Lomax, McClure, McLean,
                                        Murray, Rice, Tarkington, Wallace and Williams. - 15. 
                                    NAYS - Messrs, Beeson, Bennett, Blair,
                                        Brown, Cobb, Conley, Conner, Cooper, Craven of Madison,
                                        Culver, Gooding, Green, Hamilton, Hill, Johnston, Jones,
                                        Kinley, Line, March, Miller, O'Brien, Odell, Robinson,
                                        Shoemaker, Slack, Steele, Stevens, Thompson, Turner, Wagner,
                                        Willson - 31. 
                                
                            
                        
                        Mr. BENNETT, when his name was called, said he should vote against the
                            postponement of this bill because he believed its provisions were
                            demanded by his constituents.
                        Mr. BOBBS, in explanation, would rather have seen this bill disposed of
                            in some other way, but would vote "aye."
                        Mr. CARNAHAN, in explanation, conceived these provisions were for the
                            advantage of the wealthy and the expense of the poor; and that the
                            people of the State were not calling for this measure.
                        Mr. CONNER, in explanation, did not by his vote propose to reflect his
                            own private sentiments, but what he believed to, be the wishes of his
                            constituents: for he had more confidence in their opinions than in his
                            own.
                        Mr. CULVER, in explanation, thought the agricultural portion of community
                            demanded such a law, and should vote "nay."
                        Mr. GOODING, in explanation, declared that upon the final passage of the
                            bill he should vote against it, but as the Senator from Delaware, (Mr.
                            March), for whose opinions he had the highest respect, and perhaps other
                            Senators desired to speak, he should vote now against the indefinite
                            postponement.
                        Mr. LINE, in explanation, remarked that his constituents required a
                            change in this interest law: and consequently he should vote "no."
                        Mr. McLEAN, in explanation, said the House of Representatives by a vote
                            of 53 to 26, indefinitely postponed a similar bill, and he believed
                            therefore the passage of this bill by the Senate would have no
                            effect.
                        Mr. MARCH, in explanation, was in favor of the bill as amended, but would
                            not vote for the original proposition.
                        Mr. MURRAY, in explanation, said in his district the people did not ask
                            for such a provision as is contained in this bill.
                        Mr. SLACK, in explanation, said he should vote "no," for the
                            accommodation of the Senator from Delaware.
                        Mr. STEELE, in explanation, said that this was a compromise between the
                            two parties on the committee. A majority of the committee favoring this,
                            as he best that could be done, he thought those opposing the amendment
                            mistook the effect that it would have, as his opinion was, that it would
                            only legalize what was the custom in Indiana, as loans were made in his
                            part ot the State, to remove the products, at even a higher rate than 10
                            per cent. He denied that there was any such thing as 6 per cent, money
                            in the State now. He would say to the Senator from Fountain, that so far
                            as the opinions of Governor Chase were concerned, he had never heard of
                            him being a great financier before; his opinion was that the finances of
                            Ohio, under his administration, were in as much trouble as any other
                            State of the Union. As to the Senator from Fountain charging that
                            bankers and brokers only, called for a law of this kind that the masses
                            did not call for it he could say to that Senator, that the hundreds of
                            thousands of dollars that were to day invested in Fountain as well as
                            Parke and Vermillion, in the pork, beef, wheat and other products, and
                            is now in transit, is borrowed at even a higher rate than 10 per cent;
                            then where would produce dealers get money? And if produce dealers could
                            not get money, the consequence would be that that the masses could not
                            sell for anything; as he denied again, that you could borrow in
                            Fountain, or any other county in the West, any considerable amount of
                            money at 6 per cent., as there is no such money in the country. He
                            denied also that the States around Indiana are abandoning the law of 10
                            per cent. Every State touching Indiana, has a law of the kind this
                            amendment proposes. By the Kentucky law, which is only binding by
                            consent of parties, if suit is brought only 6 per cent, can be collected
                            - if not, over ten is taken; the lender is not liable to punishment, so
                            it gives individuals the same chance banks take, by loaning on produce
                            bills. Banks loan at 6 per cent., but loan exclusively on bills - in
                            this way they have the exchange, which makes it amount to 10 per
                            cent.
                        
                        Mr. WALLACE, in explanation, said if he voted for the postponement it
                            would favor money lenders, if against, it would favor the
                            money-borrowers; and as the majority ought to rule, and the
                            money-borrowers were in the majority as three to one, he should vote
                            "no."
                        [A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of the
                            bill (H. R. 38) fixing the time of holding Circuit Courts in the 9th
                            Judicial Circuit; also the bill (H R. 12) to prevent the issuing and
                            circulation of unauthorized paper currency.]
                        Mr. Anthony's motion to postpone till Friday was rejected.
                        Mr. Wallace's bill (2), [described on page 20 of these Reports,] coining
                            up, the question being on the adoption of Mr. MARCH'S motion to strike
                            out the 4th section - 
                        On motion of Mr. GOODING, the previous question was ordered, and under
                            its operation the amendment was rejected.
                        The bill was then ordered to be engrossed.
                        The Senate proceeded to the consideration of the following bills on their
                            third reading:
                        Mr. McLean's (16), to amend section 1 of an act regulating the vending of
                            foreign merchandize, approved March 7, 1857, concerning license for
                            public shows, &c., and for the encouragement of agriculture.
                        On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, by unanimous consent, the bill was amended so
                            as to make the maximum for ferry license $500 instead of $50.
                        The bill was then finally passed the Senate by yeas 37, nays 5.
                        Mr. Hamilton's bill (18), on his motion was laid on the tablea similar
                            one having already passed.
                        Mr. Green's (19), providing for an enumeration to be made of white
                            inhabitants over 21 years of age in 1860, and every five years
                            thereafter.
                        The bill was passed - yeas 45, nays 0.
                        Mr. Studabaker's (23), fixing the time of holding the Court of Common
                            Pleas in Allen and Adams counties, and repealing all laws in conflict
                            therewith.
                        On motion by Mr. CONNER, the bill was laid on the table for the
                            present.
                        Mr. Turner's (24), to incorporate the "International University."
                        On motion by Mr. BLAIR, the bill was laid on the table.
                        Mr. Anthony's (26), to amend section 9 of an act to exempt property from
                            sale in certain cases, approved February 17, 1852.
                        Mr. BOBBS and Mr. MARCH objected to the passage of the bill.
                        Mr. MURRAY was in favor of its passage.
                        Mr. ANTHONY said the law as it now stands was for the purpose of enabling
                            poor persons to preserve from ravacious creditors necessary articles for
                            their comfort; and this bill under consideration but aided the
                            provisions of the law according to its true intent, and compelled those
                            not entitled to its provisions to give up their concealed wealth.
                        Mr. CONNER could not see any necessity for the passage of this bill.
                        Mr. HENDRY was opposed to the provisions of the bill. In a majority of
                            cases it would operate hard, while in a few cases it might be
                            advantageous.
                        Mr. BENNETT believed that a debtor should have proper restrictions thrown
                            around him to prevent the creditor taking away necessary household
                            goods. The present law was for the benefit of dishonest men, and should
                            be modified by the passage of the bill under consideration.
                        Mr. GREEN thought this bill was an additional screw for the oppression of
                            the debtor, and consequently opposed it.
                        The bill failed to pass - yeas 21, follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    YEASMessrs. Anthony, Bennett, Blair,
                                        Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Craven, Gooding, Hargrove, Heffren,
                                        Jennings, Johnston, Line, McClure,McLean, Murray, O'Brien,
                                        Showmaker, Slack, Tarkington, Wagner and Wilson - 21.
                                    NAYS - Messrs. Beeson, Bobbs, Brown,
                                        Conner, Cravens, Culver, Fisk, Green, Hamilton, Hendry,
                                        Hill, Jones, Kinley, Lomax, March, Odell, Rice, Robinson,
                                        Steele, Stevens, Thompson, Turner, Wallace and Williams -
                                        25. 
                                
                            
                        
                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             The Senate resumed the consideration of the following bills on the
                                third reading.
                            Mr. Hargrove's (27), to amend section 63 of an act defining
                                misdemeanors, approved June 14, 1852.
                            The bill was passed - yeas 34, nays 0.
                            [Mr. HEFFREN, by leave, from the select committee thereon, returned
                                the bill (H. R. 147) to authorize companies to reduce their stock
                                &c., recommending passage ; the report was laid on the table and
                                the bill referred to the Judiciary
                                Committee.]
                            [Mr. GREEN, by leave, from a select committee, returned the bill (H.R
                                70) appropriating $8,000 from Lake county funds to complete Calumet
                                ditch, &c., recommending passage; the report was laid on the
                                table and the bill referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.]
                            Mr. Tarkington's (28), providing for the safekeeping, transfer and
                                disbursement of public moneys, stocks, bonds, mortgages and other
                                securities entrusted to officers therein mentioned,The bill was
                                passed - yeas 41, nays 0.
                            Mr. Brown's (32) for the better protection of growing cranberries,
                                and to prohibit the sale or purchase thereof within the time
                                specified therein, [from June 1 to October 1 ]
                            The bill was passed - yeas 30, nays 13.
                            Mr. Fisk's (33), to tax dogs and indemnify owners of sheep killed or
                                injured by dogs or wolves.
                            The bill did not pass - yeas 20, nays 24.
                            Mr. Rice's (36) to amend section 6 of an act providing for the
                                valuation and assessment of real and personal property, &c.,
                                approved June 21, 1852, so as to exempt certain property therein
                                named from taxation.
                            The object of the bill is to exempt from taxation all property
                                devoted exclusively to agriculture, and to educational and Common
                                School purposes, not exceeding one acre.
                            The bill was passed yeas - 31, nays 13.
                            Mr. GOODING moved to take up the temperance bill (H. R. 29.)
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 26, nays 13.
                        
                    

                
                
                
                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 21 1859.
                        No. 13.
                    
                    
                        
                            [On motion by Mr. CARNAHAN, 300 additional copies of the Wabash and
                                Erie Canal bill (S. ) were ordered to be printed for the use of tke
                                House.]
                            The question being on the adoption of the amendment offered by Mr.
                                Bennett, to strike out the words "or to any female." at was
                                adopted.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to strike out all that part of the bill which
                                requires the payment of money to procure a license.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to lay the motion on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 34, nays 12.
                            The question recurring upon the other amendment proposed by Mr.
                                Bennett, viz: In section 4, strike out "$20," and insert "$50."
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to amend the amendment, by making: all licenses
                                $50.
                            Mr. BENNETT moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                            Mr. WILSON moved to lay both on the table.
                            The amendment to the amendment was laid on the table.
                            The motion to lay the amendment on the table was then agreed to -
                                yeas 29, nays 18 - as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs, Anthony, Beeson, Brown,
                                            Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Conner, Cravens, Fisk, Green,
                                            Hamilton, Hargrove, Jennings, Johnston, Line, Lomax,
                                            McClure McLean, Miller, Murray, O'Orien, Odell, Rice,
                                            Robinson Shoemaker, Turner, Wallace, Williams and Wilson
                                            - 29.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Bennett, Blair, Cooper,
                                            Craven, Culver Gooding, Hefften. Hendry, Hill, Jones,
                                            Kinley, March, Slack, Steele, Stevens, Tarkington,
                                            Thompson, and Wagner - 18.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. BOBBS moved to amend by inserting after the word "manufacturer,"
                                in section 15, the words "or other persons," [of wine and cider
                                manufactured from the fruit grown by.]
                            The amendment was adopted.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to insert in the 15th section, after the word
                                "medicinal," the words culinary or mechanical."
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to amend the amendment, by inserting the words
                                "chemical" and "sacramental "
                            Mr. WAGNER moved to lay the amendment and the amendment to amendment
                                on the table.
                            Mr SLACK accepted of the amendment to the amendment.
                            The amendment was then laid on the table by yeas 29, nays 17.
                            Mr, TARKINGTON moved to strike out of section 15, the words
                                "druggists from," and insert the word "the" before the word
                                "selling."
                            A motion to lay the bill on the table, and that one hundred copies be
                                printed, was rejected by yeas 18, nays 28.
                            Mr. MARCH moved to strike out the word "druggist," wherever it
                                occurs.
                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the pending amendments were laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. WAGNER moved to strike out the three first lines of the section
                                15.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 31, nays 13.
                            Mr. GOODING moved to amend the emergency clause, so that this act
                                shall go into effect and be in force from and after the 4th of July,
                                1859.
                            The motion to amend was laid on the table.
                            Mr MARCH offered an amendment which provides that any person having a
                                license and who shall be convicted of a breach of any of the
                                provisions of the act during the time his license has a run, said
                                person shall be deprived of such license for the remnant of such
                                term.
                            Mr. GOODING moved to amend sec. 3, making the bond "$2,000" instead
                                of "$500," and "four" freehold securities instead of "two," also,
                                add words giving the right to a wife, child or other person, injured
                                by the sale of liquors, to recover damages. These amendments were
                                adopted.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to amend by striking out that part which prohibits
                                the sale of malt liquors manufactured in this State,in quantities
                                less than one gallon.
                            The amendment was rejected - yeas 17, nays 27.
                            Mr. GOODING moved to amend in section 10, after the word "sell,"' the
                                word "barter," and after the word "five" the words "for each
                                offence."
                            The amendment was adopted.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to strike out the words in section 15,
                                ''manufactured in this State."
                            Mr. BENNETT did not see any necessity for this amendment, and moved
                                to lay it on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            On motion, by Mr. JONES, the securities are made to live in the
                                "township" instead of "county," as the bill provides.
                            Mr. BOBBS made an ineffectual motion to allow druggists to sell
                                vinous, malt or spiritous liquors on the prescription of a
                                physician.
                            [A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of
                                the bill (H. R. 48) to amend section 6 of an act to organize County
                                Boards, &c,, approved June 17, 1852]
                            On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, the bill was amended so as to strike out
                                the word "all" in the fifth line of section 16. 
                            
                            Mr. MARCH moved to amend by adding in the proper place the
                                following:
                            
                                "With the exception of cider, manufactured
                                    from apples; wine, manufactured from native fruit, and beer
                                    manufactured in this State, no spiritous, vinous, malt or other
                                    intoxicating liquors, sold by any person licensed under the
                                    provisions of this act, shall be suffered to be drank in or
                                    about the house or place where sold, in or about any house,
                                    out-house, yard or garden, connected therewith."
                            
                            On motion by Mr. GOODING, the amendments were laid on the table -
                                yeas 27, nays 18.Mr. CRAVEN moved to amend by providing that any
                                place where mixed or poisonous liquors are sold or given away, shall
                                be deemed a common nuisance.
                            Mr. GOODING objected to it as being unconstitutional.
                            Mr. WALLACE moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 19, nays 26.
                            The amendment was then adopted - yeas 27, nays 17.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to strike out all that part of section 7 which
                                prohibits the sale of liquors on election days.
                            On motion by Mr. BENNETT, the amendment was laid on the table.
                            Mr. McLEAN moved to recommit the bill to the Temperance Committee,
                                with instructions to strike out all the amendments to the bill made
                                by the Senate.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, this motion was laid on the table - yeas
                                26, nays 18.
                            
                                
                                    

                                        YEAS - Messrs. Bennett, Blair,
                                            Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Cooper, Craven, Fisk, Gooding,
                                            Hargrove, Heffren, Hendry, Hill, Jennings, Johnston,
                                            Jones, Kinley, McClure, March, O'Brien, Robinson,
                                            Shoemaker,Tarkington.Thompson, Wallace and Wilson -
                                            26.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson, Brown,
                                            Conner, Cravens, Culver, Green, Hamilton, Line, Lomax,
                                            McLean Murray, Odell, Rice, Steele, Stevens, Turner and
                                            Williams - 18.
                                    
                                
                            
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed by yeas 33, nays 14.
                            And then the Senate adjourned.
                        
                    
                    


                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, February 16, 1859. 
                        
                        Mr. MURRAY presented the petition of several lawyers and county officers
                            of the county of Elkhart, asking for a division of the 10th Judicial
                            Circuit, which was referred to the Committee on the
                                Organization of Courts.
                        Mr. GRIFFIN presented the petition of Henry Ball and others, inhabitants
                            of Cedar Lake, in Lake county, asking for a law to protect fish in the
                            lakes of this State.
                        Mr. DAVIS presented two or three letters from his county on the same
                            subject, and asked for their reference, together with the above petition
                            and Mr. Scott's bill (121), for the protection of fish, to a select
                            committee of five, viz: Messrs. Griffin, Davis, Hamilton, of Boone,
                            Stanley and Murray.
                        On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, Mr. Scott's bill was taken up and
                            referred to the above committee.
                        Mr. USREY presented the petition of sundry members of the Bar and
                            citizens of Sullivan county, asking to be attached to the Vigo District
                            for Common Pleas, which was referred to the Committee on the
                                Organization of Courts.
                        Mr. DOBBINS asked, but was refused to record his vote on the bill for the
                            repeal Game law, which was postponed yesterday.
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                             Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, from the Committee on
                                    Elections, returned his bill (71), defining the
                                residence of an elector removing from one county to another in this
                                State, with an amendment by substitute, prescribing the
                                qualification under the second section of the second article of the
                                Constitution, and a residence of thirty days in the township where
                                the person offers to vote; and amending the 20th section of the act
                                of June 7,1852, so that if the election board be satisfied with his
                                oath, he may be permitted to vote, or if he refuse to swear they may
                                examine other witnesses.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, said there were doubts in some minds as to
                                the constitutionality of the first section.
                            On motion by Mr. DOBBINS, the bill was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary, with instructions
                                to inquire, &c.
                            Mr. KEMPF had leave of absence on account of ill health.
                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT, his bill (248) reported favorably yesterday
                                from the Committee on Banks, was taken up and
                                ordered to be engrossed,upon his explanation of its provisions.
                            Mr. STANFIELD, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts, returned Mr. Cavin'sbill (223) providing for
                                the return of juries in the Common Pleas, supplemental to the act of
                                May 20, 1852, with an amendment by substitute, providing - 
                            SEC. 1. That juries for the Court of Common Pleas
                                shall come in on the third day of the term, and the venire shall be
                                made returnable on that day.
                            The amendment was adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            He also returned Mr. Cavins' bill (222) changing the order of
                                business in the Common Pleas Court, without amendment, and
                                recommending passage.
                            Mr. STANFIELD. The change made by the first bill is, that the jury in
                                the Common Pleas shall come in on the third day, instead of the
                                first, as the law now stands. The second bill provides that the
                                order of business shall be so changed, that the first and second
                                days shall be devoted to probate business, and to making up issues
                                and preparing business for trials by jury, which come up on the
                                third day. 
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. SCOTT, from the Committee on Fees and
                                Salaries, returned Mr. Parks' bill (185) to amend the 4th
                                section of the act of March 2, 1855 regulating fees and salaries,
                                recommending that the same be laid on the table.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. TURPIE, from the same committee, returned Mr. Stanfield's bill
                                (2), to provide for the salaries of Governor, and Judges of the
                                Supreme and Circuit Courts, with amendment striking out the word
                                'sixteen" and inserting the word "fifteen," in lieu thereof, and
                                adding - 
                            SEC. 3. That no perquisites shall be paid to any
                                of the officers aforesaid in addition to the above compensation: and
                                emergency. 
                            
                            The amendments were adopted and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                        
                        
                             NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                             Mr. KNOWLTON asked and obtained leave to present a petition founded
                                thereon, a bill (278) fixing the time of holding Courts in the 11th
                                Judicial Circuit, prescribing the length thereof in each county
                                thereof, which, under a dispensation, was passed the first and
                                second readings and together with the petition, referred to the
                                     Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. PARRETT: A bill (279), to empower Plank Road Companies to sell
                                and convey real and personal estate.
                            Mr.STANFIELD: A bill (280) to give the custody and control of the
                                papers and records in the former Probate Courts to the Clerks of the
                                Courts of Common Pleas, and authorizing said clerks to make
                                transcripts, &c., to be read in evidence.
                            Mr. BLYTHE: A bill (281), to provide for the incorporation of Canal
                                Companies.
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading.
                            On the motion of Mr. USREY, his bill (201) to amend section 78 of the
                                act defining the jurisdiction of counties, &c., was taken up and
                                considered on the third reading.
                            The SPEAKER (Mr. Edwards in the Chair.) It is to correct an error on
                                page 192 of the Statutes.
                            Mr. CAVINS. It changes the word "west" to "east." The error was such
                                as to leave the gentleman from Sullivan (Mr. Usrey) without a
                                residence in any county in the State.
                            The bill was passed the final reading - yeas 80, nays 0.
                        
                        
                            IMPROVEMENT OF STOCK.
                             Mr. COMSTOCK, by leave, returned the Agricultural Committee's bill
                                (198) to prohibit the owners of bulls, boars and rams from allowing
                                them to run at large, with an amendment, striking out "ten" and
                                inserting "three," and adding - 
                            
                                "Provided, That no Court or Jury shall assess
                                    a greater sum in damages for any one breach of this act than as
                                    herein provided for one day."
                            
                            Mr. COMSTOCK explained and enforced the provisions of the bill. It
                                was not so much to enforce the matter, as to show the necessity of
                                improving the stock of the State. 
                            Mr. EARLY. By the statutes of 1852 the Board of County Commissioners
                                can say what kind of animals shall run at large. The authority the
                                matter was already amply sufficient.
                             Mr. LAWHEAD opposed the bill - representing the interests of that
                                numerous class of farmers whose stock run at large upon the common,
                                &c. It would work hardship on the small farmers.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, and Mr. MURRAY, Reported the bill as a just
                                auxiliary to the efforts of our Agricultural Societies in this
                                direction.
                            Mr. PROSSER was opposed to the bill for several reasons. The existing
                                statute was sufficient.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN. The existing statute was not intented for the
                                improvement of stock. It had no special reference to the male
                                animal. He expounded the existing law, and urged the importance and
                                necessity of the passage of the bill; and then, under the force of
                                the previous question - 
                            The amendments were adopted, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. ROBINSON, from the Committee on the Sinking
                                    Fund, reported that the Legislature having already
                                provided for the re-payment of the loan, that no legislation was
                                necessary on the matter in the Governor's message in relation
                                thereto; but for the management of the Sinking Fund, he reported the
                                following bills:
                            A bill (282) concerning the Sinking Fund and its management, and
                                prescribing the powers and duties of the Sinking Fund Board and its
                                officers.
                            A bill (283) to amend the 33d section of the first chapter of the
                                Revised Statutes of 1852, prescribing when suits may be brought in
                                certain cases therein named.
                            A bill (284) establishing fees, and duties to be performed in the
                                Sinking Fund office, and in connection therewith - 
                            A bill (285) authorizing the redemption of land mortgaged to the
                                Sinking Fund, or other trust funds, and there-instating of mortgages
                                in certain cases therein named; and providing a remedy against
                                bidders failing to comply with the terms of sale in cases of lands
                                sold by the Sink ing Fund Commissioners.
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading.
                        
                        
                            REMAINS OF THE LIQUOR LAW OF 1855.
                             Mr. STANFELD, (by leave,) returned from the select committee
                                thereon, Mr. Davis's bill (142) to authorize the Boards of
                                Commissioners of the several counties to make such allowance out of
                                the county treasuries of their respective counties, as will
                                indemnify the owners of property for losses sustained by the taking,
                                conveying or the destruction of such property by any officer, by
                                virtue of the provisions of the act entitled an act to prohibit the
                                manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors, and to repeal former
                                laws on this subject, approved February 18,1855, and in cases where
                                such property may have been used or carried away by such officer,
                                with amendments, adding to the first section:
                            Provided further, that no allowance shall be made
                                where the case has been barred by the statute of limitations, nor
                                unless there is a clear liability on the part of the officer.
                            Adding a section:
                            SEC. 3. That whenever any proceeding in a writ of
                                habeas corpus shall have been instituted by any person empowered
                                under the provisions of the said act, directed to any officer,
                                detaining such person in custody, and such officer shall have been
                                adjudged to pay the costs of such proceedings and shall have paid
                                the same, the said Board of Commissioners are hereby authorized and
                                empowered to allow such officer the sum or sums of money he may have
                                been compelled to pay as aforesaid.
                            The amendments were adopted.
                            Mr. COLGROVE gave reasons against the passage of the bill.
                            On motion by Mr. STANFIELD the bill was considered as engrossed, and
                                passed the first reading in the House of Representatives by the
                                following vote:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. - Messrs. Baird, Black, Blythe,
                                            Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark, Claypool, Clayton,
                                            Clements, Colgrove, Comstock, Cotton,Davis, Dobbins,
                                            Dougherty,Devol, Early, Eastham, Edwards, Firestone,
                                            Fordyce, Gif[ford] 
                                            [Gif]ford, Hall of Rush, Harrison, Hunter, Jones,
                                            Knowlton, Lawhead, Lewis, Mansfield, Massey, Merrifield,
                                            Murray, Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of
                                            Warren, Nelson, Newton, Parrett, Prosser, Row, Scott
                                            Shields, Shockley, Smith of Miami, Stanley, Stanfield,
                                            Stiles, Sullivan, Summers, Thompson of Elkhart, Usrey,
                                            Waterman, Wildman and Mr. Speaker.56. 
                                        NAYS. - Messrs. Austin, Boyd, Boxley,
                                            Collier, Durham, Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant,
                                            Hamilton of Boone, Hamilton of Wayne, Harney, Hartley,
                                            Jeffries, Johnston, Jordan, Kelly, McLain, Power,
                                            Sherman, Shull, Snyder, Tebbs, Treadway. Wheeler,
                                            Whetzel, Whiteman and Wood, - 27.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. STANFIELD now proposed the following amendment to the title,
                                adding these words: "and authorizing an allowance to officers who
                                have paid costs in cases of habeas corpus, under said act "
                            On motion by Mr. DOBBINS, the bill (S. 145) for the more uniform mode
                                of doing township business, was taken up, and, under a dispensation,
                                it was read twice and made the special order for this day at 2
                                o'clock.
                            On motion by Mr. DAVIS, Mr. Stanfield's bill (249), fixing the times
                                of Common Pleas in the counties ot St. Joseph, Marshall and Stark,
                                was passed the first reading in the House of Representatives - yeas
                                80, nays 0.
                            Mr. STANFIELD had leave of absence till Tuesday.
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, it was ordered that Messrs. Clark and
                                Waterman be added to the Committee on Claims.
                            Mr. COTTON, (by leave), returned from the select committee thereon,
                                his bill (137) to amend the 24th section of act concerning real
                                property, legalizing conveyances by married women under twenty-one
                                years of age, recommending passage. 
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                        
                        
                            NEW BILLS - UNDER A DISPENSATION.
                             By Mr. MURRAY: a bill (286) to fix the prices for printing notices
                                required by law, and prescribing penalty for violation thereof: [the
                                prices are such as suggested and agreed on by Indianapolis newspaper
                                publishers:]
                            By Mr. DEVOL: (287) providing for the extension of the building of
                                the Hospital for the Insane, and authorizing a loan of money for
                                that purpose: [$70,000:]
                            By Mr. JONES: (288) authorizing a reward for the discovery of the
                                cause of the disease commonly known as milk sickness:
                            By Mr. PROSSER: (289) to amend section 20, of the divorce act of May
                                13, 1852:
                            By Mr. SNYDER: (290; to repeal section 6 of the act concerning
                                promissory notes and bills of exchange, approved May 12, 1852:
                            Which bills were severally passed the first reading.
                            Mr. SNYDER submitted the following, in connection with a complaint
                                that he could not get the ear of the Chair.
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            That the Door-keeper be required to procure
                                                a bottle of acaustic oil for the benefit of members
                                                of this House, who are effected with deafness.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            The SPEAKER (Mr. Edwards in the Chair) ruled it out of order.
                            Mr. BROTHERTON, from the Committe on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Cavins' bill (263) to amend
                                the 37th section of the misdemeanor act of June 14, 1852, so as to
                                define the misdemeanor of the sale of intoxicating liquors near
                                religious meetings, &c , recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN, from a majority of the committee, returned his bill (32)
                                for the redemption of real estate sold on execution or order of
                                court, recommending passage. 
                            Mr. BROTHERTON submitted a minority report that it be laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN. The bill proposes to give the judgment debtor the
                                privilege of redeeming his real estate for 12 moths after sale, by
                                paying six per cent, interest, and six per cent penalty -to make the
                                certificates of purchase asssignable, &c. It proposes no change
                                of the collection laws.
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY it was refer to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary. 
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON submitted the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                         WHEREAS, The seventeenth section of
                                            article five of the State Constitution provides that the
                                            Governor may grant reprieves and pardons, and remit
                                            fines and forfeitures; and that he "shall report to the
                                            General Assembly,at its next meeting, each case of
                                            reprieve, commutation,or pardon granted, and, also, the
                                            names of all persons in whose favor remission of fines
                                            and forfeitures shall have been made and the several
                                            amounts remitted; and
                                        WHEREAS, No such report has been made
                                            to the present General Assembly. Therefore,
                                         Resolved, That the Governor be
                                            requested to lay before this House the information
                                            comtemplated by the aforesaid section of the
                                            Constitution.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            TOWNSHIP BUSINESS.
                             On motion by Mr. HUNTER, Mr Dobbins' bill (116) to provide for a
                                uniform mode of doing township business, was ordered to be
                                considered with the special order for this hour.
                            The SPEAKER announced that the bills (H. R. 87, 116, and S. 145) were
                                before the House. On motion by Mr.DOUGHERTY, the bills No's. 87 and
                                116 were laid on the table.
                            Mr. HARRISON moved to take up and consider Mr. Hunter's bill No. 117
                                to amend the law in relation to opening and changing public
                                highways.
                            Mr. PARRETT would prefer to consider the Senate's bill by itself.
                            Mr. MURRAY objected to encumbering the action of the House.
                            Mr. HARRISON desired to bring up the whole subject.
                            Mr. SCOTT. The bill from the Senate and that from the Committee on
                                Roads contemplate the same - the one trustee - would it not be best
                                to consider them together?
                             Mr. HARRISON withdrew the motion - the bill (117) not being
                                found.
                            The bill from the Senate, No. 145, was then considered by
                                sections.
                            Mr. HARNEY proposed to add, "and road districts," after "townships."
                                in the third section, which was agreed to.
                            Mr. HUNTER proposed to amend section 4, adding the words "for school
                                purposes;" and thereupon gave his views of the township system. He
                                would have township organizations for school purposes alone. But if
                                he could not get that modification, he would accept the one trus-
                                     tee as the next best. He
                                would bare a board of township school trustees, and they should act
                                without pay. He spoke at length.
                            Mr. HARRISON submitted that Mr. Hunter's proposition had been once
                                rejected. 
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, took a similar view, but he would pay the
                                Trustees. He would give the school business to Township Trustees,
                                and all the civil business of the townships to the County
                                Commissioners. He gave examples and defended his view of the whole
                                subject.
                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT, Mr. Hunter's amendment was laid on the
                                table - yeas 58, nays 23.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK moved to insert three instead of one Trustee.
                            Mr. SCOTT. The other day, I thought I discovered a disposition to
                                fall back on the three trustee system: and I was willing to remain
                                silent, while I supposed that was to be the final action on this
                                subject. But I see a change appears to have come over the House, and
                                I do not feel at liberty to let the occasion pass without placing
                                myself right on this question. Some men are theorists; others are
                                practicalists; and both are well in their place. I do not claim to
                                belong to one class or the other. But I fear gentlemen of the former
                                class have had a great deal to do with this bill. These are
                                gentlemen who court change - who scent it and follow after it with a
                                facility that is indeed astonishing, and i can not but think such
                                has been the origin of this bill, for I do not know how it is in
                                other sections, but in my section I have not heard a word of
                                complaint against the present system, though I suppose it must be
                                assumed that complaint has been made somewhere. I ain willing to
                                reduce the expense of our township system, but not to abolish it. I
                                have always been averse to the one-man power. I am unwilling to take
                                power from the people. I am willing to trust the people.
                            I believe the true principle of legislation is to leave with the
                                people as much power as you can. I am a Democrat, sir; I was
                                educated in that faith, and have never had occasion to change my
                                views of the principle of leaving as much as possible with the
                                people, the administration of all matters affecting their homes and
                                hearths. What does this system propose? If the principle is a good
                                one, I would ask some one of its friends to introduce a bill to
                                abolish the office of two of the three County Commissioners, and the
                                office of Treasurer and Auditor, and place the whole civil power of
                                the county in the hands of one Commissioner. With as much propriety
                                might we do this, as to commit all the civil power of the township
                                to the hands of a single trustee. If the argument is good in the one
                                case, it is good in the other. It is from questions arising out of
                                our township matters that causes frequently the greatest amount of
                                trouble in our courts of justice. The location, change and vacation
                                of roads are always most fruitful sources of trouble. Give this
                                power into one man's hands and be will take aides with his friends,
                                and there will be no remedy but by appeal to the County
                                Commissioners. I say, sir there should be at least three men to
                                advise on such questions.
                            Let us look at the powers proposed to be placed in the hands of this
                                township trustee. Gentlemen are not content with the sphere of
                                township business, but they would also make him a Justice of the
                                Peace. He is to preside over and decide upon all questions arising
                                in the civil affairs of the township, and beside all this, they wish
                                to cive him the office of a Justice of the Peace. Why, sir, you
                                might as well make him lawyer, doctor and preacher of the township
                                let him decide upon everything connected with the home interest of
                                the people. Let us see what the bill provides:
                            
                                "Second. He is to receive
                                    all moneys belonging to the township, and pay out the same as
                                    right and justice shall require."
                            
                            
                                "Third. To keep an office
                                    for the transaction of business."
                            
                             How long - how many days must he keep his office open? 365, Sundays
                                excepted! And it is proposed, on this bill, to diminish the expenses
                                of the townships! Mr. Speaker, theory, as I have said, may be very
                                well in its place; but put this into practice, and you will find, at
                                the end of the year, that, instead of diminishing, you have actually
                                increased the expenditures of the township. It is made his duty to
                                keep his office open; and that being the case, you may depend upon
                                it, that the figures at the end of the year will demonstrate an
                                increased expenditure on account of township business. But then he
                                is to have the care of highways and bridges, to make road districts,
                                alterations therein, to decide upon all this business which makes so
                                much trouble in the courts; he is to appoint supervisors, to see to
                                a proper application of moneys for road and other purposes, and all
                                the duties heretofore required of the Township Trustees, Clerk and
                                Treasurer under the supervisor's act. What an omnibus! It is giving
                                powers that ought never to be exercised by one man. I am opposed to
                                the one man power, in any shape and under all circumstances. I
                                believe it to be dangerous, even in small matters, to commit so many
                                of the civil interests of the people into the hands of one man.
                            Now let us look at this system as a question of economy. The chief
                                claim for it, set up bvyd, the great matter they hope to accomplish
                                by this bill: and I would be willing to stake my opposition to it on
                                that point. But, sir, the fact is the people have never asked for
                                this system. It is an experiment. It has never been tried. The
                                people are certainly in favor of a reduction of the public expenses,
                                but they are never forward to try experiments and test new theories.
                                Where is the petition which they have sent up for this bill? Sir, I
                                call upon gentlemen to assist here in reducing the public expenses;
                                but I would never do this at the expense of popular rights. I would
                                never surrender the right of the people to manage their own affairs,
                                around their own doors in their own way.
                            Sir, who are the friends of this bill? Is it not true that its
                                friends and chief supporters here are members of the profession to
                                which I myself belong? Is not that the fact? ["No." "Yes."] I fear,
                                sir, that it is not too much to say this.. Moreover, I fear that the
                                people have not asked for this bill: and the representatives of the
                                peo  ple should not give them
                                what they have not asked for.
                            Mr. KEEFER [interposing.] They are asking for it down here, south of
                                the National Road.
                            Mr. SCOTT. It may be they have asked for it south of the National
                                Road. But, Sir, north of the National Road they do not ask for this
                                bill. I speak for my own county. They do not ask for it there. They
                                have never thought of it, They would be astonished to hear that this
                                new system was imposed upon them now, when they have but just got
                                themselves well used to the township system of 1852.
                            Some say that our township system is too expensive; but there are
                                also some who seem to think that government ought not to cost
                                anything that It ought to be sustained without expense to the
                                people. True, that would be a desirable state of things, and one
                                which I would myself delight to see. But while we are what we are,
                                such a state of things is what we can not have, and what we can not
                                expect.
                            Mr. MELLETT thought there was danger of carrying this doctrine too
                                far. Power must be delegated. What extraordinary power has this
                                Trustee? He appoints the Supervisor of roads, and divides the
                                township into road districts. He argued that there was not a thing
                                to be done in the range of township business, which could not be
                                better done by one man than three, and he need net say cheaper. He
                                gave examples.
                            Mr. HARRISON said this bill was similar in its provisions to that
                                which he had reported in the House (87) and that also introduced by
                                Mr. Dobbins' (No. 116.) He answered the objections to the one
                                Trustee system - replying particularly and at some length to Mr.
                                Murray, Mr. Scott and others.
                            Mr. MURRAY spoke against the bill in detail, calling attention
                                particularly to the point that there was no restriction as to the
                                amount of charges which the proposed Township Trustee may make for
                                his services: he was required to keep his office open all the year:
                                and he might charge $1,50 a day for that time. The bill was
                                especially defective in this, and fatal to the plea of economy. Not
                                a petition has been offered for this one-horse bill. He would prefer
                                three Trustees, with proper restrictions as to the time of sessions,
                                &c.
                            Mr. HARRISON. The same objections would lie against three, that are
                                preferred against one.
                            On motion by Mr. PROSSER, Mr. Comstock's amendment was laid on the
                                table - yeas 46, nays 40.
                            Mr. COLLIER moved to strike out from the 6th section these words: "to
                                keep an office for the transaction of township business."
                            It was agreed to.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, moved to strike out - "care and
                                superintendance of highways and bridges in his township."
                            Mr. HARNEY proposed to add: "except locating, vacating and changing
                                highways, which duty shall be performed by the County
                                Commissioners."
                            The SPEAKER ruled this out of order.
                            The amendment was rejected.
                            Mr. PARRETT had a section which he proposed at the proper time to
                                offer for the perfection of the bill in this respect, viz:
                            
                                "SEC. -. The Trustee shall
                                    not have power to change, vacate, or open any highway in any
                                    township in any county in this State, but such power shall be
                                    vested in the County Commissioners under the same regulations by
                                    petition and notice as now provided."
                            
                            Mr. MELLETT thought the striking this clause would not effect the
                                bill one way or the other.
                            The clause was stricken out.
                            Mr. SULLIVAN proposed further to a by inserting appropriately, in the
                                6th section words "school," "and school," so as to read " school or
                                other purposes," "supervisors and school act." 
                            The amendment was adopted.
                            Mr. HALL, of Grant, proposed to insert:
                            
                                "The said Trustee shall obtain from the
                                    township assessor a list of persons taxable in said township,
                                    and make out a list of each person's road tax, and hand the same
                                    over to the supervisor by the first day of August."
                            
                            It was rejected.
                            Mr. DURHAM proposed to add:
                            
                                "So as to leave the location of school houses
                                    to the majority of the people voting in the vatious school
                                    districts."
                            
                            It was rejected.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS proposed to strike out the words: "to receive and pay
                                out moneys of th township, according to law, right and justice."
                            Mr. SHULL proposed to add: "and hand over the money to the proper
                                authorities."
                            The SPEAKER. It is out of order.
                            On motion by Mr. CAVINS, Mr. Clements' amendment was laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, proposed to add:
                            
                                "Shall have power to administer oaths when
                                    necessary in the discharge of the duties of his office."
                            
                            The amendment was adopted.
                            Mr. SULLIVAN proposed to amend the 7th section, adding after the word
                                "election," these words: "and shall, with the consent of the
                                majority of the electors present, proceed to appoint the judges and
                                clerks thereof."
                            It was rejected.
                            Mr. HUNTER proposed to amend the 8th section.
                            
                                Strike out after the word "for" the words
                                    "township, road or other purposes," and insert: "the payment of
                                    such Trustee for the construction and repairs of school houses,
                                    and for the providing of fuel and furniture therefor."
                            
                            It was rejected.
                            Mr. AUSTIN proposed to strike out "County Commissioners" and insert
                                "tax payers," which was rejected.
                            Mr. HUNTER proposed to add to section 10: "which report shall be
                                verified by his affidavit," which was adopted.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, proposed to amend section 11:
                            Strikeout "the following Monday," and insert: "and shall, within five
                                days thereafter," report, &c.
                            It was adopted.
                            Mr. PROSSER proposed to amend said section further:
                            Strikeout the words: "or by publishing the same in some newspaper
                                published in his township."
                            It was adopted.
                            
                            Mr. HUNTER proposed to amend in the 14th section:
                            Strike out after the word "exceeding" these words: "$1 50 per day for
                                time actually employed," and insert "$20 per annum."
                            Mr. DAVIS opposed.
                            Mr. SCOTT. The friends of the bill were brought up standing here on a
                                question of economy.
                            Mr. GIFFORD spoke for the amendment.
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON (Mr. Colgrove in the Chair.) It was grossly
                                unequal and unjust in its application to such townships as Center
                                and New Albany.
                            Mr. HUNTER defended.
                            Mr. MELLETT offered further opposition.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. To meet the difficulty at the proper time, he would
                                offer the following:
                            
                                "Provided, however That
                                    where such Trustee has served but part of a day, he shall be
                                    allowed payment only in proportion to the time spent."
                            
                            On motion by Mr. PROSSER, Mr. Hunter's amendment was laid on the
                                table - yeas 49, nays 32.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, proposed a substitute for section 14.
                            
                                "The Trustee, at the time of settling with the
                                    Board of Commissioners, as provided in section eleven, shall
                                    file with said Board an itemized statement, under oath, of his
                                    charges for services, for which said Board of Commissioners
                                    shall pay him such fees as shall be allowed by law to be paid
                                    out of the fund belonging to the proper township."
                            
                            Pending this - 
                            The House, at 5:30 o'clock, adjourned.
                        

                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             THURSDAY, February 17, 1859. 
                        
                         On motion by Mr. CARNAHAN, the vote by which 300 copies of the bill (S.
                            ) were ordered to be printed, in relation to the Wabash and Erie Canal,
                            was reconsidered.
                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            Mr. JENNINGS presented a petition from certain citizens and trustees
                                of Franklin township, Johnson county, praying for a law providing
                                that township roads shall be placed on section or straight lines,
                                which was referred to the Committee on Roads.
                            Mr. HAMILTON presented a petition from certain citizens of Allen
                                county, on the subject of the canal, which was laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. CRAVEN presented a petition from certain citizens of Madison
                                county, praying for the abolishment of Common Pleas Courts, which
                                was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            
                        
                        
                            SAFE-KEEPING OF PUBLIC MONEYS.
                             Mr. HEFFREN, from the Committee on Finance,
                                returned Mr. Shoemaker's bill (90) providing for the safe keeping of
                                public moneys, with an amendment, striking out sections 7, 8 and 9,
                                recommending passage.
                            Mr. GOODING objected to the amendment proposed by the committee, for
                                he regarded it as striking out the provisions of the bill which
                                guarded the public treasury, and if concurred in would leave the
                                treasury subject to be plundered by any dishonest officer who may
                                have the place conferred upon him.
                            Mr. HEFFREN said these sections were stricken out because it was
                                supposed to be unconstitutional to incorporate them in this bill,
                                but that the committee had directed him to draw up a new bill
                                embracing the provisions stricken out.
                            Mr. ANTHONY informed the Senate that a bill similar to this one was
                                about to be sent here from the House, and for this reason he would
                                like to see the bill laid on the table.
                            Mr. HEFFREN understood the measure that was being matured in the
                                House, and thought it a burlesque upon the treasury system. It made
                                the moneys to be received to consist of the bank notes of this
                                State, when it would not receive the notes of the Back of Kentucky,
                                which he undertook to say were better than the Bank of the State of
                                Indiana.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON objected to the bill, because it made taxes to be paid
                                in gold and silver coin thus giving to your office holders metallic
                                currency and leaving paper rags to be the currency of the
                                people.
                            Mr. BLAIR moved to amend by inserting in the proper places the words
                                "or notes of solvent specie-paying banks organized under the laws of
                                this State."
                            Mr. WAGNER objected to the bill and to the principle of the State
                                locking up gold and silver coin in her vaults,and then chartering
                                paper banks all over the State.
                            Mr. SLACK thought no Senator could wish for our present financial
                                system to be continued. He was in favor of only receiving gold and
                                silver into the State Treasury. When he sees a Democrat voting for
                                the establishment of banks all over the country, he questions that
                                man's democracy.
                            Mr. Blair's amendment to the committee amendment was adopted, by yeas
                                27, nays 19 as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Bobbs, Brown, Conner, Cooper,Cravens,
                                            Craven, Culver, Green, Hamilton, Hendry, Hill, Johnston,
                                            Lomax, McLean, Murray, Odell, Rice, Robinson, Steele,
                                            Stevens, Tarkington, Thompson and Wagner - 27.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Conley,
                                            Fisk, Gooding, Hargrove, Heffren, Jennings, Jones,
                                            Kinley, Line, McClure, March, Miller, O'Brien,
                                            Shoemaker, Slack, Williams and Wilson - 19.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. ANTHONY moved to lay the whole subject on the table.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 9, nays 39.
                            The amendment of the committee was then adopted - yeas 27, nays
                                18.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to amend by adding to the first section the words
                                "and the solvent specie paying banks of all States."
                            Mr. MARCH suggested the words "and the notes of all good, solvent
                                individuals."
                            Mr. BLAIR objected to the amendment on the ground that the State
                                ought not to furnish to her people a currency which she would not
                                receive herself.
                            Mr. HEFFREN insisted that if the bill wag pissed with the amendment
                                just adopted, the Legislature would be continually besieged by
                                county treasurers all over the State asking for relief because of
                                losses sustained by taking this paper currency, and claiming that we
                                authorized them to take this kind of rag-tag and bob-tail
                                currency.
                            He offered this amendment to see how far Senators would go in this
                                matter, and as a mat ter of
                                consisted principally of Kentucky money, which was far better than
                                any issued in Indiana.
                            Mr. MURRAY could not see this question in the light of the Senator
                                who has just spoken, so far as he refers to the justice meted out to
                                Southern Indiana by the amendment adopted; for they had branches of
                                the bank of the State, and they had free tanks in the South part of
                                the State. He insisted that if money authorized by the State was
                                good enough for the people, it should be good enough to be received
                                into the State Treasury. He was opposed to the original bill, but
                                would vote for it as now amended. 
                            Mr. STEELE contended that the banks of the State, particularly the
                                fee banks, were better than those of Kentucky, and should be
                                received by the State in preference to all others, and that the free
                                banks were better secured to the bill holder than any other banks in
                                this Union. He was in favor of keeping all the banks in this State
                                on a specie paying basis, and in favor of the State receiving her
                                currency so long as that state of things existed.
                            Mr. ROBINSON thought it not the province of the Legislature to
                                designate what kind of money the Treasurers shall receive; it is
                                presumed they will take none but good money, and if they do, their
                                securities are responsible. He was, therefore, opposed to all such
                                amendments to the bill.
                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the amendment was laid on the table.
                            Mr. SLACK proposed to amend so that after the 1st day of June, 1859,
                                all payments shall be made from the State and County Treasuries in
                                specie or the specie paying banks of the State; and after the 1st of
                                June, 1861, all payments shall be made in specie only.
                            Mr. MARCH was in favor of the amendment, To insert a provision in
                                this bill to take paper money, is simply legalizing this kind of
                                currency, and we had much better never say a word about the kind of
                                money that shall be received into the Treasury. To struggle for all
                                ascendency over a common interest, he was opposed. He trusted the
                                amendment may be adopted, or that we may strike our all that relates
                                to the kind of currency to be received. He regarded the provision
                                adopted as legislating for one kind of interest over another.
                            Mr. WALLACE did not know what the bill was when the amendments were
                                adopted, and for that reason he did not vote on them. He did not see
                                how certain gentlemen could oppose the proposition of the Senator
                                from Huntington. He thought the Bank of the State of Indiana was
                                crushing out our free banks for the purpose of making more room for
                                its own circulation; and that in a few years our State would be
                                literally overrun with probably $9,000,000 of its circulation. Now
                                this proposition for gold or silver is the only means to prevent
                                this gaining of unlimited powers by the Bank of the State: and as a
                                Democrat and an opponent of the Bank of the State he was in favor of
                                the proposition.
                            Mr. BENNETT said he never should vote to force the laboring men of
                                Indiana to pay their taxes in specie. The taxes are already
                                burdensome, and a cry for reform comes up from every part of our
                                State. I can not consent to compel my constituents to pay their
                                enormous taxes in a currency which they can not obtain, except by
                                undergoing a "shave" at the hands of some razor faced broker, to say
                                nothing of the time spent in the transaction. The State has
                                authorized by law the circulation of certain bank paper, and by a
                                vote of this Senate has endorsed that circulation, and we have no
                                right to force this paper on the people and refuse to receive it for
                                taxes. We could better serve the people by abolishing one-half of
                                our offices, demolish the numberless little petty offices with which
                                the country is filled, than by adopting such amendments as the one
                                under consideration. Instead of a reform, such a provision will add
                                insult to injury. This doctrine of "hard currency" is simply the
                                re-galvenized ghost of a departed Locofoco humbug. I shall now and
                                always oppose the proposition of the Senator from Huntington, (Mr.
                                Slack.)
                            Mr. WAGNER argued against making any law in relation to what currency
                                collectors of revenue should receive; and would say nothing that
                                could be construed into anything else. He should vote against the
                                amendments, and against the bill.
                            Mr. HAMILTON said some of our banks were established on very small
                                bases, though there are some of them which are conducted by good men
                                and are established upon a firm basis. He was for the people, and
                                should probably vote for the amendment.
                            Mr. BOBBS was a bank man; and insisted that we could not get along
                                without a bank currency. He objected to making a distinction between
                                the State and individuals if the currency was good enough for the
                                people, it was good enough for the State. With a couple of
                                amendments he should vote for the bill. He moved that the question
                                be postponed till Monday next at 2 o'clock.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. MURRAY, by leave, offered the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That for the remainder of this
                                            session, the Senate will hold evening sessions, on each
                                            Monday, Wednesday and Friday evening - commencing at 7
                                            o'clock.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. CARNAHAN, from the Finance Committeee,
                                returned Mr.Wagner's bill (159) recommending indefinite
                                postponement. The bill and report were laid on the table.
                            [Mr, KINLEY, by leave, offered a resolution which was adopted,
                                directing the Door-keeper to procure from the printer, Professor
                                Mills' Opinions on the School Law, and to give 200 copies to the
                                House and 100 to the author.]
                            Mr. CONLEY, from the same committee, returned the bill (H. R. 169)
                                recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. JONES, from the same committee, returned his bill (167) with
                                amendments, recommending its passage.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN made an ineffectual motion to lay the report and bill on
                                the table - yeas 17, nays 27.
                        
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. WAGNER moved to recommit the bill (167) under consideration at
                                the time of recess, to the Judiciary
                                Committee.
                            The motion, was agreed to.
                            Mr. BEESON, from the Committee on Finance, returned Mr. Conley's bill
                                (113) providing postage stamps, papers and a reporter for General
                                Assembly, recommending indefinite postponement.
                            Mr. CONLEY objected to concurrence in the report.
                            Mr. BENNETT hoped the report would be concurred in.
                            Mr. GREEN favored the bill, and moved to lay the report on the table
                                and recommit the bill to the Judiciary
                                Committee.
                            Mr. HAMILTON favored the bill as a matter of economy.
                            Mr. HEFFREN said the idea of getting a competent Reporter for $4 a
                                day was simply ridiculous. The committee, with but one exception,
                                was in favor of the postponement, and he hoped this report would be
                                concurred in.
                            The bill was indefinitely postponed - yeas 26, nays 12.
                            Mr. RICE, from the same committee, returned Mr. Williams' bill (160),
                                recommending that it lie on the table, there being a bill of the
                                same character now on its third reading. The report was concurred
                                in.
                            Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee, returned the bill (H. R.
                                28), recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. BENNETT, from the same committee, returned the bill (H. R. 20)
                                against carrying concealed weapons, without recommendation.
                            Mr. BENNETT said the committee were equally divided upon the
                                subject.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved its indefinite postponement.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 14, nays 28.
                            The bill was ordered to a third reading.
                            Mr. CONNER, from the same committee, returned the bill (H. R. 101),
                                recommending its passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. COBB, from the same committee, returned the bill (H. R. 133),
                                recommending that it lie on the table. The report was concurred
                                in.
                            Mr. RICE, from the same committee, returned his bill (108) regulating
                                general elections, recommending passage.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. HEFFREN objected to its engrossment.
                            Mr. RICE explained his bill.
                            Mr. WALLACE thought the bill was intended to inaugurate the plug ugly
                                system in the State of Indiana, and he objected to it in toto.
                            Mr. ANTHONY was in favor of the passage of the bill, in order to
                                prevent such disgraceful scenes as have occurred in our neighboring
                                cities.
                            Mr. HEFFREN looked upon this as a bill to deprive foreign citizens of
                                the right to vote. Either party having a majority could use it for
                                outrageous purposes.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON moved to amend by striking out all that part of the bill
                                which requires 20 days residence in the township or precinct. If
                                this amendment was not incorporated in the bill, be would not vote
                                for it.
                            Mr. BENNETT was in favor of a law to prevent trouble at the polls,
                                and such is the intension of the bill under consideration. He could
                                not see how Democratic Senators could consistently oppose it. All
                                parties in the State have disgraced themselves by the importation of
                                votes, and now let us enact a law that will supercede the necessity
                                of importations.
                            Mr. KINLEY moved that the bill lie on the table, 300 copies be
                                printed, and that it be made the special order for Tuesday next at 2
                                o'clock.
                            Mr. GOODING asked for a division of the question.
                            Mr. KINLEY withdrew his motion for the present.
                            Mr. RICE moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 27, nays 21. 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Bobbs. Brown, Conner. Cooper, Cravens,
                                            Culver, Gooding, Green, Hendry, Hill, Kinley, Linee,
                                            March, Murray, Odell, Rice, Robinson, Steele, Stevens,
                                            Thompson, Turner. Wagner and Wallace - 27.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Conley,
                                            Craven, Fisk, Hamilton, Hargrove, Heffren,
                                            Jennings,Johnston, Jones, Lomax, McClure, McLean,
                                            Miller, O'Brien, Shoemaker, Slack, Tarkington, Williams
                                            and Wilson - 21.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. Line made an ineffectual motion to strike out " 20 " and insert
                                " 10."
                            Mr, KINLEY renewed his motion.
                            Mr. GOODING asked for a division of the question.
                            The bill was not laid on the table.
                            Mr. LINE moved to amend by striking out all that part of the bill
                                which requires the Judges to count out the votes before they
                                adjourn.
                            Mr. RICE objected to the amendment. He regarded this as a vital point
                                in the bill.
                            Mr. BOBBS hoped that feature of the bill would not be stricken
                                out.
                            Mr. WALLACE joined the Senator in the hope that this feature would
                                not be stricken out.
                            The amendment was rejected.
                            The bill was then ordered to be engrossed by yeas 25, nays 22:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Bobbs, Brown, Conner, Cooper, Cravens,
                                            Craven, Culver, Green, Hendry, Hill, Jones, Kinley,
                                            March, Murray, Rice, Robinson, Steele, Stevens,
                                            Thompson, Turner and Wagner - 25.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Conley,
                                            Fisk, Gooding, Hamilton, Hargrove, Heffren Jennings,
                                            Johnston, Line, Lomax, McClure, Miller, O'Brien, Odell,
                                            Shoemaker, Slack, Tarkington, Wallace, Williams and
                                            Wilson - 22.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. SLACK, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                the bill (H, R. 82) with" amendment, recommending its passage. The
                                bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. RICE, from the same committee, returned the bill (H. R. 57)
                                recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. MURRAY, from the same committee, returned a memorial with
                                reference to the Cass County Seminary, recommending the passage of a
                                bill (No. 219) in relation thereto.
                            On motion by Mr. SLACK, the rules were suspended and the bill read by
                                title instead of being read through by sections.
                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the rules were suspended and the bill
                                read the second time by title.
                            
                            Mr. SLACK, by leave, introduced a bill (220) allowing a Sheriff to
                                empannel traverse juries from bystanders when the county officers
                                shall fail to draw a jury before the Court meets.
                            On motion by Mr. SLACK, the rules were suspended, the bill read the
                                second and third times, and finally passed the Senate - yeas 42,
                                nays 0.
                            Mr. WAGNER, from the Committee on Education, returned his bill (85)
                                with amendments, recommending passage. The report was concurred
                                in.
                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the bill was laid on the table and 300
                                copies ordered to be printed.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON, from the same committee, returned the bill (H. R.
                                103) recommending indefinite postponement. The report was concurred
                                in.
                            Mr. KINLEY, from the same committee, returned his bill (134)
                                recommending its passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. O'BRIEN, from the same committee, returned Mr. Lomax's bill, (79)
                                recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. CONNER, from the Committee on Incorporations, returned Mr.
                                Craven's bill (171), recommending that it be laid on the table. The
                                report was concurred in.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON, from the same committee, returned his bill (162),
                                recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. BLAIR, from the same committee, returned Mr. Cravens' bill (156),
                                authorizing purchasers of roads under mortgage sales to organize as
                                incorporated companies, recommending its passage.
                            On motion by Mr,. CRAVENS [Mr. Murray in the Chair], the bill was
                                read the third time and finally passed the Senate by yeas 35, nays
                                5.
                            Mr. STEVENS, from the same committee, returned the bill (H. R. 131),
                                recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be engrossed. 
                            Mr. LINE, from the Committee on Federal Relations,
                                returned the joint resolution (S 6), recommending its indefinite
                                postponement. The report was concurred in. 
                            Mr. STEVENS, from the Committee on Printing,
                                returned his bill (192), submitting a substitute therefor, and
                                recommending its passage.
                            On motion by Mr. WALLACE, the bill was laid on the table and 300
                                copies ordered to be printed.
                            On motion by Mr. CONNER, his bill (212) was taken from the files and
                                referred to the Judiciary Committee.
                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, his bill (185) was taken from the table
                                and placed on the files.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, Mr. Slack's bill (6) was taken from the
                                table and placed on the files.
                            The following bills were introduced by leave and severally passed the
                                first reading.
                            By Mr. TURNER: (221) authorizing and empowering supervisors of
                                highways to keep in repair roads which have been changed by the
                                construction or running of railroads.
                            By Mr. ODELL: (222) taxing the Bank of the State and its branches,
                                and prohibiting said bank from issuing notes on deposits. 
                            By Mr. WILSON: (223) to confirm the title to certain swamp lands.
                            By Mr. GREEN: (224) to amend an act to establish the Court of Common
                                Pleas, approved May 14, 1852.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON, by leave offered resolution, which was adopted,
                                authorizina the Senate difficulty Investigating Committee employ a
                                clerk during such investigation.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the rules being suspended, Mr. Odell's bill
                                (222), was read by title the second time and referred to the
                                    Committee on Banks.
                            And then the Senate adjourned.

                        

                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             THURSDAY, February 17, 1859. 
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS, &C. 
                            By Mr. SUMMERS: embracing the claim Isaac P. Sybert - $75 - for
                                arresting a fugitive horse-thief:
                            By Mr. McLAIN: embracing the claim of William Fleming for $110, on
                                account of expenses in arresting a fugitive:
                            By Mr. GRIFFIN: the communication of David K. Pettibone, with
                                reference to a similar matter:
                            Which were referred to the Committee on
                                Claims.
                            By Mr. McLAIN: of Henry Baker and others citizens of Alien county,
                                asking for such legislation as shall insure the continuance of the
                                navigation of the Wabash and Erie Canal.
                            On motion by Mr. DOBBINS it was laid on the table.
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            By Mr. DAVIS - Judiciary - returning his bill
                                (251) relative to conveyances to purchasers of land sold by
                                executors, &c., recommending passage.
                            By Mr. COLGROVE - Judiciary - returning Mr.
                                Parrett's bill (259), to amend the misdemeanor act with reference to
                                lewdness and public indecencies, recommending passage.
                            These reports were concurred in.
                            By Mr. MELLETT - Judiciary - returning Mr.
                                Knowlton's bill (278), fixing the Courts in the 11th Judicial
                                Circuit, asking to be discharged from its further consideration.
                            On motion by Mr. DAVIS, it was laid on the table for the present.
                            By Mr. DAVIS - Judiciary - returning a petition
                                with reference to a constitutional question, respecting certain
                                official fees, and it was laid on the table.
                            By Mr. HARTLEY - Claims - reporting favorably on
                                the claim of John H. Orr, of Marion county, for $48.
                            The SPEAKER (calling Mr. Murray to the Chair) stated the merits of
                                this claim, and then - 
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. WATERMAN - Claims - reporting favorably on the
                                claim of John E. Foudray, of Marion county, for $188recovery of a
                                fugitive, &c. 
                            
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON gave a statement of the merits of this claim.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, resisted the claim, urging the law applicable
                                to the case.
                            The report was concurred in and the claim allowed.
                            By Mr. WILDMAN - Claims - reporting favorably on
                                Thomas Johnson's claims for collect taxes in 1857.
                            The report was not concurred in.
                            Mr. WILDMAN - Claims - reporting favorably on the
                                claim of Charles E. Smith.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            On motion by Mr. DOBBINS, the petition presented this morning by Mr.
                                McLean, in regard to the navigation of the Wabash and Erie Canal was
                                taken up from the table and referred to the Committee on
                                    Canals.
                            On motion by Mr. DURHAM, it was ordered that Mr. Sullivan be added to
                                the select committee on the bill No. 238[House of Refuge.] 
                            Mr. PROSSER, under a dispensation of the orders, by yeas 67, nays 15,
                                introduced a bill (291), to prescribe the mode of taxing the Bank of
                                the State of Indiana; to repeal the 15th section of its charter, and
                                to prohibit said Bank from issuing on its deposits, which was passed
                                the first reading.
                            On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, (the rules being suspended for
                                the purpose), the bill was read the second time by title and
                                referred to a select committee of five, viz: Messrs. Hamilton, of
                                Boone, &c.
                            On motion by Mr. BLACK, (under a dispensation), Mr. Knowlton's bill
                                (278) was taken up and referred to Messrs. Black, Hall, of Grant,
                                Firestone, Comstock and Knowlton.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges, returned
                                Mr. Hamilton, of Boone's bill (242) in relation to the fees and
                                salaries of County Auditors, Treasurers and Clerks, fixing their
                                compensation, &c., recommending that the same be laid on the
                                table.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. EDWARDS, from a majority of the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions, returned the petition of David McDonald
                                and Others, citizens of Marion county, and, founded thereon, he
                                reported a bill (292) requiring preference to be given to graduates
                                of the Institutions for the Education of the Blind and of the Deaf
                                and Dumb among persons desirous of employment therein, which was
                                passed the first reading.
                            Mr. BOYD, from the same committee, returned the committee's bill
                                (204) lequiring the towship assessors to make lists of the deaf,
                                dumb and blind, in this State, recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. SCOTT, from the Committee on Fees and
                                Salaries, returned Mr. Harney's bill (162) to amend
                                section 4 of the act of June 11, 1852, providing for the election
                                arid certain duties and fees of prosecuting and district attorneys,
                                recommending that it be laid on the table.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. SCOTT, from the same committee, returned two resolutions of the
                                House of Representatives, with reference to a revision of the laws
                                regulating fees and salaries, with the expression of opinion that
                                legislation thereon is inexpedient, and that the resolutions be laid
                                on the table.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. SMITH, of Miami, from the Committee on
                                    Corporations, returned his bill (89) to amend section
                                3 of the charter of the town of Peru, recommending passage.
                            It was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. TURPIE, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned Mr. Brotherton's bill (266) for the transfer of records
                                from t e Common Pleas to the Circuit Court, in certain cases wherein
                                the Common Pleas have no jurisdiction, recommending passage.
                            It was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. POWER, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill (199)
                                to create the 14th Judicial Circuit, recommending passage.
                            It was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. WHITEMAN, from a majority of the select committee thereon,
                                returned his bill (151) to repeal the 15th section of the act
                                concerning promissory notes and bills of exchange, and repealing all
                                laws authorizing the waiving of valuation and appraisement laws of
                                property sold under execution, recommending passage.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS hoped the report would not be concurred in.
                            Mr. WHITEMAN. Many persons were swindled into this operation of
                                waiving valuation and appraisement laws. He gave examples, and
                                argued the wisdom of the repeal of these laws, There should be but
                                one mode of collecting in a commonwealth.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, had been inclined to go for part of the bill, but
                                he hoped the valuation and appraisement laws would not be repealed.
                                They had been in operation long enough to be understood, and repeal
                                would operate heavily on the poor, &c.
                            On motion by Mr. DOUGHERTY, it was referred to the Committee
                                    on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. WILDMAN, from the select committee thereon, returned the
                                Judiciary Committee's bill (68) to repeal the act authorizing the
                                detection of felons, recommending indefinite postponement.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. PARRETT, from the select committee thereon, returned Mr. Scott's
                                bill (21) to provide for voluntary assignments, with amendments,
                                viz:
                            Strike out sections 13 and 16, and insert: "Any part of the property
                                assigned on which there are liens or incumbrances, may be sold by
                                the Trustee, subject to such lien or incumbrance," &c.
                            The amendments were adopted, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. MELLETT, from the select committee thereon, returned Mr.
                                Kempf'sbill (216) to prohibit intermarriages of consanguinity,
                                recommending passage.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY and Mr. DOBBINS objected to the oath required upon
                                application for marriage license, and moved the reference of the
                                bill to the Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr. MELLETT. If the gentlemen would withdraw, he would move to strike
                                out the objectionable section.
                            The bill was referred.
                            
                            Mr. WILDMAN, from the select committee on the Canada thistle bill
                                (224), returned the same, recommending passage.
                            It was ordered to engrossed.
                            Mr. SULLIVAN, from the select committee on Mr. Kempf's Magdalen
                                Asylum bill (238), returned the same, recommending passage.
                            Mr. SNYDER, from a minority of the committee, reported the expression
                                of opinion that the bill was visionary in character and utterly
                                impracticable in its details, and recommended indefinite
                                postponement.
                            The majority report was not concurred in.
                            On motion by Mr. DOBBINS, the subject was laid on the table - to
                                await Mr. Kempf's return.
                            Mr. MILLER, from the select committee on Public Printing, appointed
                                to report on the prices to be paid the State Printer, reported a
                                bill (293) fixing the mode of electing State Printer, defining his
                                duties, fixing his compensation and repealing all laws in conflict
                                with this act: which was passed the first reading. [Composition, 45
                                cents per thousand; press, 40 cents per token - form of 16 pages.
                                Form not exceeding 8 pages, shall be charged 8 pages. Covers, one
                                page. Matter shall not be stretched out in an unworkmanlike manner,
                                &c.
                            Mr. RITTER, from the Committee on Public
                                    Expenditures, submitted a detailed report on the
                                specific amounts of money drawn from the State Treasury without
                                authority of law, (as they believe.) in connection with the accounts
                                of Messrs. Hayden, Collins and McClure, three late Secretaries of
                                State, recommending the adoption of a joint resolution of the
                                following title.
                            A joint resolution (No. 21) directing the Governor of the State to
                                require the Attorney General to examine into the accounts of moneys
                                drawn from the State Treasury by the last three Secretaries of
                                State.
                            Mr. TURPIE moved to refer the joint resolution to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, amended - "with instructions to bring suit on
                                the bonds of Messrs. Hayden, Collins and McClure."
                            Mr. KNOWLTON proposed to include all other defaulting officers.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY moved to include the report in the motion to refer. It
                                contained legal arguments involving questions of conflict in the
                                statutes.
                            Mr. TURPIE accepted this modification.
                            Mr. MURRAY demanded a division of the question. He belived the motion
                                to refer to be an attempt to smother this report. He wanted 10,000
                                copies of it printed. Its facts were important to the people. This
                                investigation had proceeded fairly, and it contained facts and
                                figures showing that frauds had been perpetrated on the Treasury of
                                the State. If the report was to be suppressed, all the time and
                                money spent in this investigation would be worse than thrown
                                away.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush. Republicans and Democrats were on the committee
                                making this report, and all consenting to it, &c.
                            Mr.DAVIS. Most of this money had been paid by direction of the
                                Attorney General, and it would be useless to refer the matter again
                                to that officer for examination. He would be in favor of making the
                                resolution mandatory in the direction to bring suit, &c., and
                                hoped it go to the committee.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. The charge of covering up came with a bad grace from
                                the gentleman from Elkhart, because it involved the operations of
                                one Erasmus B. Collins, who is no Democrat. It was a singular
                                compliment to the Republican majority of the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary. The secret of opposition was the desire
                                to print the report as an electioneering document.
                            If these men had drawn money in violation of law, let it be
                                pronounced upon by the only committee of the House competent to do
                                so. He knew one of these gentlemen, Colonel McClure, who was the
                                very soul of honor, &c.
                            Mr. RYNERSON spoke at length the proposition to refer to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr. Speaker GORDON (Mr. Blythe in Chair) read the rule creating the
                                Committee on Public Expenditures, to show that they had not
                                transcended their duty in reporting on the law as well as the facts
                                in the case.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, spoke also against repressing this report.
                                There is no principle involved - no question of law - requiring that
                                the report should go to the Judiciary Committee,
                                &c.

                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. HALL, of Rush, desired something practical to result here, and
                                not chat this report should fail by the negligence of committees,
                                &c.
                            Mr. DOBBINS demanded the previous question, and under its force the
                                joint resolution was referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee; and the report also. The instructions were
                                also adopted.
                            Mr. CAVINS moved to reconsider the vote referring the report to the
                                committee.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS moved to lay that motion on the table - and the vote
                                resulted - yeas 41, nays 43 - as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. - Messrs. Balrd, Bowman, Carr,
                                            ClaypooI, Clayton, Clements, Colgrove, Collier, Davis,
                                            Dobbins, Dougherty, Durham, Early, Eastham, Jones,
                                            Jordan, Keefer, Kelly, Knowlton, Lawhead, Lewis, McLain,
                                            Major, Massey, Manfield, Nelson, Parrett, Presser,
                                            Shockley, Bull, Snyder, Stanley, Sullivan, Summers,
                                            Tebbs, Thompson of Madison, Turpie, Usrey, Waterman,
                                            Wheeler and Wood. - 41. 
                                        NAYS - Messrs, Austin, Boyd,Boxley,
                                            Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark, Comstock, Cotton,
                                            Edwards, Fordyce, Gifford, Gregory, Hall of Grant, Hall
                                            of Rush, Hamilton of Boone, Harrison, Hunter, Jeffries,
                                            Johnsron, Mansfield, Mellett, Miller, Murray, Martin,
                                            Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren. Parks, Hitter,
                                            Robinson, Row, Rynerson, Soott, Sherman. Shields, Smith
                                            of Miami, Smith of Perry, Stiles, Thompson of Elkhart,
                                            Treadway, Whetzel, Wildman and Mr. Speaker - 43.
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the motion was not laid on the table: and then the vote referring
                                the report to the committee was reconsidered, and the question
                                recurred on the reference.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved to lay the motion to refer the report on the table -
                                the vote resulting yeas 48, nays 42.
                            So the motion was laid on the table, and the report was not; referred
                                to the Judiciary Committee.
                            
                            Mr. MURRAY moved to lay the report on the table and print 1,000
                                copies of the report.
                             Mr. HARNEY demanded a division of the question.
                            The report was laid on the table; and on the other branch of the
                                question - 
                            Mr. HARNEY said it was the duty of the committee to examine and
                                report facts; but the opinion of the committee, and the facts, were
                                distinct. If the House print, they indorse the opinion of the
                                committee that those officers are guilty of peculation, whereas the
                                facts only show that the laws and the financial system of the State
                                are defective. He was not willing to thus indorse the report.
                            Mr. TURPIE (to the Chairman reporting.) Did the gentleman or any
                                member of the committee examine these offices and accounts? If not,
                                who did? and was the examiner under oath?
                            The SPEAKER. The interrogatories are out of order, but may be
                                answered by unanimous consent.
                            Mr. RITTER. The whole committee, with our clerk, examined the books
                                in the Secretary's office. The clerk of the present Secretary of
                                State pointed out many things - such as 1,900 swamp land
                                certificates duplicated in one book. We have not been smelling in
                                the dark, as gentlemen insinuate.
                            Mr. TURPIE. Was the clerk under oath?
                            Mr. RITTER. No.
                            Mr. TURPIE. Who was he?
                            Mr. RITTER. Mr. BOLLMAN; and he proceeded to defend the report and
                                the action of the committee.
                            Mr. DOBBINS made the point that it was not in order to consider the
                                report on a motion to print.
                            Mr. TURPIE. There had been examination of the books, but not the
                                vouchers. The gentleman's admissions put it beyond doubt that the
                                House ought not to print this report.
                            The SPEAKER ruled this debate out of order.
                            Mr. TURPIE demanded the yeas and nays, and the vote stood - yeas 49,
                                nays 44:
                            So the printing was ordered.
                            Mr. KNOWLTON desired (out of order,) to amend the motion to print, so
                                as to include the opinions of the Attorney General under which these
                                moneys were drawn by the said Secretaries of State.
                            Mr. SHERMAN, from a majority of the select committee thereon,
                                returned Mr Early's bill (72), to amend sections 1 and 2 of the act
                                of March 1, 1853, providing for the compensation to the owners of
                                animals killed by railroads, and providing for the manner of serving
                                process, recommending passage with the amendment striking out the
                                words "at any time."
                            The amendment was adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            On motion by Mr. COLGROVE, his bill (130) authorizing county boards
                                to abolish road distracts in towns, &c., was taken up and
                                referred to a select committee of three, with instructions to amend
                                so ns to make it obligatory on the Supervisors "to be governed in
                                their improvement of all roads within the limits of incorporated
                                towns, by the town council."
                            On motion by Mr. HUNTER, the committee's bill (247),for the
                                enlargement of the Penitentiary, was taken up and made the special
                                order for to-morrow, ten o'clock.
                            On motion by Mr. HUNTER, the House took up the township business bill
                                (S. 145) - unfinished at the time of the recess - the question being
                                on the adoption of Mr. Hamilton of Boone's substitute lor the 14th
                                section. The substitute was rejected.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY proposed to add:
                            Provided that when only part of a day has been occuocupied, he shall
                                be entitled to pay accordingly.
                            It was adopted by consent.
                            Mr. PROSSER proposed $1 a day for the Trustee, instead of $1 50.
                            Mr. RYNERSON. A good government was better than a cheap one,
                            Mr. HALL of Rush, proposed $1 25; which was rejected.
                            Mr. SHULL proprosed to add:
                            Provided that a township not exceeding three hundred polls, he shall
                                be allowed only in proportion to the time spent.
                            Mr. PROSSER'S amendment was rejected yeas 40, nays 47.
                            On motion by Mr. DOGHERTY section 16 was stricken out.
                            On motion by Mr. HUNTER, the word "suits," was inserted in place of
                                the word " prosecutions," in the 17th section.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Wayne, proposed to insert the words "through
                                negligence," in the 18th section.
                            Mr. MELLETT proposed, "neglect or refuse."
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone. The word "fail" covers the whole ground.
                                Better not disturb it.
                            Mr. MELLETT'S was adopted, and then the amendment as amended was
                                rejected.
                            Mr. HUNTER proposed to amend the bill by adding a section to this
                                effect:"
                            
                                Sec. 18. All proceedings now pending before
                                    the Board of Township Trustees, in reference to laying out and
                                    creating highways, shall be transferred to the Board of
                                    Commissioners of the proper county, which shall have
                                    jurisdiction thereof," &c.
                            
                            Mr. WHETZEL proposed to amend the bill further, by substituting his
                                bill No. 87.
                            The SPEAKER ruled this proposition out of order.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS proposed an additional section to this effect:
                            The offices of township treasurer and township clerk are hereby
                                abolished, after the election and qualification of the trustee
                                hereby provided; and it shall be the duty of such treasurer and
                                clerk of each township, to deliver to such trustee all the books,
                                papers and property belonging to such township.
                            It was adopted.
                            Mr. HUNTER proposed to add a resolution:
                            The township trustee shall hold regular meeting for the transaction
                                of business, on the second Monday in April, 1859, and on the [2?]d
                                Monday of every other month thereafter, at his ordinary place of
                                doing business, and on such, days he shall keep open his office from
                                9 A. M., till 4 P. M., and then and there transact his official
                                business in this act prescribed, except his duties prescribed in the
                                7th and 8th sections, as fence-viewer, overseer of the poor,
                                &c., which duties may be attended to on one day in the year;  and all his duties as
                                fence-viewer and overseer of the poor shall be paid for by the
                                parties causing the same to be done.
                            Mr. BOYD inquired how it could be that one trustee could hold regular
                                meetings. [Laughter.]
                            Mr. HUNTER. Well "sessions."
                            Mr. DAVIS opposed this.
                            On the motion of Mr. HARNEY, Mr. Hunter's amendment was laid on the
                                table - yeas 54, nays 33.
                            Mr. HARRISON called attention to a mis-statement of the provisions of
                                the bill in the Sentinel's report of Mr. Scott,
                                yesterday, that the bill authorizes the trustee to act as a justice
                                of the peace.
                            Mr. SCOTT. I held in my hand the printed bill of the Senate, and was
                                not aware that the Senate had stricken out that part.
                            Mr. KEEFER proposed to add:
                            On the second Monday in August and October, and the last Saturday in
                                February of each year the trustee shall be in his usual place of
                                business for the transaction of township business, and if, in his
                                opinion, the public interest demand it, he may hold one meeting in
                                each of the other months.
                            It was rejected.
                            Mr. PARRETT submitted the following, which, when in order, he desired
                                to offer as a substitute for the additional section of the bill
                                proposed by Mr. Hunter and adopted by the House, viz:
                            SEC. 18. The Township Trustee shall, in no case,
                                have any power to change, vacate or open any highway in any township
                                or in any county, but such power shall be vested in the County
                                Commissioners of the county, under the same regulations as to
                                petition, notice, appointment of viewers and assessment of damages
                                as now provided by law in cases affecting more than one township;
                                and all business now pending before any Board of Township Trustees
                                in relation to changing, vacating or opening highways shall be
                                transferred to the Board of County Commissioners of the proper
                                county.
                            The SPEAKER. The House has just adopted the matter of that
                                section.
                            On motion by Mr. CLEMENTS, the vote adopting Mr. Hunter's matter was
                                reconsidered; and then Mr. Parrett's substitute, as above, was
                                adopted as an amendment in its place.
                            Mr. SULLIVAN moved, ineffectually, to reconsider the vote adopting
                                sec. 6.
                            Mr. DURHAM proposed to add:
                            SEC. - This act shall in no wise be so construed
                                as to give power to the trustee to locate school-houses.
                            It was rejected.
                            Mr. PROSSER moved that the amendments be considered as engrossed, and
                                the bill put upon its final passage.
                            Mr. HUNTER declared the bill still so imperfect, that he should vote
                                for it under protest.
                            Messrs. HARNEY and CLEMENTS demanded the previous question, and under
                                the force thereof, the bill was ordered to the third reading - yeas
                                53, nays 39.
                            Mr. BOYD was opposed to the existing township system to any township
                                system without authority to assess taxes, &c., but for fear
                                nothing better could be got, he was diposed to vote for this bill.
                                He wanted no township system but for school purposes.
                            The vote on the final passage was reported yeas 51, nays 38 - as
                                follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        AYES - Messrs. Baird, Blytbe, Bowman,
                                            Boyd Branham, Brotherton, Carr, Cavins, Claypool,
                                            Clements, Collier, Davis, Dobbins, Dougherty, Devol,
                                            Early, Edwards, Fordyce, Gregory, Griffin, Hall of
                                            Grant, Hamilton of Boone, Harney, Harrison, Hartley,
                                            Hunter, Jordon, Keefer, Lawhead, Lewis, mansfield,
                                            mellett, Merrifield, Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion,
                                            Nelson, Parks, Parrettt, Prosser, Robinson, Row,
                                            Shields, Shockley, Smith of Miami, Smith of Perry,
                                            Stiles, Sullivan, Summers, Usrey, Wood, and Mr.
                                            Speaker-51.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Boxley, Clark,
                                            Clayton, Comstock, Cotton, Durham, Gifford, Hall of
                                            Rush, Hamilton of Wayne, Jeffries, Johnston, Jones,
                                            Kelley, Knowlton, McLean, Major, Massey, Miller, Murray,
                                            Nebeker of Warren, Newton, Power, Scott, Sherman, Shull,
                                            Snyder, Stanley, Tebbs, Thompson of Elkhart, Tompson of
                                            Madison, Treadway, Turpie, Waterman, Wheeler, Whetzel,
                                            Whiteman, and Wildman - 38.
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the bill passed the House of Representatives.

                            
                                JURIES FROM THE BY-STANDERS.
                                 A message from the Senate, by Mr. Senator Slack, announced the
                                    passage in that body of the bill [S. 220] authorizing the
                                    Circuit and Common Pleas Courts to empannel traverse juries from
                                    the by-standers, in all cases where the proper officers have
                                    failed or refuse to discharge that duty, - asking the
                                    concurrence of the House of Representatives.
                                On motion by Mr. KNOWLTON, the bill was taken up, and, under a
                                    dispensation of the rules, it was read twice, ordered to the
                                    third reading, read the third time and passed the House of
                                    Representatives - yeas 80, nays 0.
                                Mr. BRANHAM moved a suspension of the order of business, to
                                    enable him to move to make the finance bills [Nos. 192, 193,
                                    194, 195], and make their consideration the special order for
                                    to-morrow, two o'clock.
                                Messrs. TURPIE and SULLIVAN demanded the yeas and nays, which
                                    resulted - yeas 41, nays 31 - and then the order was made
                                    accordingly.
                                Mr. GRIFFIN submitted the following, which lies over:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That bills upon three
                                                several readings shall be read first, and in the
                                                order in which they are placed on the file; and no
                                                officer of the House shall prefer one measure to the
                                                prejudice or delay of others. The same rule shall be
                                                adhered to as to bills on the third reeading.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                 On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, [under a dispensation] the
                                    bill [143] legalizing the lists of assessments and appraisements
                                    in cities, under the act of 1857, was taken up, considered and
                                    passed the final reading in the House of Representatives - yeas
                                    70, nays 0.
                                Mr. BOYD, [under a dispensation,] submitted the following, which
                                    lies over as a notice to amend the rules:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That no member shall
                                                hereafter be allowed to speak, in any case, longer
                                                than ten minutes at one time, during the remainder
                                                of this session.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                The House then, at 5:20 o'clock, adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1859. 
                        
                         On motion by Mr. GREEN, the reading of the journal was dispensed
                            with.
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                             Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Wagner's bill (59) without recommendation. The bill was ordered
                                to be engrossed.
                            
                            Mr. HENDRY, from the same committee, returned the bill (H. R. 70)
                                recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. CONNER, from a select committee, returned his bill (146) with
                                amendments, recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the bill (S. 145) to provide for a more
                                uniform mode of doing township business, was taken from the table -
                                yeas 24, nays 10 - for the purpose of considering the House
                                amendments thereto.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved that the bill and House amendments be referred to a
                                select committee of five.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to amend the motion so as to refer them to the
                                    Committee on County and Township
                                Business.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the amendment was laid upon the table -
                                yeas 25, nays 12.
                            The bill and amendments were then referred to Senators Heffren,
                                Shoemaker, Tarkington, Wagner and Anthony.
                            The following bills were introduced and severally passed the first
                                reading:
                            Mr. WEIR, by Mr. Hendry, (225) to compel the Bank of the State,
                                authorized to do a general banking business, to pay deposits
                                received by them in the transaction of a banking business,and
                                providing penalties for failure to pay the same.
                            By Mr. CARNAHAN, (226) supplemental to an act for the incorporation
                                of high schools, approved May 13,1852.
                            [On motion by Mr. LOMAX, his bill (205) was taken up, read the second
                                time, and referred to a committee of three.]
                            By Mr. MARCH, (227) to amend section 51 of an act defining
                                misdemeanors, approved June 14, 1852.
                            Mr. SHOEMAKER, by leave, returned the bill (H. R. 210) to create the
                                15th Judicial Circuit, with an amendment, recommending its
                                passage.
                            On motion by Mr. SHOEMAKER, the bill was read the third time, and
                                finally passed the Senate by yeas 38, nays 2.
                            Mr. JENNINGS, by leave, from a select committee, returned his joint
                                resolution on the subject of the African slave trade and
                                colonization, with an amendment to the preamble, recommending its
                                passage.
                            Mr. BOBBS hoped the joint resolution would not pass. He believed this
                                colonization society was an expense to the commonwealth greatly
                                disproportionate to the amount of service rendered, and he was
                                opposed to it.
                            Mr. WALLACE hoped the resolution would pass, and should vote to
                                sustain it.
                            Mr. CRAVEN moved to postpone this resolution till the session of
                                Monday night.
                            Mr. MARCH did not know but that he might vote for the resolution, but
                                he was in favor of postponing it for the purpose of giving time for
                                examination.
                            Mr. HEFFREN had no objection to the postponement if gentlemen wanted
                                time to examine the resolution.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            By Mr. SLACK (228) to repeal section 51 of an act defining
                                misdemeanors approved June 14, 1852.
                            By Mr. SLACK, (229) to provide for the infliction of punishment where
                                more than one conviction has been had against the same person at one
                                term of court for a violation of the criminal laws thereof.
                            By Mr. SHOEMAKER, (230) to dispense with selecting and summoning of
                                jurors for the Court of Common Pleas where the business does not
                                require it.
                            By Mr. KINLEY, (231) a bill to provide for a general system of Common
                                Schools, &c.
                            On motion by Mr. KINLEY, the rules were suspended and the bill read
                                by title only the first and second times, laid on the table and 300
                                copies ordered to be printed.
                            By Mr. TARKINGTON, (232) to amend section 19 of chapter 1 of a law
                                reform act, approved June 18, 1852.
                            By Mr. SHOEMAKER, (233) to regulate the fees of officers.
                            On motion by Mr. SHOEMAKER, the rules were suspended, the bill read
                                by title only the first and second times and referred to the
                                    Committee on Finance.
                            By Mr. HILL. (234) to prevent betting on elections.
                            By Mr. WIER, per Mr. Hendry, (235) to compel the
                                Bank ot the State of Indiana to redeem their notes on the
                                presentation thereof.
                            By Mr. MARCH, (236) to provide for an equal distribution of property
                                assigned for the benefit of creditors.
                            Mr. CONLEY, by leave, offered the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That hereafter no Senator
                                            shall speak longer than 10 minutes on any subject under
                                            consideration; and in no case shall a Senator speak
                                            twice on any subject except by express provision of the
                                            Senate.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. WALLACE made an ineffectual motion to lay the resolution on the
                                table.
                            Mr. MARCH moved to amend the resolution oy inserting the words "more
                                than" in the proper place.
                            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the latter part of the resolution was
                                stricken out.
                            Mr. CONNER moved to amend by adding the words "except by permission
                                of a majority of the Senate."
                            Mr. BENNETT objected to the amendment.
                            Mr. WAGNER offered a substitute as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,That Senators shall not speak
                                            longer than ten minutes at any one time, without
                                            unanimous consent, except at the night sessions.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion of Mr. GREEN the substitute was laid on the table.
                            Mr. STEELE moved to amend by inserting the words, "except by the
                                unanimous consent of the Senate."
                            Mr. CONLEY accepted the amendment.
                            Mr. BLAIR moved the previous question, and there being a second,
                                under its operation, Mr. Conner's amendment was rejected.
                            The resolution, as amended, was then adopted.
                        
                        
                            UNIFORM MODE OF DOING TOWNSHIP BUSINESS.
                            Mr. HEFFREN, by leave, from the select committee thereon, returned
                                the bill [165] recommending the adoption of the engrossed  amendments of the House of
                                Representatives thereto.
                            The report was concurred in, and the amendments adopted.
                            The bill was read through the third time.
                            Mr. MARCH said there was one feature in the bill in which he could
                                not concur, and that he believed would cause general dissatifaction.
                                The bill puts the power of assessing township taxes with the County
                                Commissioners - the trustee is a mere cypher in this matter. This
                                was contrary to his notions of popular governments. In nine cases
                                out of ten the County Commissioners know but very little of the
                                wants of the different townships, and he insisted that this tax
                                should be assessed by the voice of the township, speaking through
                                their trustee. He would much prefer the three trustee system.
                            Mr. BOBBS. I have objections to this bill in its present form. We
                                should have preferred the retention of the three trustees, and the
                                abolishing the offices of township clerk and treasurer, which are
                                the great item of expense in the present system. We believe the
                                committee who have reported the bill think it will be an improvement
                                on the existing law; but we object to the large discretion given to
                                one man in the transaction of township business, as contemplated in
                                this bill, and hoped to see the amendment proposed by the Senator
                                from Union (Mr. Bennett) adopted, which would have avoided the
                                expense incurred in the present system without placing so much power
                                in the hands of one man. But the Senate could not be brought to
                                approve that, and leaves only the choice between that proposed in
                                this bill and the present one; and as my constituents demand some
                                change by which the expense of the latter may be avoided, I will
                                vote for the bill as the best which I can see any chance to have
                                adopted. The reasons which recommend this bill to the smaller
                                townships of the State, are those which render it objectionable to
                                the larger and more populous ones, where too much discretion is
                                allowed by the bill to one man. But as we must have the same law for
                                all parts of the State, and I can not get this bill in the shape in
                                which I should prefer to have it, I must take it as it is, and
                                shall, therefore, support it.
                            Mr. GOODING did not think this bill perfect, yet it was preferable to
                                the old system; so he thought his constituents would regard it, and
                                consequently he should vote for it.
                            Mr. HENDRY said the people in the northern part of the State were
                                opposed to the one-man power. He regarded the bill as a step
                                backward, and thought this Legislature was as competent to assess
                                taxes for the townships as the Boards of County Commissioners.
                            Mr. BROWN. The gentleman says the northern part of the State are
                                opposed to this one man power. Now I live up there among the
                                cranberry marshes and huckleberry marshes, and I know that my people
                                in St. Joseph and Marshall, are in favor of this reform; and have
                                instructed me to go for it. They are willing even to strike out the
                                three, and have bet one county Commissioner. They say that one
                                county Commissioner will do as well as one Common Pleas Judge, or
                                one Circuit Judge. Our county Auditor,who has been in office ten
                                years, says the business could be done by one Commissioner as cheap
                                again as by three. The Senator just speaking may live up towards the
                                Ohio or Michigan line somewhere, but where Lake Michigan comes down
                                into this State, we are in favor of this reform. We would save at
                                least $80,000 to this State by it, and if that aint a little forward
                                step I don't know what is. [Laughter.]
                            Mr. SLACK insisted that the expense under the system proposed by the
                                bill, would be five fold greater that the amount of taxes assessed
                                against the people. This is a step back and he had no doubt the
                                people would up at the next session and demand in thunder tones a
                                repeal of this law. He would be willing to cut off the Township
                                Treasurer and Clerk, but could not sustain this bill.
                            Mr. HEFFREN thought ninety-nine out of every hundred in the southern
                                part of the State would hail this measure with as much joy as the
                                Continental army hailed the Declaration of Independence, when it
                                first came from Independence Hall. [Laughter.] He was in favor of
                                the passage of the bill.
                            Mr. MILLER expressed himself as in favor of the bill, and declared
                                his intention to vote for it.
                            Mr. CULVER expected to vote against this bill He was opposed to
                                tearing down long-tried systems, and should fight this measure to
                                the last.
                            Mr. STEELE had voted against the bill heretofore, but should now vote
                                for it. He thought a majority of the people would prefer three
                                Trustees, but regarded this bill as a compromise, and as preferable
                                to the old system. He should vote for it at, any rate.
                            Mr. RICE thought the law might be pruned. He was opposed to taking
                                the business from the townships and giving it up to the county
                                commissioners and opposed to consolidating the townships with the
                                county board. We have had this system for years, and he was opposed
                                to giving it up.
                            Mr. GREEN. I see the Reporter is taking down these speeches, and I
                                want to set myself right before my constituents. I am opposed to the
                                whole concern, but I shall vote for this bill, however. I deem it
                                better than the old law, and there will be a little saving in
                                it.
                            Mr. ROBINSON thought the old system of doing township business made
                                5,000 officers, and now we propose to cut off all except one in each
                                township, making in all only about 900. He thought the business
                                would be better transacted by this than under the old system, and
                                would like to lop off these extra officers.
                            The bill was then finally passed the Senate by yeas 31, nays 15 as
                                follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Bobbs, Brown, Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Cravens,
                                            Gooding, Green, Hargrove, Heffren., Jennings, Johnston,
                                            Loruax, McLean, McClure, Miller, Murray, Odell,
                                            Robinson, Shoemaker, Steele, Stevens, Tarkington.
                                            Turner, Wagner, Wallace, Williams and Wilson - 31.
                                        NAYS - Messrs Blair, Conner, Cooper,
                                            Craven, Culver, Fisk, Hendry, Hill, Kinley, Line, March,
                                            O'Brien, Rice, Slack and Thompson - 15.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. STEVENS, when his name was called, obtained consent of the Senate
                                to hand an explanation of his vote to the Reporter for publica-
                        



                    
                    
                
                
                
                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 23, 1859.
                        No. 14.
                    
                    
                        
                            tion "Legslative Reports" The explanation is as follows:
                            Mr. PRESIDENT - I intend voting for the bill now
                                on its passage, but when I do so I am not voting my sentiments. I am
                                convinced that the people desire a change from the present system,
                                and believing the one contained in the bill the only one that can be
                                made at the present session, I vote for it, in preference to leaving
                                the law as it now stands. I have, by my vote, and in every other
                                honorable way during the progress of the Township question, favored
                                a change to three trustees for each township abolishing the offices
                                of treasurer and clerk, and requiring one of the trustees to act as
                                President of the board, one as treasurer, one as clerk, and to limit
                                their meetings to once in three months. Such a change would reduce
                                the expense more than one half from the old system, and give the
                                various localities of the townships a fair representation. But from
                                the indications in both Houses, the one trustee system seems to have
                                the greatest number of friends; therefore I am willing to acquiesce
                                in the expressed will, hoping the provisions of the bill will meet
                                the expectations of its friends, and be popular with the people, and
                                reduce largely the expense as compared with the old system.
                            Mr. LINE, by leave, introduced a resolution giving to the Indiana
                                Historical Society $300 to aid it in collecting information in
                                connection therewith.
                            Mr. WALLACE was apposed to the $300 appropriation. If the amount was
                                anything of importance he should vote for it, but as the entire
                                scheme was impracticable at this time, he should oppose it.
                            Mr. STEVENS was in favor of she resolution, and proud of the State of
                                Indiana.
                            Mr. MURRAY hoped the resolution would be adopted.
                            Mr. ANTHONY felt proud of his native State, and desired the passage
                                of the resolution.
                            Mr. BOBBS hoped the measure would pass. 
                            Mr. STEELE expressed himself in favor of the resolution.
                            Mr. HEFFREN was in favor of the resolution.
                            Mr. BROWN offered an amendment, as follows:
                            Strikeout "$300" and insert "$500."
                            Mr. CONNER. I hope the resolution of the Senator from Franklin will
                                be adopted, at least, if the amendment of the Senator from Marshall
                                is not adopted, but I am in favor of the resolution with the
                                proposed amendment. I understand that assurances have been given by
                                Mr. Fletcher, of this city, that one of the roams in the old State
                                Bank building will be set apart for the use of the Society, free of
                                charge, if some encouragement will be extended by the State to the
                                Society. The object of the small appropriation now asked for, is to
                                pay for the services of the Secretary of the Society, in taking
                                charge of such books,"records, manuscripts and materials as have
                                been collected by the Society already, and to collect and preserve
                                such additions by contributions and otherwise as he may be able to
                                collect. I understand that Mr. Dillon has heretofore been the
                                Secretary of the Society, and will continue to be. Mr. Dillon, as
                                you all know, is eminently qualified for that service. He has been
                                engaged for years in preparing and publishing the history of
                                Indiana, and I am sorry to say that no aid has ever been extended by
                                the State to that worthy enterprise. I had the pleasure of being
                                present at a meeting of the Society, a short time since, in this
                                Chamber; the statements made on that occasion by Judge Law,
                                convinced me of the great propriety of making a small
                                appropriation.
                            Mr. BENNETT would vote for this resolution with pleasure. He was a
                                native of the State and wanted to see the old documents gathered up
                                and published.
                            Mr. MARCH thought this was a small pittance and he was in favor of
                                granting it
                            Mr. WALLACE thought the best way to secure the passage of the
                                resolution was to make the remarks he did when first up, and
                                appealed to the Senator who sat next to him, if he did not so avow
                                himself before he rose to his feet.
                            Mr. BROWN [interrupting] said that such was the fact.
                            Mr. WALLACE then continued in a few remarks to sustain the
                                resolution.
                            The amendment was adopted.
                            The resolution was adopted by yeas 40, nays 4.
                            And then the Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. LOMAX, by consent, returned from a select committee, his bill
                                [205] recommending its passage.
                            The report and bill were laid on the table to wait till a quorum
                                should appear.
                            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the following House bills were passed the
                                first reading: the bills H. R. 142, 249, 201 and 143. 
                            
                            The following Senate bills were read the second time:
                            Mr. Anthony's [204]: ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Cobb's [206]: referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                            A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of
                                Mr. Slack's bill [220] allowing Sheriffs of Circuit or Common Pleas
                                Courts to empannel traverse juries from bystanders, when the proper
                                officers have failed or refused to discharge that duty.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, Mr. Lomax's bill [205] was taken from the
                                table and referred again to the select committee, from which it was
                                reported.
                            Mr. WAGNER, by leave, from the Committee on
                                    Education, returned the bill [H. R. 59] to extend to
                                borrowers of State funds, time for payment, &c., with
                                amendments, recommending its passage. The report was concurred
                                in.
                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the bill was read the third time, and passed
                                the Senate by yeas 35, nays 7.

                            
                                THE CALENDAR.
                                 The following bills were read the third time:
                                Mr. Carnahan's [38] to enable industrious, indigent persons, who
                                    are unable to give security, to rent land.
                                Mr. CARNAHAN explained the provisions of his bill.
                                Mr. MURRAY objected to its passage. Did not believe it was either
                                    constitutional or expedient.
                                Mr. WAGNER could see no objections to the bill. It would do
                                    injustice to no man.
                                Mr. HAMILTON hoped the bill would pass, for he believed it would
                                    be beneficial to the poor man.
                                Mr. GREEN should vote for the bill.
                                The bill was then passed - yeas 28, nays 11.
                                The Committee on Benevolent Institutions,
                                    [203] to provide for the election of Trustees and Commissioners
                                    of the Benevolent institutions of the State.
                                Mr. HEFFREN moved to recommit the bill, with instructions to
                                    amend so as to require three trustees to each asylum or
                                    hospital, and to strike out all that part of the bill which
                                    refers to a President.
                                Mr. CRAVENS [Mr. Wanner in the Chair,] could see no necessity for
                                    recommitment. The Committee on Benevolent Institutions, had
                                    reported the bill as it was, and if recommitted, would again
                                    report it as it is. If the instructions were adopted, he could
                                    vet see no necessity to recommit the bill, for it could be
                                    perfected in the Senate without going back to the committee.
                                Mr. HEFFREN replied in support of his amendment. He could not
                                    vote for the bill as it is now, though he might do so as a dernier resort were his proposition rejected,
                                    &c.
                                Mr. MURRAY was opposed to the motion to recommit, and hoped the
                                    bill would be put upon its pessage.
                                Mr. SLACK was also opposed to recommiting the bill with the
                                    instructions proposed. The people were well enough satisfied
                                    with the present workings of these institutions; and he was
                                    opposed to the entire proposition to change the present system.
                                    Let well enough alone.
                                Mr. HAMILTON expressed himself as opposed to the motion to
                                    recommit.
                                Mr. BOBBS moved to amend by providing that the Trustee shall
                                    receive no compensation except for traveling expenses.
                                Mr. LINE moved to lay the motion to recommit on the table.
                                Mr. BOBBS withdrew his amendment.
                                The motion was rejected - yeas 27, nays 17.
                                The bill was then passed - yeas 29, nays 17 - as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS. - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                                Bennett, Blair, Bobbs, Conley, Conner, Cooper,
                                                Cravens, Craven, Green, Hamilton, Hargrove, Hendry,
                                                Hill, Johnston, Kinley, Line, March, Murray, Odell,
                                                Robinson, Steele, Stevens, Tarkington, Thompson,
                                                Turner, Williams, and Wilson - 29.
                                            NAYS. - Messrs. Brown, Carnahan,
                                                Cobb, Culver, Fisk, Gooding, Heffren, Jennings,
                                                Lomax, McClure, McLean, O'Brien, Shoemaker, Slack,
                                                Studabaker, Wagner, and Wallace.-17. 
                                        
                                    
                                
                                 Mr. Lomax's [39], to amend an act provide for the election of
                                    Clerks of the Circuit Courts and prescribing their duties,
                                    approved June 7, 1852.
                                Mr. LOMAX explained the provisions of his bill.
                                Mr. MURRAY, by unanimous consent, amended the bill as
                                    follows:
                                Provided, That the County treasurers shall pay
                                    overthe same to persons entitled thereto, upon the order
                                    ocertificate of the clerk. 
                                The bill was then passed yeas 36, nays 6.
                                Mr. Conner's [40], to amend section 151 of the valuation and
                                    assessment law, approved June 21,1852.
                                The bill was passed by yeas 40, nays 2.
                                Mr. Cravens' [44], to change the time for the election of members
                                    of Congress.
                                Mr. WILLIAMS expressed himself as opposed to the bill.
                                Mr HEFFREN said that at the special session he had voted for such
                                    a bill as this, but now he was satisfied his constituents were
                                    opposed to it - no petition had come up here asking for it - and
                                    consequently he should vote against it.
                                Mr. CRAVENS [Mr. Wagner in the Chair] sustained the provisions of
                                    his bill.
                                Mr BENNETT was in favor of the passage of the bill. He was in
                                    favor of separating State and National politics as much as
                                    possible.
                                Mr. HENDRY did not favor the bill.
                                Mr. GOODING thought the election for Congressmen and President
                                    should be had at different times. He could see no objection to
                                    the bill and hoped it would pass.
                                The bill then failed - yeas 16, nays 27.
                                Mr. COOPER'S [45], to provide compensation to owners of animals
                                    killed or injured by the cars, locomotives or carriages of any
                                    railroad company in this State.
                                Mr. CONNER moved to recommit the bill with instructions to strike
                                    out from the 6th line after the word "owners" all that follows
                                    to the word "but" in the 9th line, and to insert the words "the
                                    owners thereof shall have his or her right of action against
                                    said company for two-thirds of the value of such property killed
                                    or injured, without regard to the question whether such injury
                                    or destruction was the result of wil ful misconduct or negligence or
                                    intentional carelessness."
                                Mr. GREEN proposed to amend by striking out the third
                                    section.
                                Mr. MURRAY could see no necessity for the recommitment, and spoke
                                    a few minutes against the principle which would deal as with an
                                    iron hand whenever corporations are a party to a measure before
                                    the General Assembly.
                                Mr. MARCH hoped the bill would be recomitted. He insisted that
                                    Railroad companies should be liable far the full amount of
                                    injury s resulting from their carelessness.
                                Mr. WALLACE. I believe the question is upon the recommitment of
                                    the bill. One word only. The Senator from Delaware [Mr. March]
                                    suits me in one respect, if in no other. Whenever an issue is
                                    formed here between a great, overgrown, big bellied corporation,
                                    and an individual citizen, he gives proof of his nature, and his
                                    fitness to be a freeman, by taking sides with the citizen. This
                                    bill presents such an issue. I look at it in this way. If the
                                    citizen is entitled, as against; the Railroad company, to one
                                    cent for his stock, why is he not entitled to its full value?
                                    Again, sir. It is agreed that if we by an act, make the
                                    companies liable to pay the value of stock killed on then roads,
                                    it will encourage persons living along the lines, to put their
                                    stock in a convenient way to be killed. I doubt not that in many
                                    instances this may prove true But we ought to look on both
                                    sides. Acting on that principle, it is my opinion that the law
                                    as it now stands has the effect to encourage engineers, who too
                                    frequently, are wholly irresponsible, in a recklessness, which,
                                    in ninety nine cases out of a hundred, is the true cause of
                                    accident to trains and death or injury to stock. Now, between
                                    these two evil consequences I am to choose. I do not hesitate. I
                                    vote for the citizen - for making the companies liable.
                                    Therefore, I am in favor of the recommitment.
                                Mr. BEESON moved as further instructions the following:
                                Provided, That said stock were on, or adjacent
                                    to the premises of their owner or owners, at the time of said
                                    killing.
                                Mr. CONNER was opposed to this amendment, because its object was
                                    to further screen the Railroad companies.
                                On motion by Mr. CRAVEN, the amendments proposed by Senators
                                    Beeson and Green, were laid on the table - yeas 36, nays 8.
                                On motion by Mr. CRAVEN the bill and instructions were referred
                                    to a select committee of five, viz: Senators Craven, Lomax,
                                    Cobb, March and Murray.
                                On motion by Mr. MURRAY,leave of absence was granted for
                                    to-night, to the Senate difficulty investigating committee.
                                On motion by Mr. BLAIR, his bill [174] fixing the time of holding
                                    the Court of Common Pleas, in Henrick's county, was read the
                                    third time and passed the Semteyeas43, nays 0.
                                And then the Senate took a recess till 7 o'clock.
                            
                        
                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.
                            The following Senate bills were considered on the second reading and
                                referred.
                            No. 6, to the Finance Committee.
                            No. 208, to the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business.
                            Mr. Blair's (213), Nos. 207, 209, 211; Mr. Slack's (218); Mr.
                                Wilson's (223); to the Judiciary Committee.
                            No. 185, ordered to be engrossed.
                            No. 210, to the Committee on Rights and
                                Privileges.
                            Mr. Conley's (216) and Mr. Turner's (221), to the Committee on Swamp
                                Lands.
                            Mr. Cravens' (215), to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.
                            Mr. O'Brien's (216), to the Committee on
                                Education.
                            Mr. Green's (226), to the Committee on Roads.
                            Mr. WAGNER, by leave, from the joint committee on a Geological Survey
                                of the State, reported a bill (S. 237), to authorize a geological
                                reconnoisanse of the State - appropriating $5,000 therefor.
                            Mr. CRAVENS, by leave, introduced a bill (238), for the better
                                protection of orchards, gardens and vineyards.
                            Which were passed the first reading.
                            The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate a
                                communication from the Auditor of State: which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Finance.
                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the vote of yesterday by which the bill (H.
                                R. 103) was indefinitely postponed was reconsidered: and the bill
                                laid on the table.
                            Mr. O'BRIEN, from a select committee thereon returned his bill (163)
                                recommending its passage. The report was concurred in and the bill
                                ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. ROBINSON, by leave, introduced a bill(239), to amend sec. 35 of
                                an act prescribing who may make a will, what may be devised, the
                                effect thereof, &c, approved May 31, 1852, which passed the
                                first reading.
                            Mr. MARCH, by leave, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned the bill () recommending its passage. The bill was ordered
                                to be engrossed.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN, by leave, from the Committee on
                                    Corporations, returned the bill () recommending its
                                passage. The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            The Senate adjourned.
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             FRIDAY, February 2, 1859. 
                        
                         Mr. BROTHERTON presented the petition of R F. Davis and others, citizens
                            of Delaware county, for relief of the securities of John C. Osborn;
                            which was referred to a select committee of five, viz: Messrs.
                            Brotherton, Dougherty, Prosser, Colgrove and Mellett.
                        Mr. MANSFIELD submitted the following:

                        
                            MONEY FOR THE SCHOOLS.
                            Mr. Speaker - The Committee on Education, to whom
                                was recommitted House bill No. 107, with instructions to amend the
                                second section by adding the following words:
                            "And shall divide the same pro rata, among the
                                several counties of the State. Such dividend shall be based upon the
                                preceding report of the Superintendent of Public Instruction, giving
                                to each county her distributive share in proportion to the number of
                                children lifted in such county"have had the same under
                                consideration, and  have
                                instructed me to report, that the proposed amendment is already
                                embodied in the 3d section of the bill, which prescribes "that this
                                money shall be apportioned 1 and paid out, as other school funds are
                                apportioned and paid out, for the support of Common Schools." And
                                since the committee do not believe that it was the intention of the
                                House to have the same provision inserted in two several sections of
                                the bill, they have considered it their duty not to make this
                                amendment, unless otherwise instructed.
                            But the committee, having had this bill again under consideration,
                                beg leave to say, that section 1 would become more definite and
                                precise, if amended by adding thereto the
                                following words :
                            "Subject to diminution, by the purchase of the so called bank bonds
                                before they become due, or by the liquidation of them after they
                                have matured."
                            The committee have further instructed me to say, that the
                                Commissioners of the Sinking Fund have thus far acted under the
                                charter of the bank, and under laws which were enacted in connection
                                with that charter during the last twenty five years.
                            That the validity of these laws has become doubtful since the
                                expiration of the charter of the bank; that the State expects and
                                the school interest requires that these commissioners should
                                continue their profitable investment of the fund, but that there is
                                no law which prescribes and sanctions that operation.
                            And lastly, I have been directed to say, that a bill, No. 92, has
                                been into educed in this House, which prohibits, under heavy
                                penalties, any State officer from investing the funds with which he
                                may be entrusted, unless sanctioned by a special law to that effect.
                                Should this bill become a law, it would shut up every dollar of
                                those three millions n the vaults of the Sinking Fund, to the great
                                detriment of the Common School interest.
                            The committee, therefore, respectfully suggest that this bill be further amended by inserting between the 4th and
                                5th sections the following two sections, and, when so amended,
                                recommend the passage of the bill:
                            "SEC. - . Any moneys that may be in the hands of
                                the Commissioners awaiting said distribution, or intended for the
                                purchase or redemption of bonds or for current use, may be deposited
                                at interest with one or more banks or banking houses of undoubted
                                responsibility and solvency, payable on call; but before making any
                                such deposits it shall be the duty of said Commissioners to take
                                bond in at least double the amount of the deposit, with good
                                security for the return of the deposit, with interest whenever
                                called for; said interest shall become part of the fund, and the
                                Commissioners chargeable with all sums so received."
                            SEC. - . All laws not inconsistent with this act,
                                in regard to the Sinking Fund, or giving powers to or prescribing
                                the duties of the Sinking Fund Commissioners, their officers,
                                clerks, agents and servants, or prescribing punishments against them
                                for malfeasance in office., that, were in force on the day preceding
                                the first day of January, 1859, are hereby declared to be in full
                                force, and to apply to the present Board of Sinking Fund
                                Commissioners and its officers, clerks, agents and servants; but all
                                such laws as are inconsistent with this act are hereby
                                repealed."
                            Mr. MANSFIELD. There is at present over three millions in the hands
                                of the Sinking Fund Commissioners, and it appears that there is no
                                law which enables these officers to invest that money. They have
                                acted formerly under the provisions of the charter of the old State
                                Bank. But that charter having expired, and there never having been
                                any special law authorizing them to invest this money in their hands
                                for the accumulation ol interest; yet the practice has sprung up,
                                for the interest of the State as well as the Common School Fund, and
                                we propose to continue the operation.
                            Some days previous to this, I made here some remarks on the
                                constitutionality of this bill. I then stated that it never had been
                                the intention of the framers of the charter of the State Bank, to
                                give any independent existence to this fund after that charter had
                                expired, and that there were great doubts whether this body actually
                                exists as an independent, well-defined body corporate or not. These
                                n mark attracted the attention of the Commissioners of the Sinking
                                Fund, and they, upon investigation, found that there is really no
                                law to enable them to discharge the functions demanded of them. The
                                    Committee on Education therefore suggest the
                                amendments in the report, giving to the Sinking Fund Commissioners
                                the power to continue their operations need not speak of the
                                necessity for this, and the absurdity of keeping three millions
                                unproductive in the vaults of this fund.
                            The bill of the gentleman from Randolph [119] and that of the
                                gentleman from DeKalb [107], both make the same provision - that
                                that portion of the Sinking Fund which is not needed for payment of
                                the interest on the bank bonds, shall be immediately applied to
                                school purposes. They both have that alike. But that of the
                                gentleman from Randolph has this in addition: It provides that seven
                                years hence the principal the Sinking Fund shall be divided out
                                among the several counties of the State for loan. Now, I have by no
                                means made up my mind as to what would be the most secure mode of
                                investing this Sinking Fund, The gentleman may be right, though, as
                                a general rule it is useless to legislate seven years in advance. It
                                is too much like counting chickens before they are hatched. There
                                will be three different Legislatures convened here before the end of
                                seven years, with all the strong propensities of our people to have
                                the management of their matters in their own way; and if they should
                                be disposed to divide this fund as the gentleman proposes, they will
                                do it any how; and if they should think otherwise they will just
                                wipe it out. Besides, there is a difference of opinion among
                                ourselves, and the committee are unwilling to let so important a
                                matter as the support of the schools depend upon, such a slight
                                consideration as the difference of opinion upon a subject not now in
                                hand, and they hope the bill will be allowed to pass at the earliest
                                moment. It is no bill of mine; but I believe it is of the greatest
                                importance, and my whole soul is bent upon the advancement of the
                                interests of the common schools.
                            There is a bill (No. 90) which prohibits any officer of the State
                                from investing any public funds in his hands; and this bill (and it
                                is a good one) would positively prohibit these Fund Commissioners
                                from investing this fund, and the probability of its passage makes a
                                necessity for the amendment we have reported, it is true that there
                                is another bill from the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means which contains a provision similar to that we
                                have offered, but it was introduced lately, and it being so near the
                                end of tht session, it is doubtful whether there is time to pass it.
                                Without the adoption of this, then, we might leave tbe Sinking Fund
                                in a bad condition; and even if that bill were to pass, it would not
                                interfere with this.
                            Mr. COLGROVE. The suggestions in the amendment were important. He was
                                prepared with a similar proposition, and he intended to apply it to
                                his bill, which be described. There was no law authorizing the
                                Sinking Fund Commissioners to deposits single dollar. The Board had
                                heretofore taken the responsibility of depositing in the city banks
                                - taking personal security; 
                                and they have thereby increased the fund some thirteen or fourteen
                                thousand dollars. He was disposed simply to authorize them to
                                continue to f what they have been doing, &c.
                            The report was concurred in, the amendments adopted, and the bill
                                ordered to be engrossed.
                            On motion by Mr. BOYD, the bill was considered as engrossed.
                            Mr. COLGROVE complained that the Committee on Education had
                                disregarded their instructions.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD explained as in the report.
                            Mr. COLGROVE was opposed to the bill. He rejected both to the
                                interest being applied to the redemption of the bank bonds and to
                                the surplus being paid into the State Treasury. The State system of
                                common schools had failed of its object, and fallen into disrepute,
                                for a want of good management, and especially for want of material
                                aid. Unless we come immediately to its support, it would go down.
                                There was power in the bands of the Fund Commissioners to
                                appropriate every dollar of the interest toward the redemption of
                                the bank bonds, and it depended on their judgment whether we get a
                                dollar of the interest for the schools. His bill prohibited them
                                from applying this interest toward the payment of the principal of
                                the bank bonds. Under his bill, the interest could be paid on the
                                bank bonds, and still leave $180,000 to be distributed amongst the
                                common schools. Their bill did the same, but it left with the
                                Commissioners the power to thwart this legislation.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD denied that there was any provision in the bill, that
                                the interest on the bonds shall be applied to the payment of the
                                principal of the bonds.
                            Mr. ROBINSON moved to pass over the subject informally.
                            Mr. BOYD objected to this staving off. He was at a loss to understand
                                the gentleman from Randolph. That gentleman had stated that he had
                                similar amendments to those adopted; and now those amendments were
                                adopted, he had declared himself opposed to the bill,&c
                            Mr. ROBINSON withdrew his motion.
                            Mr. COLGROVE proceeded, and submitted that he was not opposing the
                                bill because he did not like the amendments. The old regulations he
                                was in favor of, and in favor of authorizing deposits; but he was
                                opposed to any part of the interest going into the State Treasury,
                                and to the interest going to pay the principal of the bank bonds.
                                The surplus of interest, should not go into the State Treasury,
                                because the State had once wronged this fund. Before he had
                                concluded - 
                        

                        
                            THE STATE PRISON.
                            The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz: the consideration of
                                the committee's bill [247] for the enlargement of the State
                                Prison.
                            Mr. SHERMAN, on the part of the minority of the Committee on the
                                State Prison, submitted a report, reasoning at length for the
                                erection of a new prison at some point in the northern portion of
                                the State, and pointing out objections to the reasoning in the
                                report of the majority, and recommending that the majority of the
                                committee's bill be indefinitely postponed.
                            Mr. DOBBINS obtained leave to introduce, in connection with this
                                report, a bill (294) providing for the construction of a State
                                Prison in county, in this State, which was passed the first
                                reading.
                            Mr. SNYDER, from the select committee thereon, submitted a report in
                                writing, submitting a bill (295) to provide for the location and
                                erection of another State Prison north of the Wabash river,
                                providing appropriations therefor, making it a felony to violate
                                certain provisions thereof and punishment therefor, which was passed
                                the first reading; [authorizing the Prison Directors to contract,
                                with the approval of the Governor.]
                            Mr. EASTHAM introduced a bill (296) to provide for the extension of
                                the State Prison at Jeffersonville, which was passed the first
                                reading.
                            Mr. SCOTT submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the report of the
                                            standing committee, the report of the minority, and also
                                            the report of the special commitee on the resolution of
                                            the gentleman from Jasper, be referred to a special
                                            committee of nine, with instructions to report a bill
                                            providing for the erection of a prison at some point in
                                            the northern part of the State, with the member from
                                            Jasper as Chairman.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. SCOTT thereupon took the floor and spoke, as reported elsewhere
                                in this paper.
                            Mr. PROSSER sent up the following:
                            Amend the resolution of Mr. Scott, by striking out and inserting:
                                "That the financial condition of the State forbids the erection of a
                                new State Prison, if the same were otherwise desirable."
                            Mr, MURRAY defended the committee (not the Chairman) from the attack
                                ot the gentleman from Laporte. The committee determined not to make
                                up a decision till they returned to Indianapolis; but the Chairman
                                tailed to call the committee together. He read from an article in
                                the State Sentinel, apologising or explaining for
                                the agency of Mr. Director Buskirk in the getting up of the majority
                                report. This accounted for that report, which was the report of the
                                Directors, with the Chairman, more than it was the report ot the
                                Committee on the Affairs of the State Prison. The Chairman called
                                the committee together in this Hall on the evening before he
                                presented the majority report, stating that its details were not
                                complete &c He (Mr. M.) came to his place in this body opposed
                                to any considerable outlay of money for the prison; but when he went
                                to Jeffersonville, he became willing to vote a small sum for
                                increasing the number of the cells. But now he was forced to support
                                the recommendation of the Governor for the construction of a new
                                penitentiary north of the Wabash river.
                            Mr. HUNTER replied: Mr. Buskirk had no hand in the report, but Mr. B.
                                and Mr. Smith, of Perry, did assist in the draft of the bill he had
                                reported. The terms of that report were agreed upon in
                                Jeffersonville. A vote of the committee was taken in Jeffersonville,
                                and a majority were in favor of enlargement. When he called the
                                committee together here, they all agreed to the report, which he
                                read, except the gentlement on his right and another. Before they
                                left Jeffersonville, all except one concurred in enlargement. What!
                                the committee go down there to Jeffersonville, with so much
                                formality, for the mere purpose of erecting only a few cells for the
                                    prisoners to lodge in, and
                                do nothing to increase the facilities for the prison work, &c.
                                He reasoned to show how a prison could be made self-sustaining, and
                                replied at length to objections taken to his report, &c.; that
                                the Ohio river was the proper channel for the transportation of the
                                products of convict labor; and that the northern part of the State -
                                though it furnished the larger portion of the convicts - could
                                furnish no suitable location for a prison, nor any adequate market
                                for the products of prison-labor, which also induced a competition
                                that proved a curse to its neighborhood - citing the example of the
                                Ohio State Prison, which last year proved an expense of $17,000 to
                                that State, &c. He spoke at length.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            On motion by Mr. CLEMENTS, the special order was suspended, and his
                                bill (No. 267) prescribing the times of Court in the 3d Circuit, was
                                considered on the second leading, and referred to a select
                                committee, viz: Messrs. Clements, Blythe and Smith, of Perry.
                            And his bill No. 268 was referred to the same committee.

                            
                                FINANCES OF THE STATE.
                                 The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz: The consideration
                                    of the committee's bills Nos. 192, 193,194, 195and he stated
                                    that, upon this unfinished order the House determined to
                                    consider the bill No. 195 by sections - the pending questions
                                    being; first, on Mr. Prosser's amendment of the 3d section,
                                    striking out the words:
                                
                                    "Or in the notes of solvent, specie-paying
                                        banks, regularly organized under the banking laws of this
                                        State."
                                
                                 And then on Mr. Robinson's amendment to strike out a portion of
                                    the same words, viz:
                                
                                     "Regularly organized under the banking laws of
                                        this State."
                                
                                Mr. HARNEY said the committee on Ways and Means had acted upon
                                    the assumption that some financial reforms were necessary. There
                                    was no condition to the Treasurer's bond. So that all he looses
                                    by unwise deposites,&c.,without actual malfeasance, the
                                    State must loose. Nothing ought to go out of the Treasurer's
                                    books without authority of law. The actual counting over of the
                                    assets in the Treasury. seems to have been a thing not practiced
                                    in our system. The law really provided no Treasury of the State
                                    of Indiana. We have a Treasurer, but where was the Treasury ?
                                    The law authorized the Treasurer to deposit the public moneys to
                                    the credit of the State. Losses in this way, therefore, fell on
                                    the State. This proposed change of our financial system, was not
                                    submitted through pride of authority or of opinion; it was a
                                    necessity. We had no longer a bank, standing as a fiscal agent
                                    of the State. The committee had modeled their propositions after
                                    those adopted in other States, constrained to reform their
                                    financial systems, as we are now. They had discarded perquisites
                                    of al public officers. The record of perquisites had become too
                                    glaring. It had reached a point which demanded change. It was
                                    wrong to associate dishonorable and base insinuations with the
                                    high official functions of the State; and we ought to abolish
                                    the system, which has inaugurated it. The bill also provides for
                                    one place for the safekeeping of the public funds; and this was
                                    in harmony with the principle of taxation, It also provides for
                                    distinct depositories for each particular fund, and secures its
                                    legitimate application. It also provides for inspection and
                                    publication of the condition of the public funds. But then, if
                                    we make an Independent Treasury, gentlemen, say, why not make it
                                    a treasury of hard money? Became then, was no immediate
                                    necessity for this; and it would hazard the acceptability of the
                                    system. He would accept the best system he could get, and leave
                                    perfection to come after. The urgent demand for change was
                                    greater than his desire for a perfect hard money treasury.
                                Mr. GORDON and Mr. TURPIE followed - the former in favor of the
                                    system and the latter in opposition- both speaking at length,
                                    and taking the range of subjects embraced in the four bills Mr.
                                    Edwards having been called to the Chair.
                                Mr. DAVIS said he thought the Speaker (Mr. Gordon) went out of
                                    his way in his animadversions on Governor Willard. He had known
                                    him long, and whatever were his other fault?, Governor Willard
                                    was the very soul of honora man of undoubted integrity. The
                                    first objection he took to these bills as the creation of the
                                    office of Comptroller. Why not devolve these duties upon the
                                    Auditor's office? He hoped the friends of the bill would not
                                    insist upon this. He could not vote for that provision which
                                    compels the payment of a docket fee, before a man can go with
                                    his case into the courts of justice - a fee of $4 - for an
                                    appeal to the Supreme Court! He referred to the 4th section of
                                    the bill No. 193. The effect was to saddle the poorer classes
                                    with an unequal share of the burden of the support of the
                                    Judiciary. There was no law prohibiting Indiana bank exchanges
                                    with the banks of other States, and if this were permitted, then
                                    the notes of solvent specie paying banks of those other States
                                    ought to be receivable for revenue. The former labors of the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means satisfied him that their labors
                                    ought to be subject to examination as well as those of any other
                                    committee. But there were good features in these bills: the
                                    manner of keeping the books: the pending bill with the amendment
                                    or the gentleman from Decatur: the provision against public
                                    officers investing the public moneys: the increase of salaries,
                                    and the prohibition of perquisites.
                                Mr. PROSSER had introduced his amendment in good faith.
                                    Defaulting Democrats had cursed the State with banks - had
                                    forced the odious State Bank upon us, &c. He was in favor of
                                    an independent treasury of the hard money stamp. He would vote
                                    for the amendment of the gentleman from Decatur, if he could not
                                    get his own: and he asked that gentleman to withdraw his
                                    amendment. He wanted the vote - to see how Democrats stand,
                                    &c.
                                Mr ROBINSON insisted that the bill without his amendment, did not
                                    present a fair issue; but, with his amendment, he would accept
                                    it. He objected to one currency for the State and its officials,
                                    and another for the people. This discrimination was no necessary
                                    part of the system. If his amendment were adapted,  then we could have a fair issue
                                    between the system presented, and a pure, hard-money
                                    sub-treasury, as desired by the gentleman from Brown.
                                Mr. HARNEY moved to recommit the bill and amendments to the
                                        Committee on Ways and Means.
                                Mr. RITTER demanded the previous question, and, under its force,
                                    the bill &c., were referred.
                                Mr. DOUGHERTY proposed instructions:
                                Amend section 3d by adding: "Provided also that whenever payment
                                    shall have been made into the State Treasury of the notes of
                                    solvent, specie paying banks to the amount of $1,000, it shall
                                    be the duty of the Treasurer to convert such notes into gold and
                                    silver coin.
                                Mr. MURRAY moved to lay the instructions on the table, and the
                                    vote stood - yeas 42, nays 44; so it was not laid on the
                                    table.
                                Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, proposed a substitute:
                                
                                    "That the Treasurer of State shall, as
                                        soon as practicable, after settling with the county
                                        treasurers, convert all the bank notes in his possession
                                        into gold and silver by presenting them to the banks that
                                        issued them, and demanding the coin."
                                
                                On motion by Mr. CLEMENTS, this was laid on the table without a
                                    division.
                                Mr. PROSSER proposed to substitute instructions as follows:
                                
                                    "Instruct the committee to provide for receiving
                                        nothing but gold and silver."
                                
                                It was rejected, by yeas 30, nays 57, as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS. -Messrs. Bowman, Carr,
                                                Clayton,Clements, Collier, Dobbins, Doughert Early,
                                                Eastham, Hancock, Jones, Jordan, Keefer, Kelly,
                                                Knowlton, Lawhead, Major, Massey, kelson, Parrett,
                                                Prosser, Shields, Shockley, Shull, Snyder, Sullivan,
                                                Summers, Tebbs, Thompson of Madison and Wood -
                                                30.
                                            NAYS. - Messrs. Austin, Baird,
                                                Boyd, Boxley, Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark,
                                                Claypool,Colgrove, Comstock, Davidson, Davis,
                                                Durham, Devol, Edwards, Fordyce, Gifford, Gregory,
                                                Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton of
                                                Boone, Hamilton of Wayne, Harney, Harrison, Hartley,
                                                Hunter, Jeffries, Johnston, Lewis, McLain,
                                                Mansfield, Mellett, Mansfield, Miller, Murray,
                                                Martin, Nebeker of Vtrmillion, Nebeker of Warren,
                                                Parks, Ritter, Robinson, Row, Rynerson, Scott,
                                                Sherman, Smith of Miaimi, Smith of Perry, Stiles,
                                                Thompson of Elkhart, Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler,
                                                Whetzel, Wildman and Mr. Speaker - 57.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                 The question recurred on Mr. Dougherty's instructions.
                                Mr. DOUGHERTY proposed now to to add these words:
                                
                                    "By presenting said notes to said banks
                                        for redemption."
                                
                                Which was adopted by consent, and the question again recurred on
                                    the amended instructions, the vote resulting yeas 44, nays 43 -
                                    as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS. - Messrs. Baird, Bowman,
                                                Carr, Cavins, Clayton, Clements. Colgrove, Collier,
                                                Davis, Dobbins Dougherty, Early, Eastham, Gifford,
                                                Gregory, Hamilton of B., Hancock, Jordan, Keefer,
                                                Kelly, Knowlton, Lawhead, McLain, Major, Massey,
                                                Merrifield, Martin, Nelson, Parrett, Prosser, Row,
                                                Rynersoa, Shields, Shockley, Snyder, Stiles,
                                                Sullivan, Summers, Tebbs, Thompson of Madison,
                                                Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler and Wood - 43.
                                            NAYS. - Messrs. Austin, Boyd,
                                                Boxley, Branham, Brotherton, Clark, Claypool,
                                                Comstock, Davidson, Devol, Edwards, Fordyce,
                                                Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush. Hamilton of
                                                Wayne, Harney, Harrison, Hartley, Hunter, Jeffries,
                                                Johnston, Jones, Lewis, Mansfield, Mellett, Miller,
                                                Murray, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren,
                                                Parks, Ritter, Robinson, Scott, Sherman, Shull,
                                                Smith ofMiami, Smith of Perry, Thompson of Elkhart,
                                                Whetzel, Wildman and Mr. Speaker. - 42.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                So the instructions were adopted.
                                Mr. AUSTIN submitted the following additional instructions:
                                Amend by striking out portions of sections 11 and 12, and by
                                    striking out the whole of section 13, and inserting the words
                                    ''in pamphlet form" appropriately in the 12th section.
                                These sections, (he said) provided for certain publications of
                                    the monthly and quarterly condition of the State and County
                                    Treasuries, in the Indianapolis newspapers, and the local
                                    newspapers of the several counties, which he conceived to be of
                                    no real advantage to the people. He provided for this
                                    publication, in pamphlet form, of the receipts and expenditures
                                    of the State.
                                The House then, at 5:35 o'clock, adjourned.
                            
                        

                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE
                        
                             SATURDAY, February 19, 1859. 
                        
                        On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the reading of the journal was dispensed
                            with.
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. McLEAN, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr. Shoemaker's
                                bill 198, recommencing that it lie on the table.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            M. HENDRY, from the same committee returned the bill H. R. 79,
                                recommending indefinite postponement.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. COBB, from the same committee, returned his bill 206,
                                recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr HEFFREN from the same committee, returned the bill H. R. 95,
                                recommending indefinite postponement.
                        
                        
                             COMMON PLEAS COURT.
                             Mr. MARCH, fiom the same committee, returned his bill 164, to
                                enlarge the jurisdiction of the Court of Common Pleas, recommending
                                its passage.
                            Mr. HEFFREN hoped the report would not concurred in. He was opposed
                                to the whole system of Common Pleas Courts.
                            Mr. ANTHONY was opposed to the recommendation that the bill pass.
                            Mr. BENNETT was in favor of the final abolishment of the Common Pleas
                                system, and opposed to the report of the committee.
                            Mr. MARCH sustained the report of the committee and urged the
                                adoption of his bill.
                            Mr. GREEN thought it humbuggery to talk about abolishing the Court of
                                Common Pleas and having only one court.
                            Mr. McLEAN had before expressed himself as in favor of abolishing the
                                Common Pleas Court. He was in favor of the bill, and consequently in
                                favor of concurring in the report of the committee.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to concur, with the following amendment: strike out
                                ot section 1 the words "actions on the official bond of any State or
                                county officer."
                            Mr BENNETT moved to lay the report, with the pending amendment, on
                                the table.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 11, nays 31.
                            The motion to concur in the report, with the amendment, was agreed
                                to.
                            
                            The bill was then ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON made an ineffectual motion to reconsider the vote by
                                which the bill H R. 95 was indefinitely postponed.
                            Mr. ANTHONY from the same committee returned the bill H. R. 147,
                                enabling corporations to reduce the amount of their capital stock
                                &c., recommending its passage.
                            Mr. WILSON moved to postpone the consideration of the bill and report
                                till Tuesday, 10 o'clock.
                            Senators Anthony and McLean were opposed to the postponement, and
                                urged the passage o the bill now.
                            Mr. JONES explained the object of the postponement.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                        
                        
                            THE TEMPERANCE BILL.
                            Mr. GOODING moved to suspend the regular order of business in order
                                to take up the House temperance bill (29) and vote upon it.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 25, nays 23.
                            Mr. GOODING demanded the previous question, and, there being a
                                second, the main question was ordered. A constitutional provision
                                demanding the yeas and nays, they were ordered and being taken,
                                resulted - yeas 26, nays 20 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Carnahan Cobb, Cooper, Cravens, Culver,
                                            Gooding, Green, Hamilton, Hendry, Jones, McLean, Murray,
                                            Odell, Bice, Robinson, Steele, Stevens, Studabaker,
                                            Tarkington, Thompson, Wagner, Williams and Wilson -
                                            26.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Blair, Brown, Conner,
                                            Craven, Fisk, Hargrove, Heffren, Hill, Jennings,
                                            Johnston, Kinley, Line, Lomax, McOlure, March, O'Brien,
                                            Shoemaker Slack, Turner and Wallace - 20.
                                        Messrs. Bobbs and Miller refused to vote.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. BENNETT makes the following explanation of his vote:
                            Mr. President - The peculiar position which I occupy as a Senator on
                                this floor, in reference to the temperance question, makes it
                                necessary for me to give an explanation for the vote I shall give on
                                the bill now before the Senate. I represent a district of temperance
                                men. No counties in the State are more anxious for a constitutional
                                and effective temperance law, than Fayette and Union. And as their
                                representative, I should prove recreant to my duty, were I to spire
                                any exertion to secure the passage of such a law. I have said on
                                this floor and elsewhere that I did not think I ever could vote for
                                any law which recognizes the license system. I am utterly opposed to
                                the principle of licensing an acknowledged evil. I have regarded
                                drunkenness a great moral, social and political evil. I believe it
                                the source of crime, and the enemy of all good government. I have
                                believed as a lawyer, that the people through their legislatures,
                                had a right to prevent these evils, by removing the cause thereof. I
                                have never been able to arrive at that high degree of legal
                                knowledge which affects to discover in the organic law of the State
                                a principle which by any possible construction, would restrain this
                                necessary power of the people. My law books teach me that the power
                                of protecting society from evils, by removing the causes thereof, is
                                as old as civilization itself, and never doubted save where whisky
                                is in controversy. The power to protect rights and to prohibit
                                wrongs, is the primary object of law. I have not thus far in my
                                legal researches, been able to discover the nice technical
                                distinctions which some courts and politicians seem to have
                                discovered between the evils which flow from intemperance and those
                                from any other source, the well written opinion of our own Supreme
                                Court to the contrary notwithstanding. I have in all the preliminary
                                votes taken on this question in the Senate, during this and the
                                extra session, voted against the license system. But, sir, I am
                                satified from the many test vote which have bee taken here, and in
                                the other end of the Capitol that no other law can bo passed. I am
                                also satisfied that such a law as my constituents would prefer,
                                would be destroyed by the Supreme Court and at present constituted.
                                I am very anxious to have some law on the subject, and believe that
                                the bill now before the Senate, with the Senate amendments, will, in
                                such counties as I represent have the effect of suppressing the
                                evil. It hagf many provisions which will prove efficient and produce
                                good results, and while it may not kill the "monster," it will do
                                him great bodily harm. As legislators, we must compromise our
                                differences, for the public good. Therefore, protesting against the
                                license system, believing the bill a step in the right direction,
                                and as a dernier resort, I vote "aye."
                            Mr. BOBBS makes the following explanation to-wit : He expressed
                                himself against the bill for the following reasons. In the first
                                place he was opposed to any license law, out particularly to this
                                one, because it allowed a discrimination between the fashionable
                                saloon, and the less pretentious places of drinking. The County
                                Commissioners may not choose to exercise this power of
                                discrimination, it is true, but if they should not, it is not
                                because this bill does not allow them that privilege. Some Senators,
                                I believe, support this bill expressly on the grounds that, it would
                                allow the Commissioners, by the maximum license permitted, to
                                suppress the sale of ardent spirits in their counties. And in my
                                county, the largest saloons can afford to pay the highest license,
                                if by that, they can shut out all competition in the traffic.
                                Whether they so regard it, I do not pretend to know, but that they
                                would find it to their interest to do so, can hardly be denied. Just
                                in proportion to the amount of be paid for license required by this
                                bill, will the smaller groceries be closed and those remaining lave
                                a larger field for operations. And if the maximum, price of a
                                license should be required, reduces the traffic to a monopoly in the
                                hands of a few who can afford to advance the amount of license. If
                                the sale of intoxicating liquors is to be restricted at all, that
                                restriction should operate alike upon all, and not discriminate in
                                favor of those who can afford to indulge in this luxury, and against
                                those who can not afford this. My constituents are divided in
                                opinion upon the subject of the principle upon which a temperance
                                law should be based, and I am left without any instruction of their
                                wishes upon the present bill. As I believe this bill does not
                                reflect the wishes of a majority of my constituents, I decline to
                                vote for it.
                            Mr. CULVER makes the following explanation of his vote:
                            
                            No legislation can come before this body that will be of so much
                                general importance to the people as the subject matter contained in
                                this bill. It will affect for good or ill,directly or in directly,
                                the welfare of every family in this State. The evil that this
                                legislation proposes to remedy has often been the subject of
                                legislation. We have had prohibition, that has been decidedly
                                unconstitutional. Whether that decision was right or wrong, we have
                                not the power, by legislation, to overturn its decrees. As we can
                                not make a prohibitory law, the only practical question is, shall we
                                have a pay license or simply a bond to keep an orderly house,
                                &c. Between these two systems, I am for the former, believing
                                that the ends to be gained will plead a justification ol the means
                                used. I look upon the House bill as imperfect in many of its
                                details. Yet at this late day of the session, unless we take that
                                bill and pass it without loading it down with material amendments,
                                we will get no law upon this subject. I do not like this bill; the
                                latitude given in the amount of the license, and I vote for it
                                without a change, believing that an amendment would be fatal to the
                                bill in the other end of the capitol. This is so regarded by its
                                friends there This kind of legislation, to be beneficial, ought to
                                be kept clear of party. We ought to have a law that can not be
                                charged as the exclusive act of any faction. This can only be done
                                by mutual concession by the different elements that we have upon
                                this floor in regard to this question. I hope that this law, if it
                                passes, may be the means of suppressing intemperance. The few
                                extreme temperance men ought to know, that oppose this bill, that
                                this is the most stringent law that can pass. As a friend of a
                                stringent law, I vote for this - not with my entire approval, but as
                                a compromise.
                            Mr. HILL makes the following explanation of his vote:
                            It is, in my opinion, and in the opinion of many of the most
                                intelligent of my constituents, wrong in principle for the State to
                                license men to deal out to our people intoxicating liquors, the
                                effects of which are too well known and felt to need enumeration
                                here. The law, as I understand it, allows any person without
                                license, and without giving bond and security, to sell as much
                                intoxicating liquor as they choose in any quantity not less than one
                                gallon. The law, therefore, in my opinion, will be absolutely
                                worthless in protecting us against the evils of intemperance; and as
                                it involves a principle that I do not wish to sanction, I vote
                                no.
                            Mr. ODELL makes the following explanation of his vote:
                            Mr. President - I vote for this bill, not because I approve of all of
                                its provisions, but because there is now no law on that subject; as
                                it is a conceded fact that there will be no law passed this session,
                                unless this bill shall pass, and as I prefer it to no law at all on
                                that subject.
                            Mr. STEVENS makes the following explanation of his vote:
                            Mr. President - I shall vote for the bill now on its passage, not
                                that I indorse the principle of license, but for the reason that I
                                am convinced that if it fails, no other can be passed at the present
                                session of the General Assembly. I feel,then, that I am compelled to
                                take this or no law at all, and believing that if the provisions of
                                this act are enforced, and the County Commissioners reflect, in
                                their action, the sentiments of the people on the subject, that in
                                the county I represent, and in more than half the counties in the
                                State it will amount to a prohibitory law. I am aware that the
                                temperance people of the State, are opposed to the license system;
                                so am I, but the question now before me is, shall I vote I for the
                                bill which authorizes license, or against it and have no law at all;
                                in this dilemma I have no hesitancy.
                            Mr. WAGNER makes the following explanation for his vote:
                            Mr. President - I wish to say, sir, that this bill is not such a one
                                as I would like; but, sir, my constituents wish some kind of a law,
                                and the question is whether this law is the best one that might be
                                passed. I admit that the principle of a license law is wrong - the
                                State ought not to be a party to such a traffic - but, as under the
                                Constitution, as decided by our courts, we can not prohibit the
                                traffic altogether, we must do the best we can, and believing that
                                if we do not pass a license law we will pass none this session, and
                                believing further that my people desire some kind of a temperance
                                law, I will vote for this bill. But while I do this let me say it is
                                with great reluctance. So the bill passed.

                        
                        
                            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
                            Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee,returned
                                Mr. Conner's bill (201) on the Wabash and Erie Canal, recommending
                                its passage.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN moved to concur in the report, with an amendment
                                striking out the 5th section: [releasing the trustees from
                                maintaining bridges across the Canal.]
                            Mr. MURRAY objected to the amendment.
                            [A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of
                                the bill (S, 145) to provide for a more uniform mode of doing
                                township business.]
                            Mr. McLEAN opposed the amendment. He thought the interests of the
                                State demanded some legislation on the subject.
                            Mr. STEELE said this bill was the only plan that could be agreed upon
                                by Senators along its line. He would not vote a dollar from the
                                State Treasury, but was willing to release the trustees from keeping
                                up the bridges, and allow them to be kept up by the townships in
                                which they lie. He should vote for the bill.
                            Mr. HAMILTON feared the adoption of the amendment would be fatal to
                                the Canal. He trusted the bill would pass.
                            Mr. WALLACE intended to oppose this bill; desired time for further
                                consideration, but proceeded to discuss and explain his objections
                                thereto He regarded this bill as the entering wedge to the taking
                                back of this Canal.
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the further consideration of the matter was
                                postponed till Monday night at 7 o'clock.
                            On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, his bill (23) fixing the time of holding
                                the Courts of Common Pleas in Adams county, was read the third time,
                                and passed the Senate by yeas 43, nays 0.
                            Mr. RICE, from the Judiciary Committee, re-  turned Mr Cooper's bill (189)
                                recommending that it lie on the table. The report was concurred
                                in.
                        
                        
                            BANK OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
                             Mr. STEELE, from the Committee on Banks returned
                                Mr. Odell's bill (122) taxing the Bank of the State of Indiana and
                                its branches, and prohibiting said bank from issuing on deposits
                                recommending its passage.
                            Mr. MARCH moved to amend by striking out section - and inserting in
                                lieu thereof the following:
                            The capital stock of said bank, together with the amount of its
                                circulation over and above the amount of its capital stock, ami its
                                real estate and other property shall ba subject to the same rate of
                                taxation for State, county and municipal purposes, as the property
                                of individuals.
                            Mr. MARCH could not see why this bank should not be taxed for its
                                capital stock and its circulation over and above the amount of
                                capital stock paid in. Unless that bank is so taxed it has a decided
                                advantage over individuals.
                            Mr. STEELE believed the bank ought to be taxed as individuals or
                                other institutions are taxed.
                            Mr. MURRAY thought we had a right to make the bank law conform to the
                                general law upon the subject of taxation.
                            Mr. WALLACE and Mr. TARINGTON each were heard in a few remarks.
                            [On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, Mr. Stevens' bill 192, was taken irom the
                                table and placed on the file of the Senate.]
                            The amendment was then adopted - yeas 31, nays 7.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to strike out the preamble.
                            [Mr. GOODING obtained leave of absence till Monday, 2 o'clock p.
                                m.]
                            The motion was adopted - yeas 27, nays 9.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. MURRAY made an ineffectual attempt to refer the bill to a select
                                committee of five.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. STEELE, from the Committee on Banks returned Mr. Hargrove's bill
                                (93), recommending indefinite postponement.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to reconsider the vote by which Mr. Odell's bill
                                (122) was ordered to be engrossed.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            On motion by Mr. BOBBS, the bill was referred to Messrs. Bobbs,
                                Williams and Steele.

                            
                                BANK OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
                                Mr. WAGNER, from the Committee on Banks,
                                    returned his bill (187), creating six additional bank districts,
                                    recommending its passage[Senators March and Jennings
                                    dissenting.]
                                Mr. HENDRY moved to concur with the following amendment: "insert
                                    that the books shall be kept open for thirty days."
                                Mr. HEFFREN moved to amend the amendment by adding "that the
                                    stock shall be divided in proportion to the amount of stock
                                    subscribed; and that the books shall be kept open from 9 o'clock
                                    to 12 o'clock."
                                Mr. HENDRY accepted.
                                The report and amendment were concurred in.
                                Mr. MARCH moved to amend the 15th section of the charter by
                                    adding his amendment to the bill (122) as printed above; and the
                                    9lst section, as follows:
                                 The Legislature may at any time alter or repeal this act, but
                                    said bank, or any of its branches, shall not be authorized by
                                    any amendment to suspend or refuse the payment of specie, for
                                    its notes, bills or obligation, or for a money received on
                                    deposite, and the faith of the State is hereby pledged that no
                                    such amendment shall ever be made.
                                SEC. The power given by this act to establish
                                    additional branches of said Bank of the State, is made upon the
                                    express condition precedent, that said bank accept the
                                    amendments to its charter in the manner prescribed in the said
                                    91st section of its original charter.
                                Mr. MARCH could not consent to extend its branches, unless the
                                    bank should be placed under the control of the Legislature.
                                Mr. HAMILTON said it was not he desire of the bank that, this
                                    increase should be made.
                                Mr. HEFFREN was in favor of taxing this bank the same as
                                    individuals are taxed; but thought the amendment was asking more
                                    than the bank was willing to concede, and we would consequently
                                    get nothing. He was willing to compromise, but was forninst giving the bank any more previleges than it
                                    has.
                                Mr. WAGNER thought the State should do justice to the portions of
                                    the State which have not had branches located in them; and to
                                    accommodate these people this bill was intended. He moved to
                                    make this subject the special order for Monday at 3 o'clock.
                                The motion was agreed to
                            
                            
                                LIABILITY OF RAILROADS.
                                Mr. CRAVEN; from the select committee, thereon, returned his bill
                                    [?]45, with amendments recommending passage. The report was
                                    concurred in.
                                Mr. MURRAY moved to recommit with instructions to amend, so that
                                    when the company come forward and tenders two-thirds of the
                                    value of the property killed or injured, and the party refuse to
                                    take it, and institute suit to recover the full value on account
                                    ofnegligence, that he shall not recover the cost of action.
                                Mr. MARCH contended there was no necessity for the adoption of
                                    the amendment.
                                The motion to recommit was rejected.
                                On motion by Mr. BOBBS, the bill was laid on the table.
                                On motion by Mr. GREEN, a resolution from the House, requesting
                                    the return of the bill H. R. 147, was considered and concurred
                                    in.
                                Mr. KINLEY, by leave, offered a resolution which was adopted,
                                    directing the Committee on Finance to incorporate in the
                                    specific appropriation bill some compensation to Professer Mills
                                    for his suggestions on the Common School system.
                                On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, Mr. Stevens' bill 192, about the public
                                    printing, was taken up, amended, and ordered to be engrossed for
                                    a third reading.
                            
                            
                                THE CALENDAR.
                                The following Senate bills were read the second time and
                                    appropriately referred:
                                Mr. Wier's 225 and Mr. Wier's 235, to the Committee on
                                        Banks.
                                Mr. March's 227, Mr. Slack's 228, and Mr.Wagner's 237, to the
                                        Committee on Finance.
                                
                                Mr. Carnahan's 226, to the Committee on
                                        Corporations.
                                Mr. Slack's 229, Mr- Shoemaker's 230, Mr. Tarkington's 232, Mr.
                                    Hill's 234 and Mr. Robinson's 239, to the Judiciary
                                        Committee.
                                Mr. March's 236, ordered to be engrossed.
                                Mr. Craven's 238, to the Committee on
                                        Agriculture.
                                The following House bills were read the second time and
                                    appropriately referred:
                                No 142, referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                                No's. 143, 201, 249, were ordered to be engrossed.
                                Mr. STUDABAKER, by leave, introduced a bill (240) to authorize
                                    Justices of the Peace, within their respective counties, to
                                    administer oaths generally, and to legalize such as have been
                                    made in good faith and without fraud since the 6th day of May,
                                    1853; which was passed the first reading.
                                And then the Senate adjourned.
                            

                        
                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             SATURDAY, February 19, 1859. 
                        
                        Messrs. Hartley, Treadway, Shields and Sullivan had leave of absence till
                            Monday.
                        The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from James S. Athon,
                            Superintendent for the Hospital for the Insane, responding to an inquiry
                            of the House of Representatives respecting the cost of patients.
                            &c.
                        Also a communication from the Governor responding to a resolution of the
                            House of the 16th instant.
                        On motion of Mr. COLLIER, Mr. Boyd's ten minutes speech resolution was
                            taken up and adopted.
                        Mr. SCOTT asked and obtained leave to submit a resolution for night
                            session every alternate session.
                        Mr. DOUGHERTY proposed to add:
                        
                            "For the purpose of introduction and consideration
                                of bills on the first and second reading."
                        
                        Mr. CAVIN submitted an amendment byway of substitute, viz:
                        
                            "That during the remainder of the session, the
                                House of Representatives will hold evening sessions each Monday,
                                Wednesday and Friday - commencing at 7 o'clock.
                        
                        It was agreed to, and then the resolution as amended, was adopted without
                            a division.
                        Mr. REEFER made an ineffectual motion to take up the bill No. 200.
                        
                            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
                            Mr. COLGROVE, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned his bill
                                (246), surrendering to the trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal all
                                the right the State has to redeem the Wabash and Erie Canal,
                                &c., with amendments, [as heretofore proposed by Mr. C., with
                                one exception striking out the provision in the 4th section which
                                releases the trustees from keeping up the canal bridges,]
                            Mr. AUSTIN moved to lay the subject on the table.
                            Mr. COLGROVE, by leave, expressed a desire for engrossment and
                                printing.
                            Mr. EDWARDS, by leave, desired opportunity to consider and hear from
                                parties interested.
                            Mr. BLYTHE, by leave, desired to amend the motion by laying on the
                                table, and ordering the printing of 100 copies, but made no
                                motion.
                            The subject was laid on the table - yeas 62, nays 7.
                        
                        
                            ACTIONS WHERE THE NOTE-MAKER RESIDES.
                             On the motion of Mr. BOYD, the order of business was suspended for
                                the consideration of bills on the third reading.
                            Mr. Prosser's bill (37) to amend the 33d section of the practice act
                                of June 18, 1852, so as to provide that no suit against, the maker
                                of any note or written contract shall be commenced without the
                                county of the maker's residence, coming up - 
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, objected to the bill. It gave preference to a
                                class of defendants, and you must drag yourself and the other
                                defendants to sue where the preferred defendants reside.
                            Mr. PROSSER. It will not change the law, but only prevent fraudulent
                                assignments for jurisdiction. The jurisdiction is not removed,
                                except in cases where the note or contract has been assigned in
                                writing for the purpose of obtaining jurisdiction.
                            The bill was lost-yeas 31, nays 39as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. - Messrs. Bowman, Boyd,
                                            Brotherton, Carr, Cavins, Clayton, Colgrove, Davis,
                                            Dougherty, Early, Fordyce, Gifford, Harrison, Jones,
                                            Jordan, Knowlton, Lawhead, Major, Mansfield, Mellett,
                                            Murray, Parks, Prosser, Row, Shockley, Shull, Thompson
                                            of Madison, Turpie, Waterman, Wildman and Mr. Speaker -
                                            31.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Clark, Collier,
                                            Comstock, Davidson, Dobbins, Durham, Eastham, Griffin,
                                            Pall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton of Poone, Hancock,
                                            Hartley, Hunter, Johnston, Kelly, Lewis, McLain,
                                            Merrifield, Miller, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of
                                            Warren, Nelson, Ritter, Robinson, Rynerson, Scott,
                                            Sherman, Shields, Smith of Miami, Stanley, Summers,
                                            Tebbs, Usrey, Wheeler, Whetzel, Whiteman and Wood -
                                            39.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, (upon a reconsideration,) the
                                regular order was resumed.
                            Mr. SHIELDS, by leave, from the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means, to which was referred that portion of the
                                Governor's message recommending the erection of a building for the
                                Supreme Court, reported a bill (297) authorizing the Governor,
                                Secretary of State and Treasurer, to receive bids for the
                                construction of such a fire-proof building, for the accommodation of
                                the Supreme Court and the several State officers, on the corner of
                                Tennessee and Washington streets, south of the State House Square -
                                the cost not to exceed $25,000, which was passed the first
                                reading.
                            Mr. HARRISON, by leave, presented the memorials of citizens and
                                lawyers of Logansport, Peru and Fulton, concerning an impeachment of
                                the Common Pleas Judge of Cass and Miami, which were referred
                                without reading to Messrs. Knowlton, Smith, of Miami, Harrison,
                                &c.
                        
                        
                            HORSE THIEF DETECTORS.
                            Mr. WILDMAN, from the Committee on Claims,
                                reported favorably on the claims of Leonard Bowers and others,
                                claiming indemnity for expenses incurred under the requisition of
                                the Governor, in detecting and recovering fugitive horse thieves, to
                                the amount of $2,000.
                            Mr. CAVINS submitted a minority report.
                            
                            On motion by Mr. COLLIER the report was laid on the table.
                            Mr. WILDMAN moved to reconsider this vote.
                            Mr. MURRAY, by leave, explained the majority report. It was not for a
                                reimbursement of money for detecting horse thieves, but for
                                reclaiming fugitives under the requisition of the Governor.
                            Mr. DAVIS. Were these petitioners concerned in the murderous hanging
                                of McDougal, in Noble county ?
                            Mr. MURRAY. No That was before this organization took place. These
                                horse thieves and black legs, in the North-west counties, became so
                                bold and formidable, that, it was almost incredible to tell of their
                                acts, and the terror they inspired. He gave examples under his
                                knowledge in Lagrange county. This organization had procured the
                                detection and imprisonment of twenty-five thieves, and there were
                                five others awaiting trial.
                            Mr. CAVINS, by leave, explained and defended the minority report. It
                                was made some time ago, and intended to apply to all this class of
                                claims, including those awarded by the House to certain claimants of
                                Marion county. They were all claims for voluntary service,
                                &c.
                            Mr. WILDMAN gave examples of the character of the organization of the
                                regulators in question - the oath required by it - the necessity for
                                itthe extent of the organization of desperadoes in Noble county and
                                elsewhere, and the success of the regulators in breaking them up.
                                Mr. McDougal was lynched before the regulators' associations were
                                organized. He regarded this as an extreme and extraordinary
                                case.
                            Mr. HUNTER opposed the allowance of these claims. He regarded these
                                regulators as a curse to any people.
                            Mr. DOBBINS made an ineffectual motion to lay the motion to
                                reconsider on the table.
                            The House then refused to reconsider - yeas 28, nays 44.
                            Mr. MURRAY hoped the House would now do themselves and all parties
                                the justice to Strike out all such allowances from the specific
                                appropriation bill.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN, from the Committee on Roads, reported upon petition, a
                                bill (298) to provide for laying out and repairing highways on the
                                line between the State of Indiana and adjoining States; which was
                                passed the first reading.
                            Mr. RYNERSON, from the Committee on Agriculture, returned the
                                committee's bill (244) to amend the 73d section of the assessment
                                act of June 21, 1852, (with reference to agricultural statistics),
                                recommending passage.
                            Mr. RYNERSON explained its provisions requiring copies of township
                                tables to be filed with County Auditor, State Auditor, and to be
                                submitted for publication in the local newspapers.
                            Mr. MILLER and Mr. PROSSER regarded the whole thing a as a
                                humbug.
                            Mr. MURRAY. It adds this to the law: It requires the assessor to tell
                                the number of acres cultivated, the amount of yield per acre, and a
                                copy of each township statement to be tendered to the local papers
                                for publication - to be printed without charge.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, would vote for the bill if he could get out
                                that part requiring report to the Auditor of State.
                            Mr. JORDAN proposed to recommit with instructions
                            
                                "To change the present law so as to provide
                                    for the taking of such statistics but once in three years."
                            
                            Mr. MURRAY was in favor of that.
                            Mr. HARNEY was for this favorable legislation to agriculture. This
                                was the way to favor any great interest. The manufacturing and
                                mercantile interests were amply reported in this way and its
                                importance was understood. Strange that agriculturists were so
                                willing to go it blind in their business. He suggested that the
                                present imperfect statistical information gave a pretty certain
                                indication that our Indiana lands were falling off in their
                                productive value, and hence the importance to this great interest of
                                encourageing the collection of statistical information.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Vermillion, desired to wake up the farmers to some
                                appreciation of their interests in this direction, &c. He hoped
                                this information would be given yearly.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON moved to amend the instructions by striking out "three,"
                                and inserting "five" years.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, moved to lay the motion and instruction on
                                the table - which was decided in the affirmative - yeas 44, nays
                                42:
                            And then the bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            On motion of Mr. SHIELDS, the orders being suspended for the purpose,
                                it was ordered that the Clerk request the Senate to return his bill,
                                No. 147, for further consideration and amendment in the House of
                                Representatives.
                        
                        
                            NEW BILLS UNDER DISPENSATION.
                             By Mr. HARNEY: (299), to authorize dona-tions to be made the State
                                by any person or municipal corporation for building or enlarging
                                benevolent institutions, or for the use and benefit of Common
                                Schools:
                            By Mr. EARLY: (300), providing that certain notices of sale, and
                                other legal notices therein named shall be published in a newspaper
                                at the county seat, in all cases where there is a newspaper
                                published at the county seat:
                            By Mr. MURRAY, (301) to repeal so much of the law for the collection
                                of taxes as requires County Treasurers to attend at the places of
                                holding elections for that purpose.
                            By Mr. BOWMAN, (302) regulating the public printing of the State of
                                Indiana, fixing the compensation therefor, and prescribing the
                                duties of certain officers therein named. [To abolish the office of
                                Public Printer - Secretary of State shall receive bids for printing,
                                &c.]
                            By Mr. DAVIS, (303) supplementary to and amendatory of the 15th
                                article of the practice act. of June 18, 1852, so as to authorize
                                attachments in certain cases.
                            By Mr. DOBBINS, (304) supplementary to the act authorizing the
                                construction of plank, McAdamized and graveled roads, approved May
                                12, 1852.
                            Which were severally passed the first reading. 
                            
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            NEW BILLS
                             Mr. MERRIFIELD said he desired leave to a bill to reduce the
                                salaries of public officers - not that he himself desired the
                                success of the proposition. On the contrary there was probably no
                                man on this floor who would vote to give our public officers more
                                competent salaries than he would. But because a bill had been to-day
                                introduced into the House,(the bill No.302) of which he understood
                                the history, and which he denounced as a base and cowardly attempt
                                to strike down as true a democrat as ever breathed the vital air; he
                                intended, by the introduction of this bill, that it should share the
                                same fate with that. If the State Printer was to be striken down, he
                                was determined that the friends of those aiding and abetting in the
                                act should share a similar fate.
                            Mr. CAVINS, (by leave.) In the early part of the session, before the
                                election of printer, the question arose among Republicans whether or
                                not the compensation of the Public Printer should be reduced, and
                                though nothing definite was done he distinctly remembered telling
                                his friends, Republicans and Democrats, that it mattered naught to
                                him whether Mr. Sulgrove were elected or anybody else, he was
                                determined to vote for reducing this compensation. He cared not
                                particularly about abolishing the office, but he was for reducing
                                the compensation. It was not a proposition to strike down a
                                political enemy, because it was known, he presumed, that those in
                                favor of it had been so from the first. It was supposed by some that
                                Colonel Walker's time would be out next August. He did not know as
                                to that; but if that were so,of course the proposed act should be
                                amended so as not to apply till his time shall be out. He hoped
                                those Democrats who had said, when the election was about to be
                                brought on, that they would vote for this reduction, would not now
                                retrain from doing so, for the sake of sustaining a political
                                partisan.
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD. He had referred to the bill to abolish the office of
                                State Printer.
                            The leave was accorded by consent, and Mr. Merrifield's bill (305)
                                providing for the salaries of public officers and the manner of
                                paying the game, was read and passed the first reading.
                            Mr. JORDAN, by leave, presented a statement and certificate of the
                                claims of Isaac P. Sibird and others, for apprehending the Prather
                                horse-thieves in Perry county; which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Claims.
                            On the motion of Mr. KEEFER, his embezzlement bill (200) was
                                considered and ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. BROTHERTON introduced a bill (306) for the relief of John M.
                                Shirey.
                            On motion by Mr. BLYTHE, under a suspension, the Senate amendments to
                                the bill (H R. 210) to establish the 15th Judicial Circuit, were
                                taken up and concurred in.
                            He also, from the select committee thereon, returned Mr. Clements'
                                bills (267, 268) prescribing the times of court in the Third
                                Circuit, and in the counties therein named, with amendments to
                                conform to the above.
                            The amendments were concurred in, and the bills ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. DOBBINS, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill
                                (100) to provide for a geological, mineralogical and agricultural
                                survey of the State of Indiana, recommending passage.
                            It was ordered to engrossment.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN, from the select committee on Mr Scott's fishing bill,
                                returned the same, with an amendment by way of substitute, which was
                                adopted, and the bill was ordered to engrossment.
                            Mr. MAJOR introduced a bill (307) providing for the repayment of
                                State taxes illegally assessed and collected for the year 1857, and
                                paid into the State Treasury; which was passed the first
                                reading.
                            Mr. KELLEY, from the Committee on Agriculture, to which was referred
                                the resolution of the House of Representatives with reference to the
                                protection of sheep and the taxation of dogs, reported a bill, (308)
                                entitled an act for preserving sheep, taxing dogs, and for other
                                purposes, which was passed the first reading.
                            Mr. MARTIN introduced a bill, (309), to repeal the act to provide for
                                the election, fixing the compensation and prescribing the duties of
                                the Attorney General of the State of Indiana, approved February 21,
                                1855, which was passed the third reading.In the order of bills on
                                the second reading - 
                            Mr. Parrett's bill (279) and Mr. Edwards' (269) were referred to the
                                    Committee on Corporations.
                            Mr. Stanfield's (280), was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Organization ot Courts of Justice.
                            Mr. Blythe's (281), Mr. Prosser's (289), Mr. Cotton's (274), the
                                Committee's (290), Mr. Edwards' (270), and Mr. Davis' (275), were
                                severally referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            The Sinking Fund Committee's bills (282, 283,284,
                                285), were referred to the Committee on
                                Education.
                            Mr. Merrifield's bill (273) was referred to Messrs. Merrifield,
                                Dougherty, Blythe, Harney and Scott.
                            Mr. Devol's bill (287) was referred to the Committee on
                                    Benevolent Institutions.
                            Mr. Jones' (288) was referred to Committee on
                                    Agriculture.
                            Mr. Murray's (286) and Mr. Speaker Gordon's (276) were ordered to
                                engrossment.
                            Mr, Snyder's bills (271, 289) were referred to the Committee
                                    on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. Dobbins', Mr. Snyder's and Mr. Eastham's penitentiary bills
                                (294/295, 206) were referred to Messrs. Snyder, Scott, Sherman,
                                Turpie, Edwards, Hunter, Devol and Mellett.
                            Mr Waterman's (277) was referred to the Committee on Fees
                                    and Salaries.
                            The Select Printing Committee's bill (293) with a
                                " vive voce" amendment by Mr. Murray, pending, was laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. BROTHERTON, by leave, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Nebeker of Warren's bill
                                (187) to amend the road law and reduce the tariff of tolls, with an
                                amendment by substitute, which was adopted, and the bill ordered to
                                engrossment.
                            The House then, at 4:5 o'clock, adjourned. 
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             MONDAY, February 21, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                             Mr. McLEAN, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned his bill 211, recommending, its passage. The report was
                                concurred in, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. MARCH, from the same committee, returned Mr. McClure's bill 152,
                                recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. MURRAY, from the same committee, to which was referred a
                                resolution of the Senate touching deposits from the Pulaski County
                                Swamp Land Fund in the Wabash Valley Bank to the amount of some
                                $13,000, made a report, which was referred to the Committee
                                    on Finance.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                             The following bills were introduced and read the first time:
                            By Mr, MARCH (241), extending to the new Sinking Fund Board powers
                                exercised by the old Board of Commissioners.
                            By Mr. CRAVENS (242), an act to provide a Treasury system for the
                                State of Indiana, for the manner of receiving, holding and
                                disbursing the public moneys of the State, and for the sale keeping
                                of public moneys.
                            By Mr. GREEN (243), to amend section 23 of an act prescribing who may
                                make a will, the effect thereof, what may be devised, &c.,
                                approved May 31, 1852.
                            By Mr. GREEN (244) to amend section 8 of an act providing for the
                                settlement of decedent estates, &c., approved June 17, 1852.
                            [Mr. Studabaker'sbill 240 was read the second time and referred to
                                the Judiciary Committee.]
                            By Mr. HEFFREN (245), to enforce the 13th-article of the Constitution
                                of the State of Indiana.
                            And then the Senate, for want of a quorum, took a recess till 2
                                o'clock.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The special order - Mr. Shoemaker's bill No. 90 - was postponed till
                                Wednesday morning, 10 o'clock.
                            Mr. BLAIR., by leave, from the Committee on
                                    Corporations, returned Mr. Carnahan's bill 226,with an
                                amendment, recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, the rules were suspended - yeas 39, nays 0
                                - and Mr. Cravens' bill 242 was read by title the second time, and
                                ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. BENNETT, by leave, returned Mr. Green's bill 41, with amendments,
                                recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. ANTHONY, from the same committee, returned joint resolution No.
                                2, recommending the adoption of a resolution instructing the
                                Attorney General to bring suit and proceed to collect by due process
                                of law, all moneys due to the State from William R. Noffsinger, and
                                to collect all notes or drafts held as collateral security.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to strike out the resolving clause and insert the
                                enacting clause.
                            Senators Miller, Steele, Murray and Ricespoke against, and Hamilton,
                                Studabaker, Slack and March, spoke for the resolution, and then-The
                                amendment was rejected. 
                            Mr. MARCH moved to amend by adding to the second section after
                                "William R. Noffsinger," the words "Elijah Newland." 
                            Mr. STEELE moved to strike out "William R. Noffsinger and all other
                                defaulting officers" and insert "all persons indebted to the State
                                of Indiana."
                            On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER this amendment was laid on the table.
                            On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER the special order for this hour [3
                                o'clock] Mr. Wagner's bill 187 - was informally passed over.
                            On motion by Mr. RICE the word "defaulter" wherever it occurs was
                                struck out, and the word "delinquent" inserted.
                            The amendment of Mr. March was agreed to.
                            Mr. MARCH moved to amend by adding to the third section the words
                                "Henry P. Rowan and the Wabash Valley Bank."
                            Mr. MURRAY proposed to amend by offering a substitute which
                                authorized and directed suit to be brought against all persons who
                                may be in debt to the State, whether they be public officers or not,
                                or on any protested bills of exchange or drafts in the hands of any
                                public officer, or on account of deposits made in any bank to the
                                credit of the State.
                            Senators Conner, Steele, Williams, Studabaker and Murray spoke to the
                                substitute.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON moved to lay the substitute on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 21, nays 12.
                            Mr. HENDRY moved to amend by authorizing suit to be brought against
                                Elijah Newland for $1,960, being the amount paid by him as interest
                                on $32,000, which could not be paid to the Harper's when due, in
                                consequence of a loan made by him to the Madison & Peru railroad
                                company.
                            The amendment was agreed to, yeas 36, nays 3.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER demanded the previous question.
                            There being a second, under its operation, Mr. March's amendment was
                                agreed to, and the resolution as amended adopted by yeas 36, nays
                                3.
                            Mr. SLACK, by leave, presented a petition from D. O. Daily praying
                                for per diem and mileage while engaged in contesting the seat of
                                Leroy Woods at the last regular session of the Legislature, which
                                was referred to the Finance Committee.
                            Mr. LINE, by leave, from the select committee thereon, reported a
                                bill (246) to authorize the Treasurer of State to pay out money to
                                aid the Indiana Historical Society.
                            On motion by Mr. LINE, the rules were suspended and the bill read the
                                first and second times by title.
                            On motion by Mr. SLACK, the bill was read the third time and finally
                                passed by yeas 36, nays 7.
                            A message from the House announced its refusal to concur in two of
                                the Senate amendments to the Temperance bill H. R. 29.
                            
                            Mr. STUD A BAKER obtained leave to vote "no" on the County and
                                Township bill. [The vote is recorded on page 208 of these Reports
                                ]

                            
                                SUPERVISORS OF HIGHWAYS.
                                Mr. Shoemaker's bill (178) providing for the election and
                                    appointment of supervisors of highways, was read the third
                                    time.
                                Mr. STUDABAKER moved to recommit the bill to a select committee
                                    of three, with instructions to add after the word "taxation" in
                                    section 20 the words "assess a tax not to exceed one and
                                    one-fourth of a cent on each acre of taxable property, for road
                                    purposes."
                                Mr. WAGNER said if this amendment was not adopted he could not
                                    vote for the bill.
                                Mr. HENDRY moved additional instructions, as follows:
                                
                                    "Strike out all that part of the bill
                                        which authorizes the County Commissioners to do the township
                                        business."
                                
                                Mr. Studabaker's motion was agreed to, by yeas 27, nays 11.
                                Mr. HENDRY withdrew his instructions.
                                Mr. SLACK renewed them.
                                Mr. JONES moved the following additional instructions:
                                Insert in the proper place: Provided, that no person shall be
                                    required to work more than two days in each year otherwise than
                                    in the payment of taxes on property.
                                Mr HENDRY sustained the motion made by Mr. Slack.
                                Mr. MURRAY said the proposition of Mr. Jones might do for the old
                                    settled portions of the State,but it would not do for the newly
                                    settled.
                                Mr. WAGNER objected to the last proposed amendment
                                Mr. JONES thought the property holders should keep the road in
                                    repair, and not let that burden fall on the poor men of the
                                    land. With this view he offered the amendment.
                                Mr. SLACK proposed to add the words "except in cases of
                                    necessity."
                                Mr. CONLEY was opposed to the amendment.
                                Mr. HAMILTON agreed with Mr. Jones, and thought land holders
                                    should keep up the roads.
                                On Mr. CONLEY'S motion the instructions proposed by Mr. Jones
                                    were laid on the table.
                                Mr. MARCH moved to amend by providing that when a party refuses
                                    to work, and judgment is obtained, it shall be collected without
                                    the benefit or the exemption laws.
                                On motion by Mr. BLAIR., the committee was further instructed to
                                    amend the law so that persons refusing to work shall pay
                                    commutation money.
                                On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the consideration of Mr. Warner's
                                    bill (187), was postponed till to-morrow, at 3 o'clock.
                                The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate a communication from H. Clay
                                    Gooding, "disclaiming any intention of interfering either to
                                    encourage or prevent the encounter [between his brother and Mr.
                                    Heffren on the 15th inst.] and certainly without the most remote
                                    idea of taking any personal part," which was referred to the
                                    Senate difficulty investigating committee.
                                And then the Senate took a recess till 7 o'clock, P. M.
                            
                        
                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.
                            The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate a
                                communication from the Auditor, showing amounts audited on account
                                of Swamp Lands from November 1, 1854, to the present date, which was
                                referred to the Joint Committee on Swamp
                                Lands.
                            On motion by Mr. SLACK the special order for this hour.
                            Mr. Conner's bill 212 was postponed till to-morrow 10 o'clock, A.
                                M.
                            On motion by Mr. JENNINGS, his joint resolution (No. - ) on the
                                African slave trade was made the special order for Wednesday, 2
                                o'clock, P.M.
                            On motion by Mr. LINE, the resolution (H. R. 14) demanding rent for
                                rooms used by the Federal Courts, was taken up and amended by
                                inserting in the proper place the following:
                            Provided, however, that if the amount of the claim
                                be allowed or any other amount, the same shall become part of the
                                school fund, and be governed by the same rules and regulations.
                            The resolution as amended, was then adopted yeas - 32, nays 4.
                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, the bill (H. R. 103) to amend the 9th section
                                of the general school law, approved March 5, 1855, was taken from
                                the table.
                            On motion by Mr. WILSON it was amended so as to allow justices ot the
                                peace to legalize commissioners' certificates.
                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, the bill was read the third time and passed
                                by yeas 29, nays 10.
                            On motion by Mr. SHOEMAKER, the bill (H. R. 131) to secure dues from
                                private corporations, was taken up, read the third time and passed -
                                yeas 41, nay 1.
                            The bill (H. R. 16) to amend the 32d section of an act denning
                                misdemeanors, &c., approved June 14, 1852, and March 7, 1S57,
                                was read the third time and passed - yeas 42, nays 0.Mr. STUDABAKER,
                                by leave, from the Special committee thereon,
                                returned Mr. Shoemaker's bill (178) providing for the election and
                                appointment of Supervisors of highways, &c., with the
                                amendments, which they were instructed by the Senate to make,
                                recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill passed - yeas32. nays
                                10.
                            On motion by Mr. GOODING, the temperance bill (H. R. 29) was taken
                                from the table.
                            Mr. GOODING moved that the Senate insist upon its amendment to the
                                bill: viz: inserting after the word "manufacturer" in the latter
                                part;of section 15 the words ''or any other persons."
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 30, nays 12.
                            Mr. GOODING moved that the Senate recede from its amendment declaring
                                that a violation of the law shall be deeded a forfeiture of
                                license.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 22, nays 20, as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb,
                                            Cravens, Culver, Fisk, Gooding, Green, Hamilton,
                                            Hargrove, Jennings, Jobnston. Junes, Murray. Odell,
                                            Bice, Robinson, Black, Steele, Studabaker, Wagner,
                                            Williams and Wilson - 22.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Bennett, Blair, Conley,
                                            Conner, Cooper, Craven, Hendry, Hill, Kinley, Line,
                                            Lomax, McClure, March, Miller, O'Brien, Shoemaker,
                                            Stevens, Tarkington Thompson and Turner - 20.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. WAGNER moved to reconsider the vote by which the Senate insisted
                                upon its amendment to the bill.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 16, nays 26.
                            The bill (H. R 20) to prevent the carrying of  concealed or dangerous weapons, was
                                read the third time and passed - yeas 30, nays 9.
                            The bill (H. R. 27) to authorize plank, McAdamized, and gravel road
                                companies to consolidate their stock with that or other similar
                                companies, &c , was read the third time, and passed yeas 35,
                                nays 4.
                            The bill (H. R. 28), to provide for the use as evidence of
                                depositions taken to perpetuate testimony prior to the taking effect
                                of the Revised Statutes of 1852, &c., was read the third time,
                                and passed - yeas 37, nays 1.
                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, Senate bills were taken up on their third
                                reading.
                            Mr. Wallace's bill (2) providing for the election of United States
                                Senators, was read and laid on the table.
                            Mr. Wallace's bill 46 was laid on the table.
                            Mr. GREEN made an ineffectual motion to go back to the order of
                                business just set aside and take up House bills on their third
                                reading.
                            Mr. Hargrove's bill (50) to amend sec. 16 of an act concerning the
                                partition of lands, approved May 20,1852, was read the third time
                                and passed, by yeas 38, nays 0.
                            Mr. Wagner's bill (51) for the better protection of religious
                                meetings, agricultural fairs and other lawful assemblages of the
                                people, was read the third time and passed, by yeas 34, nays 5.
                            Mr. Carnahan's bill (53) authorizing County Commissioners to award
                                compensation to persons who may bring fugitives from justice back to
                                the same, was read the third time.
                            Mr. GOODING objected to allowing County Commissioners to open the
                                State Treasury to whomsoever they please, for this purpose.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN urged the passage.
                            Mr. MURRAY favored the bill.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER opposed the bill, and moved, to recommit, with
                                instructions to make the same payable out of the county
                                treasury.
                            Mr. WAGNER objected to the amendment.
                            Mr. MILLER, was opposed to the bill.
                            Mr. HENDRY was in favor of the amendment, but would vote for the bill
                                whether it was adopted or not.
                            Mr. ODELL moved to amend the instructions so as to require the County
                                Board to pay out of the county treasury one third of the aim so
                                allowed.
                            Mr RICE hoped the bill would not be recommitted.
                            Mr. GREEN favored the first motion and opposed the last.
                            Mr. BENNETT moved to recommit with instructions to lay on the
                                table.
                            Mr. GREEN demanded a division of the question.
                            Mr. Studabaker's motion was not laid on the table by yeas 17, nays
                                19, as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Bennett, Carnahan,
                                            Conner, Cravens, Craven, Hamilton, Hargrove, Hill, Line,
                                            McClure, Miller, Murray, Odell, Rice, Steele, Thompson
                                            and Wagner - 17.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Blair, Cobb,Cooper,
                                            Fisk, Gooding, Green, Hendry, Johnston, Jones, Kinley.
                                            Lomax, March, Robinson, Shoemaker, Stovens, Studabaker,
                                            Turner, Williams and Wilson - 19.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. Odell's motion was laid on the table.
                            Mr. Studabaker's motion was agreed to.
                            And then the Senate adjourned.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                        
                            
                                MONDAY, February 21, 1859.
                            
                        
                        On motion by Mr. MURRAY, Messrs. Hartley and Thompson, of Elkhart, were
                            added to the select committee on Mr. Snyder's Penitentiary bill.
                        
                            PETITIONS.
                             BY Mr SUMMERS: The Claim of James R. Lambkin, of Craw ford county,
                                lor the apprehension of Elisha Brothers - $59 20; which was referred
                                to the Committee on Claims.
                            By Mr. WHEELER: A petition of citizens of of Allen county, with
                                reference to the Wabash and Erie Canal, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Canals.
                            Mr. EDWARDS, under a dispensation, submitted a resolution to return
                                Mr. Shield's bill (147) to authorize Road Companies to reduce stock
                                and shares, to the Senate; which on the motion of Mr. COMSTOCK, was
                                Said on the table.
                        
                        
                             REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                             By Mr. COLGROVE - Judiciary - returning the bill
                                (S. 112) amendatory of the City Corporation law, with
                                amendments:
                            The ninth section is amended so as to make the terms of office two
                                years of all the officers elect.
                            The original section made the term one year, except the Mayor and
                                City Judge, who held two years.
                            Section 17 is amended - requiring a special election to fill
                                vacancies, to be conducted in the same manner as biennial elections
                                are, instead of annual elections.
                            An additional section, after section 11, requiring Railroad Companies
                                to keep a light at the crossings, and provide a guard to prevent
                                accidents.
                            The 84th section is so amended as to prevent the city from annexing
                                contiguous territory of 5 acres or upward, used for gardening or
                                agricultural purposes, without the consent of the owner.
                            Which amendments were ordered to be engrossed, and the biil as
                                amended, to the third reading.
                            By Mr. DOUGHERTY, from the Committee on Fees and Salaries, returning
                                Mr. Devol's fee bill (211) amendatory of sections 2, 3, 4,7, 8 and 9
                                of the act of March 2, 1855, with an amendment by substitute.
                            The substitute was read.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY explained the bill. It makes but few radical changes.
                                The changes affect only Clerks, Sheriffs and Auditors. The object is
                                not so much a reduction of the fees, as to prevent abuses which have
                                grown up under the present, law. It makes reduction of the Clerk's
                                fees in business that relates to e[?]ettlement of estates and
                                guardianships. Issuing letters testamentary, are reduced from $1 to
                                75 cents - proving will, to 75 cents - qualification of
                                administrator, to 75 cents - recording claim, 25 cents examining
                                each administrator's settlement, 50 cents - examining report,
                                nothing - the Clerk to receive 25 cents for affidavit only when he
                                writes it; with other slight reductions.
                            The fees of Sheriff are not reduced. It cuts off extra allowance of
                                75 cents for summoning jury - the County Commissiner's allowance to
                                be in full. The bill corrects the abuse of Sheriffs charging 15
                                cents per mile for each convict sentenced to the State Prison at the
                                same term, instead of 15 cents for one, and 10 cents for each
                                additional convict - prescribing that all the convicts sentenced at
                                one term shall be taken at the 
                            
                        
                    
                    
                
                
                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 25, 1859.
                        No. 15.
                    
                    
                        
                            same time. It prevents also the Sheriffs' fees for services performed
                                by his bailiffs and paid out of the County Treasury. It prevents
                                duplications of allowance for extra services. The bill does not
                                reduce the specific fees of the County Auditor, but aims to correct
                                abuses under the present law. It allows 5 cents for each county
                                order, for each allowance - nothing for any additional order under
                                the same allowance. It allows ten cents per 100 words for copying
                                duplicates and land descriptions - for words and figures actually
                                written in the proper column, &c. It requires the Auditor to
                                make out his quarterly itemized statement of fees, under oath - to
                                be recorded in the County Commissioner's books, and published as
                                required by law.
                            Mr. BAIRD and Mr. MELLETT moved and pleaded ineffectually for its
                                reference to the Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr. HARNEY proposed to amend the bill, by adding the following:
                            The county treasurer shall not receive more than a thousand dollars
                                when the duplicate is less than $50,000, and for each $25,000
                                additional upon the duplicates, they shall be allowed $500 for clerk
                                hire; and he shall account for all money received except his fees
                                now allowed by law. which shall not exceed in the aggregate the
                                amount specified above.
                            The amendment was adopted.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY (under a motion to reconsider) stated that it was
                                against the constitution to amend a statute, without setting forth
                                the section amended.
                            Mr. PROSSER opposed the amendment.
                            Mr. HARNEY was willing to withdraw it, with notice of his intention
                                to bring it forward in a separate bill.
                            The SPEAKER. It cannot be withdrawn.
                            The vote was reconsidered, and the amendment laid on the table.
                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT, the bill was recommitted to the
                                    Committee on Fees and Salaries - yeas 40,
                                nays 28, as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. - Messrs. Austin, Baird, Blythe,
                                            Bowman, Boyd, Brotherton, Carr, Claypool, Colgrove,
                                            Comstock, Davidson, Early, Edwards, Fordyce, Gregory,
                                            Griffin, Hamilton of Boone, Hancock, Johnston, Jones,
                                            Lawhead, McLain, Mansfield, Mellett, Miller, Nebeker of
                                            Warren, Nelson, Row, Scott, Sherman, Shull, Snyder,
                                            Tebbs, Thompson of Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Turpie,
                                            Usrey, Wheeler Wood and Mr. Speaker. - 40.
                                        NAYS. - Messrs. Cavins, Clark, Davis,
                                            Dobbins, Dougherty, Gifford, Hall of Grant, Harney,
                                            Hunter, Jordan, Kelly, Lewis, Major, Merrifield, Murray,
                                            Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion, Parks, Prosser, Ritter,
                                            Shockley, Stanley, Stanfield, Summers, Waterman,
                                            Whetzel, Whiteman and Wildman - 23.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. SNYDER submitted the following instructions to said committee,
                                which were adopted:
                            
                                "Provide uniformity in the allowance to county
                                    auditors in making tax duplicates, and also for a limitation of
                                    fees of auditors' for transferring lands described in a single
                                    deed, so that the charge for the same shall not exceed five
                                    dollars."
                            
                             Mr. RITTER, not discourteously to the gentleman, but to prevent
                                debate, moved to lay the instructions on the table, the vote
                                resulting - yeas 35, nays 35; so the motion was lost.
                            The instructions were adopted - yeas 40, nays 30, as follows: 
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. - Messrs. Baird, Boyd, Branham,
                                            Cavins, Claypool, Clements, Colgrove, Collier, Davidson,
                                            Dobbins Devol, Early, Edwards, Fordyce, Gregory,
                                            Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hamilton of Boone, Hunter,
                                            Lawhead, McLain, Mellett, Miller, Martin, Nebeker of
                                            Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Prosser, Row, Sherman,
                                            Shull, Smith of Perry, Snyder, Stanley, Thompson of
                                            Madison, Turpie, Waterman, Wheeler, Whiteman, Wildman
                                            and Mr. Speaker - 40.
                                        NAYS. - Messrs. Blythe,
                                            Bowman,Brotherton, Carr,Clark, Comstock, Davis.
                                            Dougherty, Gifford, Hancock, Harney, Harrison, Johnston,
                                            Jones, Jordan, Keefer, Kelly, Lewis, Mansfield, Massey,
                                            Murray, Parks, Ritter, Scott, Shockley,, Tebbs, Thompson
                                            of Eikhart, Usrey, Whetzel and Wood - 30.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. DEVOL proposed instructions:
                            
                                "That the Committee on Fees and
                                        Salaries report back the original bill, (Mr.
                                    Devol's) striking out therefrom all that relates to county
                                    recorders."
                            
                            The SPEAKER ruled the proposition out of order.
                            Mr. MELLETT proposed additional instructions.
                            
                                "Add a section to the bill defining more
                                    clearly and explicitly the law in relation to the taxation and
                                    collection of docket fees of prosecuting attorneys."
                            
                            Mr. TURPIE demanded the yeas and nays upon which no quorum voted.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. Mellett's instructions were adopted, by yeas 47, nays 22.
                            Mr. DEVOL moved additional instructions:
                            
                                "Amend the bill so as to reduce one-fourth the
                                    fees of all clerks of the Circuit and Common Pleas Courts, and
                                    all county treasurers and auditors"
                            
                            Mr. SCOTT moved, ineffectually, that it lie on the table - yeas 36,
                                nays 36.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved, ineffectually, to make the instructions an "inquiry
                                into expediency," &c.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY. The only effect of the instructions would be to defeat
                                the bill.
                            Mr. DOBBINS (out of order) proposed to add instructions to reduce the
                                pay of members of the Legislature one-fourth.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, moved, ineffectually, to add to the
                                instructions:
                            
                            Provided, That no reduction shall be made where the
                                fees do not exceed $1,000.
                            Mr. Devol's instructions were rejected by yeas 36, nays 42.
                            Mr. MERRIFIELD, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill
                                (273) legalizing the change of highways by railroad companies, and
                                recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to engrossment.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, from the Swamp Lands Committee, returned the
                                petition from Vigo county, for a ditching law, with an adverse re
                                commendation; and the petition of John O. Dibble, of Lake county,
                                recommending indefinite postponement.
                            The reports were concurred in.

                            
                                LICENSE LIQUOR LAW.
                                On the motion of Mr. MURRAY, the House took up the Senate's
                                    amendments to Mr. Mansfield's liquor bill, No. 29.
                                On motion of Mr. DOUGHERTY, the Senate's amendments were
                                    considered separately.
                                The amendments to the third section were read.
                                Mr. MANSFIELD saw now a change in the opinion of temperance men -
                                    they being now willing to take conservative ground. Place the
                                    license and the bond too high, and honest men would be slow to
                                    run the risk. One thousand dollars for license, and two thousand
                                    dollars for the bond was too high; and the securities of bad men
                                    we e generally worthless. This and the four instead of two
                                    free-hold sureties was unfavorable to the general objects and
                                    beneficent aims of the bill.
                                The four sureties amendment and the maximum of license extended
                                    to $1,000 was then concurred in.
                                The Senate's change of the maximum of the bond from $500 to
                                    $2,000 in the 3d section, was concurred in, by yeas 41, nays 39
                                    - as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS. - Messrs. Austin, Blythe,
                                                Boyd, Brotherton,Carr, Cavins, Clark, Collier,
                                                Cotton, Davidson, Devol, Fordyce, Gregory, Hall of
                                                Grant, Hall of Hush, Hamilton of Boone, Hamilton of
                                                Wayne, Harrison, Hunter, Jeffries, Johnston, Jones,
                                                Knowlton, Lawhead, Mellett, Murray, Martin, Nebeker
                                                of Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Parks, Power,
                                                Ritter, Robinson, Scott, Shull, Thompson of Elkhart,
                                                Treadway, Whetzel, Whiteman, Wildman and Wood -
                                                41.
                                            NAYS. - Messrs Baird, Bowman,
                                                Branham, Clements, Comstock, Davis, Dobbins,
                                                Dougherty, Early, Gifford, Hancock, Harney, Jordan.
                                                Kelly, Kempf, Lewis, McLain, Major, Mansfield,
                                                Massey, Merrifield, Nelson, Newton, Prosser, Row,
                                                Sherman, Shields, Shockley, Smith of Miami, Smith of
                                                Perry, Stanfield, Summers, Tebbs, Thompson of
                                                Madison, Turpie, Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler and Mr.
                                                Speaker. - 39.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                The further amendments affixed by the Senate were severally
                                    concurred in, without a division, excepting the amendment
                                    striking out from section 15 the clause admitting druggists to
                                    sell for medicinal purposes; and this was also concurred in by
                                    yeas 53, nays 82; and excepting also the question of concurrence
                                    in the Senate's amendment allowing the manufacturer of wine and
                                    cider from fruits grown in the State, or any other person to
                                    sell such wine and cider in any quantity, whereupon the vote
                                    stood - yeas 41, nays 44, as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS. - Messrs. Baird, Blythe,
                                                Bowman, Boyd, Carr, Cavins, Clements, Davis,
                                                Dobbins, Early, Gifford, Hamilton of Boone, Hancock,
                                                Jones, Jordan, Keefer, Kelly, Kempf, Knowlton,
                                                Lewis, Major, Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker
                                                of Warren, Nelson, prosser, Row, Shields, Shockley,
                                                Shull, Stanfield, Summers, Tebbs, Thompson of
                                                Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Treadway, Turpie,
                                                Usrey, Waterman, Whetzel and Wood. - 41. 
                                            NAYS. - Messrs. Austin, Branham,
                                                Brotherton, Clark, Claypool, Colgrove,
                                                Collier,Comstock,Cotton, Dougherty, Devol, Fordyce,
                                                Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush,
                                                Hamilton of Wayne, Harney, Harrison, Hunter,
                                                Jeffries, Johnston, Lawhead, McLain, Mansfield,
                                                Massey, Mellett, Merrifield, Miller, Murray, Newton,
                                                Parks, Power, Ritter, Robinson, Scott, Sherman,
                                                Smith of Miami, Smith of Perry, Snyder, Stanley,
                                                Whiteman Wildman and Mr. Speaker. - 44. 
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. MANSFIELD voting under a protestation that this would open
                                    innumerable places to sell all sorts of intoxicating drinks
                                    under the name of blackberry wine, and cider without license,
                                    and so defeat the objects of the bill. He laid this to the
                                    charge of the temperance men.
                                So the House refused to concur in this amendment.
                                The Senate's additional section 18, revoking the license after
                                    conviction of a violation of this act, was also non concurred
                                    in, by yeas 34 nays 48.
                                Mr. DOBBINS moved to reconsider the vote concurring in the
                                    Senate's amendment striking-out from section 15 the clause
                                    permitting druggists to sell for medicinal purposes.
                                Which motion, on the motion of Mr. RITTER, was laid on the table,
                                    by yeas 54, nays 34.
                                Mr. KNOWLTON moved to reconsider the vote concurring in the
                                    Senate's amendment raising the bond from $500 to $2,000.
                                Which motion, on the motion of Mr. RITTER, was also laid on the
                                    table, by yeas 43, nays 38. 
                            
                            
                                 THE CALENDAR.
                                 Mr. Davis' bill (1) to provide for referring to the people at
                                    the next annual election the question of a Constitutional
                                    Convention, &c., coming up in order on the final reading, it
                                    failed for want of a constitutional majority - yeas 47, nays 39,
                                    as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Blythe,
                                                Branham, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark,Colgrove,
                                                Collier, Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Davis, Devol,
                                                Edwards, Fordyce, Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant,
                                                Hall of Rush, Hamilton of Wayne, Harrison, Hunter,
                                                Jeffries, Jones, Mansfield, Mellett, Merrifield,
                                                Miller, Murray, Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion,
                                                Nebeker of Warren, Parks, Power, Ritter, Scott,
                                                Sherman, Shull, Smith of Miami, Stanfield, Thompson
                                                of Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Treadway, Whetzell,
                                                Whiteman, Wildman and Mr. Speaker - 47.
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Bowman, Boyd, Carr,
                                                Claypool, Clayton, Clements, Dobbins, Dougherty,
                                                Early, Gifford, HamiIton of Boone, Hancock, Harney,
                                                Johnston, Jordan, Keefer, Kelly, Kempf, Knowlton,
                                                Lawhead, Lewis, McLain, Major, Masser, Nelson,
                                                Newton, Prossor, Robinson, Row, Shields, Shockley,
                                                Smith of Perry, Snyder, Summers, Tebbs, Usrey,
                                                Waterman, Wheeler, and Wood - 39.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. Colgrove's bill (47) reorganizing the Circuit Courts of the
                                    State, was rejected on the final reading - yeas 36, nays 47.
                                Mr. Martin's bill (58) authorizing the Governor to make
                                    requisition of Governors of other States for the recovery of
                                    fugitives from justice, was passed the final reading in the
                                    House of Representatives - yeas 81, nays 2, with an amendment of
                                    title, so as to read: An act relative to the making requisition
                                    for and the delivering up of fugitives from justice.
                            
                            
                                GAME LAW.
                                 Mr. Hamilton, of Boone's bill (64) to prevent the killing of
                                    wild game, &c., coming up - 
                                
                                Mr. DOUGHERTY said this was no game law - it allowed of any
                                    killing at any time, if the object was to preserve growing
                                    crops. He was willing to vote for a compromise on the question,
                                    but not for this.
                                Mr. CAVINS. I believe that all game laws are wrong - they are
                                    relicts of English aristocracy, promotive only of indolence,
                                    thrittlessness and dissipation. They are restrictions on the
                                    personal property of our citizens, that are incompatible with
                                    the spirit of Republican institutions. The amendment proposed by
                                    the bill under consideration is odious, as granting exclusive
                                    privileges to owners of lands, but not so bad as the law
                                    proposed to be amended. Therefore inasmuch as the Legislative
                                    has refused to repeal the game law, I will vote for the
                                    amendment.
                                Mr. DOUGHERTY moved, ineffectually, to lay the bill on the table
                                    - yeas 32, nays 47.
                                The vote on the final reading was then reported yeas 45, nays 34
                                    - as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            AYES - Messrs. Bowman, Boyd,
                                                Brotherton, Carr, Cavins, Clark, Clements, Collier,
                                                Devol, Early, Edwards, Griffin, Hall of Rush,
                                                Hamiltom of Boone, Hunter, Jeffries, Johnston,
                                                Jones, Kelley, McLean, Massey, Miller, Martin,
                                                Nebeker of Warren, Parks, Prosser, Ritter, Robinson,
                                                Row, Scott, Shields, Shockley, Shull, Smith of
                                                Miami, Smith of Perry, Snyder, Stanley, Tebbs,
                                                Turpie, Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler, Whetzel, Whiteman
                                                and Mr. Speaker - 44.
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Baird,
                                                Blythe, Branham, Comstock, Cotton, Davidson,
                                                Dobbins, Dougherty, Fordyce, Clifford, Gregory, Hall
                                                of Grant, Hancock, Harney, Harrison, Jordan, Keefer,
                                                Kempf, Lewis, Major, Mansfield, Mellett, Murray,
                                                Nebeker of Vermillion, Nelson, Power, Sherman, S tan
                                                field, Thompson of Elkhart, Thompson of Madison,
                                                Treadway, Wildman and Wood - 34.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                So the bill failed for want of a constitutional majority.
                                Mr. Early's bill (72) to amend sections one and two of the act of
                                    March 1, 1853, allowing compensation to the owner or owners of
                                    animals killed by railroad cars, and to provide for the manner
                                    of service of process, was passed the third and last reading in
                                    the House of Representatives, by yeas 60, nays 14.
                                Mr, CLEMENTS, by leave, entered his motion to rescind the order
                                    of Saturday for night sessions.
                                Mr. Brotherton's bill (91) to provide for the transfer of certain
                                    cases from the Common Pitas and Justices of the Peace, of
                                    certain cases therein named, was passed the final reading in the
                                    House of Representatives, by yeas 67, nays 4 [This bill takes up
                                    cases in attachment where any claim filed therein exceeds the
                                    jurisdiction of the Justice of the Peace, &c.]
                            
                        
                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.
                             Pursuant to he order adopted last Saturday, the House met at 7
                                o'clock p. m. - Mr. Edwards in the chair.
                            
                                NEW BILLS - UNDER DISPENSATION.
                                By Mr. COLLIER: a bill (310) to regulate the practice of medicine
                                    and surgery:
                                By Mr. AUSTIN: (311) to amend the 15th section of the felony act
                                    - [of seduction:]
                                By Mr. KEMPF: (312) to prohibit unqualified persons from
                                    practicing the science of medicine and surgery and the
                                    pharmacuetical act:
                                By Mr. CLEMENTS: (313) fixing the salaries of the Trustees of the
                                    Wabash and Erie Canal:
                                By Mr. CARR: (314) to repeal the 73d section of the assessment
                                    act of June 21, 1852:
                                By Mr. TURPIE: (315) to amend section 18 of the practice act of
                                    June 18,1852: [Notice to nonresidents:]
                                By Mr. WATERMAN: (316) to fix the time of holding Common Pleas in
                                    the counties of Steuben and DeKalb.
                                By Mr. HUNTER: (317) to prescribe punishment for the failure of
                                    any Auditor, Treasurer, Clerk or Recorder of any county in this
                                    State to perform the duties required of him by law:
                                Which bills were severally passed the first reading.
                                The SPEAKER announced the order of the consideration of bill from
                                    the Senate on the first reading, and the bills from the Senate
                                    numbered 23, 32,28, 39, 40, 174, 203, 16, 19, 27, 36, were
                                    severally passed the first reading.
                            
                            
                                 WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                                In the order of the consideration of bills on the second reading
                                    - 
                                Mr. Shield's [committee] bill (297), was referred to the
                                        Committee on Public Expenditures.
                                Mr. Griffin's [Committee on Roads] [bill 298] was referred to the
                                        Committee on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. Harney's (299), was referred to the Committee on
                                        Education.
                                Mr. Early'e (300), was refrred to Messrs. Early, Brotherton,
                                    Miller, Claypool and Lawhead.
                                Mr. Murray's (301), was referred to the Committee on
                                        County and Township Business.
                                Mr. Bowman's (302) to abolish the office of public printer,
                                    coming up - 
                                Mr. HUNTER moved to refer to the Select  Committee of
                                        Printers on Printing.
                                Mr. CLAYPOOL proposed to refer to a select committe of five.
                                Mr. GRIFFIN moved to lay the bill on the table.
                                Mr. TURPIE demanded the yeas and nays, and no quorum voting
                                    thereon - 
                                The House, at 8:20 o'clock, adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        IN SENATE
                        
                            TUESDAY, February 22, 1859.
                        
                         Mr. WILLIAMS presented a letter from one of his constituents on the
                            subject of milk sickness, claiming to have found the cause thereof that
                            it originates from the exhalation of metalic substances in the earth,
                            and that the same effects can be produced by the feeding of a cow upon
                            bran boiled in a copper kettle.
                        On motion by Mr. BROWN, the bill (H. R. 149) fixing the time of holding
                            the Common Pleas Courts in St. Joseph, Marshall and Starke, was taken
                            up, read the third time and passed by yeas 38, nays 0.
                        On motion by Mr. STEELE, his bill (69) to prevent the circulation of the
                            withdrawn currency of the old State Bank, and to punish persons
                            violating the provisions of this act, was taken up and passed - yeas 32,
                            nays 6.
                        On motion by Mr. KINLEY, his bill (134) providing for the assessment of
                            taxes for township library purposes, was read the third time.
                        
                        Senators Turner, Line, Hill, Murray anc Bobbs, favored the bill, and
                            Senator Carnahan opposed it.
                        The bill was then passed - yeas 29, nays 9.
                        On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, his bill (101) to authorize county treasurers
                            to assess property which may be omitted by assessors, and to legalize
                            assessments heretofore made by treasurers was read the third time and
                            passed - yeas 37 nays 0.
                        Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee returned Mr.
                            Studabaker's bill (240) to authorize Justices of the Peace, within their
                            respective counties, to administer oaths generally, and to legalize such
                            as have been made in good faith: and without fraud since the 6th day of
                            May 1853, recommending its passage. The report was concurred in.
                        On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, the bill was read the third time and passed
                            by yeas 37, nays 0.
                        Mr. BENNETT, from the same committee returned Mr. Conley's bill (176) to
                            amend sec tions 8 and 10 of the Justices' Act, approved June 9, 1852;
                            [proposing to give Justices concurrent jurisdiction to the amount of
                            $300;] recommending its indefinite postponement.
                        Mr. CONLEY urged the necessity of the passage of the bill and the
                            rejection of the report.
                        Senators Bennett, Slack, Stevens and Green favored concurrence in the
                            report
                        Senators Williams, March, Line and Johnston opposed concurrence.
                        The report of the committee was rejected - yeas 16, nays 24.
                         [A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of the
                            bill (H. R. 210) to create the 10th Judicial Circuit.]
                        Mr. JOHNSTON moved to recommit to the Judiciary Committee
                            - to so amend as to give Justices of the Peace jurisdiction on
                            all notes or written agreements for the payment of money not exceeding
                            $200.
                        Mr. SLACK made a motion to instruct the committee to amend so as to allow
                            an appeal from the Justice to the Township Trustee.
                        On motion by Mr. CONLEY this proposition was laid on the table.
                        Mr. WILLIAMS moved to instruct the committee to give Justices of the
                            Peace exclusive jurisdiction in sums of $200.
                        A division of the question was demanded.
                        Mr. Johnston's motion was agreed to.
                        Mr. Williams' motion was rejected>
                        The special order for this hour - Mr. Wagner's bill 187 - was made the
                            order for 2 o'clock today.
                        Mr. COOPER, from the Committee on the Benevolent Institutions of
                                the State, returned Mr. Turner's bill 67, recommending its
                            passage. The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be
                            engrossed.
                        Mr. HARGROVE. from the same committee, returned Mr. Bobbs' bill 52,
                            recommending that lie on the table. The report was concurred in.
                        Mr. O'BRIEN, from the same committee, returned Mr. Turner's bill 58, with
                            an amendment recommending its passage. The report was con curred in and
                            the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                        Mr. CRAVENS, from the same committee returned a Senate resolution of
                            inquiry as to the expediency of erecting an additional wing to the
                            Insane Hospital recommending that it is inexpedient at this time,
                            inasmuch as the finances of the State are embarrassed. The report was
                            concurred in.
                        Mr. SHOEMAKER, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
                            returned Mr Conley's bill 214, recommending that it lie on the table.
                            The report was concurred in.
                        Mr. STEVENS, from the Committee on Printing, returned
                            Mr. Hamilton's resolution,and Mr. Anthony's preamble and resolution of
                            inquiry on the subject of printing; also, various petitions on the same;
                            recommending that they lie on the table. The reports were concurred
                            in.
                        Mr. STUDABAKER, from the select committee thereon, returned the bill (25)
                            for the distribution of the Sinking Fund, recommending its passage with
                            the following amendments:
                        Amend 5th section as follows: insert after the word '"cancelled" the
                            words "the amount thereof, and the amount paid for the same," and add to
                            the bill the following section:
                        SEC. 15. All laws not inconsistent with this act, in regard to the
                            Sinking Fund, or giving powers to or prescribing the duties of the
                            Sinking Fund Commissioners, their officers, clerks, agents and servants,
                            or prescribing punishments again't them for malfeasance in office, that
                            were in force on the day preceding the 1st of January,1859, are hereby
                            declared to be in full force, and to apply to the present Board of
                            Sinking Fund Commissioners, and its officers clerks, agents and
                            servants, but all such laws as are inconsistent with this act are hereby
                            repealed.
                        The report was concurred in.
                        Mr. STUDABAKER moved that the bill be considered as engrossed, and read
                            the third time now.
                        Mr. BOBBS proposed to amend so us to provide as follows:
                        That the Auditor of each county shall report to the Board of
                            Commissioners of such county, at their annual meeting in March, any
                            losses the Sinking Fund distributed to such county may have sustained,
                            and which have not been secured or refunded at the time of making such
                            report; and it shall be the duty of such Commissioners to assess a tax
                            upon the taxables of such county, to reimburse said fund to the full
                            amount of such loss; and the Auditor shall place such assessment upon
                            his duplicate, and the Treasurer of the county shall collect the same as
                            the other taxes are collected for county purposes
                        Mr. STUDABAKER thought the proposition in itself may be right, but would
                            rather not see it placed in the bill at his present time.
                        Mr HAMILTON favored the amendment.
                        Mr. MURRAY, notwithstanding he was in favor of the original proposition,
                            should vote for the bill as it now is, whether this amendment be adopted
                            or not; but he insisted upon the adoption of the amendment.
                        Mr. WILLIAMS proposed as a substitute for the amendment, that when it is
                            ascertained there has been a loss, it shall be the duty of the County
                            Commissioners to pass an order upon the County Treasury for the amount
                            of such loss, unless it has occurred through the negligence or
                            misconduct of the county officers; and then they are to be held
                            responsible for such loss.
                        Mr. LINE could see no objection to the amendment. 
                        Mr. STUDABAKER proposed to raise no 
                            [se]rious objection to either of the amendments, but would prefer the
                            one submitted by Mr. Williams.
                        Mr. BOBBS accepted of the substitute, with the accountability of officers
                            stricken out - to which Mr, Williams agreed.
                        The amendment was then adopted.
                        The bill was read the third time and passed - yeas 33, nays 10, as
                            follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson, Blair,
                                        Brown, Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Conner, Cooper, Culver, Fisk,
                                        Green, Hamilton, Hargrove, Hendry, Hill, Johnston, Line,
                                        Lomax, McClure, McLean, March, Murray, Odell, Robinson,
                                        Shoemaker, Slack, Studabaker, Tarkington, Thompson, Turner,
                                        Williams and Wilson - 23.
                                    NAYS - Messrs. Bennett, Bobbs, Cravens,
                                        Jones, Kinley, O'Brien, Rice, Steele, Stevens and Wagner -
                                        10.
                                
                            
                        
                        The special order for 11 o'clock, being Mr. Conner's bill (212),
                            releasing the right of the State of Indiana, to redeem the Wabash and
                            Erie Canal, and granting permission to the trustees thereof to rent or
                            lease the same, was then considered.
                        Mr. CONNER occupied the floor in favor of his bill until the hour of 12,
                            when he gave way for the recess till 2.

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. McLEAN presented a remonstrance from certain lawyers of Terre
                                Haute, against the abolishment of the Court of Common Pleas, which
                                was referred to the Judiciary Committee.
                            Mr. CONNER resumed and concluded his remarks on his bill 212.
                            [A message from the House announced its adherence to its refusal to
                                concur in the Senate amendments to the temperance bill (H. R. 29)
                                and that Messrs. Murray, Mansfield and Dougherty, were the House
                                conferees thereon.
                            The PRESIDENT, pro tem., announced the special
                                order - Mr. Wagner's bill (178), creating six additional bank
                                districts; the question being on the amendment proposed by Mr.
                                March, as printed on page 218 of these reports.
                            Mr. ANTHONY thought it would give additional security to the bill
                                holder to increase these branches, and that it would be beneficial
                                to the interests of the State.
                            Mr. MARCH thought the increase of these branches would be an increase
                                of the powers of the Institution, whether they be for good or for
                                evil. He would not vote to give the bank additional powers, unless
                                it would consent to come under the control of the Legislature.
                            Mr. HAMILTON desired gentlemen to know that the bank does not ask for
                                this increase of its branches; and insisted that an increase of the
                                branches did not give it additional powers, but simply increased its
                                responsibilities.
                            Mr. GOODING was opposed to the bill, and thought the creation of the
                                additional branches proposed would increase the power and influence
                                ot this bank monster.
                            Mr. MURRAY objected to the amendment proposed, and contended that we
                                have no right to impose the restrictions upon the bank that are
                                contemplated in the amendment.
                            Mr. STEELE expressed himself as decidedly opposed to the amendment,
                                and if it was adopted there could be no chance of creating
                                additional brauches.
                            Mr. BENNETT moved to lay the amendments on the table.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER demanded a division of the question.
                            The first amendment - the one to section 15 - was not laid on the
                                table by yeas 17, nays 27.
                            The next amendment - the one to section 19 - was laid on the table -
                                yeas 24, nays 21.
                            The last amendment proposed by Mr. March Demanding an additional
                                section - was also laid on the table - yeas 24, nays 21.
                            The question then recurred on the adoption ot the amendment to the 15
                                th section - the one taxing banks the same as individuals.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER was willing to tax the banks for the amount of stock
                                paid in.
                            Mr. BENNETT proposed to amend by striking out the words "together
                                with the amount of their capital stock."
                            Mr. ANTHONY opposed the passage of the amendment, but would vote for
                                the bill as it is.
                            Mr. HEFFREN was opposed to the amendment, but would favor the
                                amendment to the amendment. The increase of branches would decrease
                                the profits of those already in operation.
                            Mr. MARCH objected to the amendment to the amendment, speaking at
                                length.
                            Mr. WAGNER. I like to see Senators debate a matter fairly and
                                honestly,and resort to the kind of arguments used by the Senator
                                from Delaware, who upon all occasions reports for the benefit of the
                                Senate, that same old buncombe sheech which we have all heard ever
                                since my earliest recollection. It is the same old speech against
                                banks, corporations and monopolies, and other associations to whom
                                we are indebted for all our improvements. He then gave way for a
                                motion to adjourn.
                        

                    
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                        
                            
                                TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1859.
                            
                        
                        Mr. Speaker GORDON (Mr. Davis in the Chair) moved to reconsider the vote
                            of Saturday, refusing to concur in the report of the Committee
                                on Claims adverse to the claims of certain persons in
                            Lagrange and Noble counties, to the extent of $2,000, on account of the
                            arrest of horse thieves, &c.
                        The vote was reconsidered.
                        Mr. Speaker GORDON then moved to amend the report so far as to admit of
                            the allowance of $1,000.
                        Mr. HUNTER. These claims, if paid at all, should be paid out of the
                            treasuries of the counties where the service has been performed. How
                            could this House investigate these remote cases? 
                        Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, concurred with Mr. Hunter. If this game of claims
                            was to be played upon the State Treasury, his county would come in for a
                            large share.
                        Mr. COMSTOCK. This claim was meritorious as any, but he had determined to
                            vote against the whole of them here, and leave them to their respective
                            counties.
                        Mr. Speaker GORDON replied to Mr. Hunter. That the claim was fairly
                            preferred, he argued the constitution of the Committee on Claims. The
                            gentleman's argument was striking at the very first principles of
                            justice. It was urged in forgetfulness of what is right between man and
                                 man, and the citizen and the
                            State. He spoke at length, giving examples.
                        Mr. COLGROVE considered the equity of the case. Upon what principle of
                            justice could the State be required to pay the counties for catching and
                            punishing their criminals? Why not pay all the costs - the witnesses and
                            clerks - in criminal cases?
                        Mr. MURRAY. Claims of this character had been allowed, and now when those
                            citizens of Lagrange and other northern counties come here by their
                            representatives, and ask for $1,000 of $6,000 which they have expended
                            under the Governor's requisition, where was the injustice? Such
                            allowances had been made heretofore without question.
                        Mr. MELLETT had been voting under the impression that claims of this
                            class ought not to be allowed, and he expected to continue to so
                            vote.
                        Mr. HUNTER spoke again. The allowance of claims arising out of costs in
                            criminal cases would break down the treasury of the State, &c. To
                            were wiser to have a law paying the prosecuting Attorneys and Sheriffs.
                            But such a law would be ruinous of the State finances.
                        Mr. DAVIS considered the importance of the principle of executing the
                            laws. You authorize your Governor to make requisition of fugitives from
                            other States, and then, by refusing this class of claims, yon paralyze
                            the arm of the Governor in this very thing. He would confine allowances
                            to cases oi services rendered under the Governor's requisition, &c.
                            There ought to be a remedy for the fact, that, because the State pays
                            nothing for criminal prosecutions, nearly all the talent of the bar was
                            commonly enlisted on the side of the defense.
                        Mr. THOMPSON, of Elkhart, alleged that the County Commissioners, and
                            others, in Noble, Lagrange and Steuben counties, had paid their full
                            share of the expense in these arrests of thieves and black legs. More
                            than $25,000 had been so paid. There was a man, now in this Hall, who
                            paid for this purpose a hundred dollars out of his own pocket.
                            &c.
                        Mr. SCOTT. The General Assembly might refuse to be generous, but, they
                            could not shirk the demands of Justice. He was surprised to hear
                            gentlemen declare they would not vote for any of these claims, no matter
                            how just the claim might be. Such was not the feeling that would actuate
                            him. He read names of several gentlemen whose claims, similar to these,
                            had been allowed during the present, session. It was very questionable
                            whether the County Commissioners have the right to make these
                            allowances.
                        Mr. AUSTIN moved to lay the report and amendment on the table.
                        Mr. DAVIS gave notice that, if this motion should not prevail, he would
                            move to recommit the report, &c., with instructions to inquire how
                            much had been actually expended in the case under the requisition of the
                            Governor.
                        The Clerk reported the vote - yeas 38, nays 47. So the House refused to
                            lay on the table and then - 
                        Mr. DAVIS submitted his motion to recommit with instructions.
                        It was recommitted without a division.
                        
                             THE FINANCES OF THE STATE.
                             Mr. HARNEY, (under a dispensation) from the Committee on Ways and
                                Means, returned the said committee's finance bill (195) with
                                amendments, as directed by instructions heretofore adopted by the
                                House, recommending the adoption of all the amendments except that
                                requiring the Treasurer to convert into specie all revenue received
                                by him in bank notes as fast as the same shall amount to $1,000.
                            Mr. HARNEY. The report provides for striking out from the bill all
                                that relates to County Treasurers and State Comptroller, and for
                                amending the fourth section, prescribing what moneys shall be paid
                                into the treasury, adding these words: "Eleventh.
                                All moneys arising from the sale of bank bonds or stocks deposited
                                under the provisions of the general banking law, and all moneys
                                belonging to or accruing to the State, or to any fund of the State:"
                                together with the amendment directed by the House, that whenever
                                payments shall be made into the State Treasury, in the notes of
                                solvent, specie-paying banks, to the amount of $1,000, it shall be
                                the duty of the Treasurer to convert the same into coin, by
                                presenting and demanding the specie thereon. The report recommends
                                the adoption of all but the last, which is recommended to be laid on
                                the table.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved a call of the House, and it was ordered that the
                                names of the following absentees be entered on the journal, viz:
                            Messrs. Black, Boxley, Durham, Eastham, Firestone, Hartley, Kempf,
                                Parrett, Stiles, Stinson and Sullivan.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY said the report did not embrace the instructions of Mr.
                                Robinson.
                            The SPEAKER. The instructions fall.
                            Mr. AUSTIN. The House adjourned when his instructions were
                                pending.
                            The SPEAKER. The adjournment cut them off.
                            Mr. MELLETT. The gentleman's instructions were incorporated in the
                                report amending the 13th section.
                            Mr. HARNEY demanded the previous question, and under its force, the
                                several amendments reported were adopted, and upon the
                                recommendation to lay on the table the clause requiring the bank
                                notes in the Treasury to be converted into coin, the vote stood -
                                yeas 46, nays 42.
                            So the report was concurred in, and the bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed, by yeas 51, nays 37.
                            Mr. HUNTER moved that the bill be considered as engrossed, and read
                                the third time now.
                            The motion was agreed to under the pressure of the previous question,
                                and the bill, being again read through by the Clerk, was passed the
                                final reading in the House of Representatives, by the following
                                vote:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Boyd, Branham,
                                            Brotherton, Cavins Clark, Claypool, Colgrove, Collier,
                                            Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Devol, Fordyce, Gifford,
                                            Gregory, Hall of Grant Hall of Bush, Hamilton of Boone,
                                            Hamilton of Wayne, Harney, Harrison, Hunter, Jeffries,
                                            Johnston, Kempf, Major, Mansfield, Mellett, Miller,
                                            Murray, Martin, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of
                                            Warren, Newton, Parks, Power, Ritter, Row, Rynerson,
                                            Scott, Sherman, Shields, Smith of Miami, Smith of Perry,
                                            Stanfield, Thompson of Elkhart, Usrey, Waterman,
                                            Whetzel, Whiteman, Wildinan and Mr. Speaker - 52.
                                        
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Blythe, Bowman,
                                            Carr, Clayton, Clements, Davis, Dobbins Dougherty,
                                            Early, Hancock, Hartley, Jones, Jordan, Keefer, Kelley,
                                            Knowlton, Lawhead, Lewis, McLain, Massey, Merrifield,
                                            Nelson, Prosper, Robinson, Shockley, Shull, Snyder,
                                            Stanley, Summers, Tebbs, Thompson of Madison, Treadway,
                                            Turpie, Wheeler and Wood - 36.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the House took up the Senate's last message
                                on the disagreeing voles on the Mansfield bill, (No. 29,) and moved
                                that the House insist on its nonconcurrence in the Senate's
                                amendment to Mr. Mansfield bill, (No. 29,) admitting the
                                manufacturer of wine or cider, from fruits grown in this State, or
                                any other person, to sell such wine or cider without license.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD. The Senate had returned the bill with a number of
                                amendments. The House accepted them all except two; of which one
                                was, that the license shall be forfeited in case of any breach of
                                any of the provisions contained in the bill. The Senate has since
                                conceded that point and set it aside. The other amendment attached
                                by the Senate, and rejected by the House, was this: That not merely
                                the manufactured of wine and cider from fruits grown in this State
                                shall be permitted to sell the same in any quantity without license,
                                but "any other person." These words "any other person," were
                                objected to by the House. I understand that this amendment of the
                                Senate was adopted in a great hurry, and the gentleman who made it,
                                told me that it was not, his design to enable the manufacturers ot
                                wine and cider to keep tippling houses, but merely to encourage the
                                farmer in making these things, which are less harmfulth an whisky or
                                brandy. But now this additional clause in the bill, That it shall
                                not be drank on the premises where sold, will give us the advantage
                                in the free conference, and there is no doubt but the Senate will
                                immediately accede this mistake. I hope the House will insist, and
                                that we shall yet, be able to succeed in making this bill not merely
                                a good license law, but also a good temperance law.
                            Mr.BAIRD and Mr. AUSTIN. The Senate's amendment went only to allow
                                the manufacturer to sell.
                            Mr. HUNTER. The effect of the Senate's amendment would be to make
                                every grocery-keeper in the State a manufacturer.
                            Mr. MURRAY preferred the Committee on Free Conference.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY had submitted this clause originally, and he construed
                                it, and hoped the House would insist.
                            Mr. PROSSER concurred with Mr, Baird.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush. There was obscurity, and laws should be so framed
                                as to avoid misconstruction.
                            The House then adhered to its amendment,and ordered the appointment
                                of a committee of free conference, which the SPEAKER makes to
                                consist of Messrs. Murray, Mansfield and Dougherty.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK, undor a dispensation, from the Committee on Roads,
                                returned Mr. Shields' bill (250), to compel County Boards to declare
                                all surveyed roads which pass through one or more counties, public
                                highways,&c., recommending indefinite postponement.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            On motion by Mr. AUSTIN, the orders being dispensed with for the
                                purpose, the House took up from the table and considered the bill
                                (S. 142) amendatory of the assessment law of 1858the question being
                                on ordering the bill to the third reading.
                            Mr. AUSTIN proposed to recommit the bill to a select committee of
                                three, with instructions to amend the 7th and 13th sections of said
                                act, which instructions were read. The act of the extra session
                                requires a description ot lands, lots. &c., "by metes and
                                bounds;" the instructions are to amend in sections 7 and 13, so as
                                to require only a general description - thus saving perhaps a
                                thousand dollars to each county in the State, and attaining all the
                                ends of the bill just as well.
                            The bill was ordered to be so referred, and the instructions agreed
                                to.
                            On motion by Mr. HUNTER, the said committee was further instructed to
                                amend the said act of 1858 in the 20th section. He said the act
                                required the County Auditor to file all these statements, for which
                                he is entitled to a fee of five cents each, and which, in a large,
                                rich county, would amount to five or six hundred dollars. He merely
                                proposed to strike out the word "file," and leave the direction,
                                "shall carefully preserve the same.
                            Mr. EARLY. The Auditor was obliged to file these statements, and the
                                gentleman might better obviate the difficulty by inserting the
                                words, "without charge." 
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             The SPEAKER announced the following committee on the Senate bill (S.
                                142), and proposed amendments, viz: Messrs Austin, Stanfield and
                                Hunter.

                            
                                THE SINKING FUND - SCHOOL LAW.
                                 Mr. BOWMAN asked and obtained a dispensation to present the
                                    following memorial from a citizen of Washington county, which
                                    was referred to the Committee on Education.
                                    It is as follows:
                                
                                    To the Honorable, the Senate and House of
                                        Representatives of the State of Indiana:
                                
                                Every man is, or ought to be, interested in whatever relates to
                                    the cause of education and science. There appears to be great
                                    diversity of opinion as to the best and safest plan of investing
                                    the Sinking Fund - the main reliance, in future, for the support
                                    of Common Schools. Your memorialist would venture, with your
                                    permission, to make one or two suggestions to your honorable
                                    body.
                                If a public debt is a public blessing and to be perpetuated for
                                    all coming time, there might be a seeming propriety in
                                    converting the Sinking Fund into State or United States bonds,
                                    but in view of the growing sentiment in favor of the speedy
                                    liquidation of all public indebtedness, and the constitutional
                                    barrier in the way of contracting new debts, except in a few
                                    specified cases of great emergency and for limited periods - it
                                    follows most conclusively, that public stocks can not furnish a
                                    reliable investment for that purpose.
                                It is not necessary to stop to consider whether the Sinking Fund
                                    might not be invested profitably and safely in bank stock,
                                    because as banks are at present organized, the people will never
                                    consent to confide a trust so sacred to their keeping.
                                What, then, shall be done with the Sinking Fund? It ought, as
                                    your memorialist believes, to be apportioned and distributed
                                    amongst the several counties of the State, on the basis of
                                    population, as may be ascertained by the next census, and loaned
                                    on mortgage of real estate, under the laws now regulating the
                                    loaning of other trust funds, when amended as follows: 
                                
                                Amend section 60, revised school law, so as to require the
                                    township trustees, alone, to appraise any land offered in
                                    mortgage.
                                Amend section 67, so as to require that the sum loaned shall not
                                    excel one-third o the appraised value of the premises proposed
                                    to be mortgaged, clear of all perishable improvements.
                                Or, let the value of all real estate offered in mortgage he
                                    determined by the County Auditor from the returns of the County
                                    Appraisers on file in his office, and allow mortgage to be
                                    executed without the signature of the wife, if surviving.
                                This plan submitted creates no new officers, involves no
                                    additional expense, places the security of the fund on a basis
                                    not to be questioned, and whatever advantages accrue from the
                                    use of the money, the people of the whole State share equally
                                    among thousands. J. I. MORRISON.
                                Salem, February 12,1859.
                            
                            
                                WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
                                 Mr. WHEELER submitted the following, which was adopted:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved,That the Trustees of the
                                                Wabash and Erie Canal be requested to inform this
                                                House if it is probable that they can not maintain
                                                tbe Wabash and Erie Canal in navigable condition,
                                                and if so, to state the reasons why; and in that
                                                event, what legislation, in their opinion, if any,
                                                is necessary to enable them to maintain or cause to
                                                be maintained, navigation on said Canal, and whether
                                                such legislation would in any manner involve a
                                                change in the arrangement and settlement with the
                                                bond-holders, made in 1846 and in 1847.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                 By Mr. STANFIELD - Organisation of Courts -
                                    returning his bill (280) giving the Clerks of the Common Pleas
                                    Court the right of making certified copies of records and papers
                                    in the former Probate Court, recommending passage.
                                The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                                By Mr. WHETZEL - Agriculture - returning Mr.
                                    Stanfield's bill (272) defining the meaning of the word "fence,"
                                    as used in the act of June 4, 1852, recommending passage.
                                It was ordered to engrossment.
                                By Mr. NELSON - Rights and Privileges -
                                    returning Mr. Harney's bill (265) to amend sections 8 and 11 of
                                    the misdemeanor act, with an adverse recommendation.
                                It was laid on the table.
                                By Mr. BROTHERTON - same committed - returning Mr. Snyder's bill
                                    (271) making it a felony to cut down, or cut down and carry away
                                    any standing timber, or to carry away any down timber in certain
                                    cases, with recommendation that it be laid on the tableas in the
                                    opinion of the committee legislation on that subject is
                                    inexpedient.
                                The bill was laid on the table accordingly.
                                Mr. PARKS - same committee - returning Mr. Snyder's bill (290)
                                    repealing the 6th section of the act of May 12, 1852, concerning
                                    promisory notes and bills of exchange, recommending that the
                                    same be laid on the table.
                                The report was concurred in.
                                Mr. EARLY, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill
                                    (300) providing for certain legal notices in a newspaper at the
                                    county seat, recommending passage.
                                The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                                Mr. COLGROVE, from the select committee thereon, returned his
                                    bill (131)) to abolish road districts in incorporated towns,
                                    with an amendment by substitute: [work done by Supervisers
                                    within the limits of the incorporation shall be done under the
                                    direction of the town council - leaving the Supervisor with
                                    liberty to work the hands anywhere in the road district.]
                                The amendment was adopted, and the bill ordered to be
                                    engrossed.
                                On motion by Mr. COLGROVE, the bill was considered as engrossed,
                                    and passed the third and last reading in the House of
                                    Representatives-yeas 66, nays 6.
                            
                            

                                THE CALENDAR.
                                 The Judiciary Committee's bill (94)
                                    supplemental to the Exemption Act of February 17, 1852, was
                                    passed the final reading in the House of Representatives - yeas
                                    61, nays 4.[The debtor shall give a schedule of his property
                                    before he can be entitled to the benefits of the act.]
                                Mr. Parks' bill (108) for protection of wild cranberries, was
                                    passed the final reading - yeas 69, nays 14.[Nothing herein to
                                    prevent any person from gathering on his own grounds.]
                                Mr. Shull's bill (178) to fix the time of the Common Pleas in
                                    Blackford county, was passed the final reading - yeas 82, nays
                                    0.
                                Mr. Edwards' bill (135) dispensing with bond by executors in
                                    certain eases, was rejected on the final reading - yeas 20, nays
                                    62.
                                Mr. Davis' bill (139) to amend the 9th section of the 5th article
                                    of chapter first, part 3d, of the Revised Statutes of 1852, was
                                    rejected on the final reading - yeas 6, nays 69.
                                Mr. Baird'sbill (134) to amend the first section of the act
                                    concerning real property and the alienation thereof, approved
                                    May 6, 1852, was laid on the table - Mr. B. not being in his
                                    place.
                                Mr. Clement's bill (129) touching pleadings in abatement, was
                                    lost for want of a majority - yeas 49, nays 42. [It provides
                                    that dillatory proceedings shall be sworn to.]
                                Mr. Davis' bill (152) to provide for transcripts of records in
                                    the Recorder's office in certain cases, and for the
                                    admissibility of the same or copies thereof, was passed the
                                    final reading in the House of Representatives - yeas 72, nays
                                    5.
                                Mr. Nebeker., of Warren's bill (6) amendatory of the law in
                                    relation to new counties and county boundaries coming up - 
                                Mr. SHULL made an ineffectual motion to lay it on the table.
                                Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, and Mr. RYNERSON set forth the provisions
                                    and the emergency for the passage of the bill.
                                The bill was then rejected - yeas 31, nays 46.
                                The Temperance Committee's bill (114) to
                                    prohibit the sale, barter, or giving away of any mixed,
                                    spiritous, malt or intoxicating liquors, coming up - 
                                On motion by Mr. KNOWLTON, it was laid on the table, on a
                                    division - affirmative 40, negative 39.
                                Pending the consideration of Mr. Sales' bill (128) relative to
                                    practice in the Supreme Court in the construction of bills of
                                    exception - 
                                The House at 4 o'clock adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1859. 
                        
                        Mr. HEFFREN obtained leave to vote "aye" on Mr. Studabaker's bill (25)
                            for the distribution of the Sinking Fund, passed yesterday morning.
                        
                        The PRESIDENT pro tempore laid before the Senate a
                            communication from one of his constituents, praying for the passage of a
                            joint resolution extending the time of paying taxes until after harvest,
                            which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
                        Mr. HENDRY, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr. Blair's bill 213,
                            with amendments, recommending its passage.
                        The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                        
                            FEES OF OFFICERS.
                             Mr. RICE, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Shoemaker's bill 233, to regulate the fees of officers, with
                                amendments, recommending its passage.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. STUDABAKER moved to amend by inserting in the proper place
                                "except that, in counties where the Sheriff's fees do not exceed
                                $800, the County Commissioners may make such an additional allowance
                                for extra services as may appear just."
                            Senators Heffren, Green, Slack and Miller objected to the amendment,
                                and Senator Hamilton favored it.
                            The amendment was rejected.
                            Mr. GOODING moved to amend section 8 so as to provide that no County
                                Auditor shall be allowed out of the county treasury more than $1,000
                                per annum.
                            Senators Hamilton and Anthony opposed the amendment.
                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, it was laid on the table.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to lay the whole subject on the table.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 14, nays 28.
                            Mr. MARCH moved to add to the first section as follows:
                            A complete record shall not be made in any case in the Supreme Court
                                unless requested by one or both parties, and shall be paid for by
                                the party requesting it; and, if made by both parties, it shall be
                                paid for in equal proportions.
                            Mr. GOODING moved to amend section 8 by requiring the County Auditors
                                to file with the Board of County Commissioners quarterly a written
                                statement, subscribed to under oath, giving a detailed account of
                                all fees received during the quarter.
                            Mr. BENNETT would not vote upon the amendment, because he should vote
                                against the bill anyhow.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to lay this amendment on the table.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 16, nays 27.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON opposed the amendment.
                            Mr. HAMILTON moved to reconsider the vote first taken.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS favored the motion. 
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            The amendment was not laid on the table.
                            Mr. SHOEMAKER moved to amend the amendment by adding after the word
                                "all" in the last line the words "services for which he asks an
                                allowance."
                            Mr. GOODING accepted.
                            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, Clerks and Sheriffs were added.
                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, County Surveyors were added.
                            On motion by Mr. GOODING, the word "quarterly" was stricken out of
                                his amendment.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to amend by inserting as follows:
                            Clerks and Sheriffs shall be entitled to receive such reasonable
                                allowance for extra services as the Board of Commissioners think
                                right and proper, to be paid out of the County Treasury.
                            Mr. RICE favored and Mr. GREEN opposed the amendment.
                            Mr HEFFREN moved to lay the whole subject on the table, for the
                                purpose of taking up the printing bill 192.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 16, nays 28.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON withdrew his amendment, and substituted the first
                                section [section 25] on page 229 of vol. 1, Revised Statutes of
                                1852, striking out the word "Auditor" and inserting "$200'" for
                                "$100."
                            The amendment was adopted.
                            On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, the Commissioness were authorized to
                                furnish the necessary record books for the county officers.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            On motion by Mr. GOODING, Senators Gooding, Murray and McLean were
                                appointed a committee to confer with the House committee on the
                                temperance bill H. R. 29.
                            On motion by Mr. BLAIR, the vote on the engrossment of his bill 213
                                was reconsidered and the bill recommitted to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                             Mr. CONLEY, from the Finance Committee, returned
                                Mr. Slack's bill 6, [described on pages 20 and 21 of the reports],
                                recommending that it lie on the table The report was concurred
                                in.
                            Mr. CONNER, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Murray's bill 210, recommending its passage. The bill was
                                ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. SLACK, from the same committee, returned his bill 229,
                                recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. RICE, from the same committee, returned Mr. Hill's bill 234,
                                recommending that it lie on the table. The report was concurred
                                in.
                        
                        
                            SALARIES OF JUDGES AND PROSECUTING ATTORNEYS.
                            Mr. BENNETT, from the same committee, returned Mr. McLoan's bill 207,
                                [described on page 175 of these reports], recommending its
                                passage.
                            Senators Heffren, Murray, Conner and Bennett opposed concurrence.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to lay the report on the table.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN moved to lay on the table both the bill and report.
                            Mr. HEFFREN demanded a division of the question.
                            The report was then laid on the table - yeas 34, nays 11.
                            The bill was not laid on the table - yeas 20, nays 24.
                            On motion by Mr. McLEAN, all after the first section was stricken
                                out.
                            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, "$1,500" was inserted in the place of
                                "$1,800," and "$1,200' in the place of "$1,500"yeas 26, nays 19.
                            
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, "$1,300" was inserted in the place of
                                "$1,200" in the amendment just adopted.
                            Mr. MILLER moved to amend by giving the Prosecuting Attorneys "$300"
                                instead of "$500."
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the amendment was laid on the table
                            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to amend so that, when the Attorney is not
                                personally employed he shall pay the fee of his substitute.
                            On motion by Mr. GOODING, the amendment lays on the table.
                            Mr. CONNER moved to amend by allowing the District Attorney a salary
                                of $200 per annum, payable out of the State Treasury quarterly.
                            On motion by Mr McLEAN, the amendment was laid on the table.
                            Mr. McLEAN moved that the bill be considered as engrossed and read
                                the third time now.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 25, nays 21.
                            The bill passed by yeas 28, nays 19, as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Brown, Cobb, Conner, Culver, Gooding,
                                            Green, Hamilton, Hendry, Hill, Kinley, McLean, March,
                                            Murray, O'Brien, Odell, Rice, Slack, Steele, Stevens,
                                            Studabaker, Thompson, Turner, Wagner and Williams -
                                            28.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Bobbs, Carnahan,
                                            Conley, Cooper, Craven, Fisk, Hargrove, Heffren
                                            Jennings, Johnstons Jones, Line, Lomax, McClure, Miller,
                                            Robinson, Shoemaker, Tarkington and Wilson - 19.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                             Mr. SLACK, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Conley's bill (201), requiring surviving partners to give a bond
                                of inventory and make a report of their proceedings to a court
                                having jurisdiction, with amendments, recommending passage, The
                                report was concurred in.
                            Mr. MURRAY, by unanimous consent, amended the bill by inserting in
                                the proper place the words "and also the interest of the decedent in
                                said partnerships."
                            On motion by Mr. CONLEY, the bill was considered as engrossed, read
                                the third time and passed by yeas 45, nays 0.
                            Mr. HENDRY, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Shoemaker's bill 230, recommending that it lie on the table. The
                                report was concurred in.
                            Mr. BENNETT, from the same committee, returned Mr. March's bill (48)
                                abolishing the office of Attorney General: recommending passage.
                            Tbe report; was concurred in upon a division - affirmative 24 - and
                                the bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. ANTHONY, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned his bill (182) recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            [On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the special order - Mr. Jennings' joint
                                resolution No. 11 was postponed till 7 o'clock.]
                            Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Green's bill 115, with amendments, recommending passage.
                            On motion by Mr. JONES, the report and bill were laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. COBB, from the Committee on Corporations,
                                returned Mr. Odell's bill (103) recommending the adoption of a
                                substitute therefor.
                            On motion by Mr. COBB, the bill was read a third time and passed -
                                yeas 39, nays 5.
                            On motion, Senate bills 102, 85 and taken from the table and placed
                                upon the files.
                            The following bills were introduced and passed the first reading:
                            By Mr. MURRAY: (247), fixing the compensation of Governor [$3,000]
                                and members of the General Assembly [$4 per day and 12 cents
                                mileage.]
                            By Mr. BOBBS: (248), to amend section 26 of an act providing for
                                opening, changing or vacating of highways, approved June 11,
                                1852.
                            Mr. LINE offered a resolution, which was rejected upon a division -
                                affirmative 18, negative 18 - giving the use of the Senate Chamber
                                to night for a meeting of the Indiana Historical Society.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, Mr. Wagner's bill (187) creating six
                                additional blanches of the Bank of the State of Indiana was
                                considered.
                            Mr. BENNETT withdrew his amendment-striking out the words "together
                                with the amount of their capital stock" - for the purpose of
                                allowing -
                            Mr. STUDABAKER to offer a substitute for the pending amendment [the
                                first one printed on page 218 of these Reports, proposed by Mr.
                                March,]which will make section 2 read as follows:
                            The capital stock and real estate of said bank and branches shall be
                                subject to the same rate of taxation for State and county purposes,
                                as the capital or property of individuals is taxed, which taxes
                                shall be paid by the bank or branches.
                            Senators Heffren and Murray favored the substitute, Senator March
                                opposing.
                            After further debate by Senators Bobbs, Tarkington, Robinson and
                                Williams - 
                            The substitute was adopted - yeas 30, nays 17.
                            Mr. WAGNER moved that the bill be considered as engrossed and read
                                the third time now, and upon that motion he demanded the previous
                                question.
                            There being a second, the bill was read the third time - yeas 26,
                                nays 18and failed to pass, by yeas 24, nays 19 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Brown,Conner, Cooper, Cravens, Culver,
                                            Green. Hamilton, Heffren, Hill, Johnston, Jones, Murray,
                                            Odell, Rice, Steele, Stevens, Tarkington, Thompson,
                                            Turner and Wagner. - 24.
                                        NAYS. - Messrs. Bobbs, Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Craven,
                                            Fisk, Gooding, Hargrove, Hendry, Kinley, Lomax, McClure,
                                            March, Miller, O'Brien, Robinson, Slack, Williams and
                                            Willson - 19.
                                    
                                
                            

                            
                                THE PUBLIC PRINTING.
                                 On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the printing bill 192 was
                                    considered.
                                Mr. CONLEY thought the bill was to legislate the present State
                                    printer out of office. He was willing to reduce the prices paid
                                    for printing but would not vote for the bill because it turns
                                    the present State Printer out of office.
                                Mr. HEFFREN stated that the present State Printer goes out of
                                    office the first day of August, anyhow, for his commission only
                                    extended to that time.
                                
                                Mr. HAMILTON said he would not vote to abolish the office, but
                                    would vote to reduce the prices.
                                Mr.STUDABAKER moved to recommit the bill to a select committee,
                                    with instructions to so amend the bill as to continue the office
                                    of State printer, but to reduce the prices now paid for the
                                    public printing.
                                Mr, HEFFREN moved to lay the motion to recommit on the table.
                                The motion was agreed to-yeas 28, nays 16.
                                Mr. STUDABAKER moved to recommit with instructions to strike out
                                    section 10.
                                Mr. SLACK moved, as additional instructions, to amend so that the
                                    superintendence of the pubic printing, the binding and
                                    distributing of the laws be let to the lowest bidder.
                                Mr. MURRAY demanded the previous question.
                                There being a second, under its operation, the motion to recommit
                                    was lost - yeas 16, nays 29; and the bill passed by yeas 31,
                                    nays 14 - as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Beeson, Bennett,
                                                Blair, Bobbs, Brown. Conner, Cooper Cravens, Craven,
                                                Culver, Green, Heffren, Hendry, Hill,
                                                Johnston,Kinley, Lomax, McClure, March, Murray,
                                                Odell, Rice, Robinson, Shoemaker, Steele, Stevens,
                                                Tarkington, Thompson, Turner, Wanner and Williams -
                                                31.
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb,
                                                Conley, Fisk, Gooding, Hamilton, Hargrove, Jones,
                                                Line, McLean. Miller, Slack, Studabaker and Wilson -
                                                14.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. GOODING makes the following explanation of his vote: Mr.
                                    President, it is well known to this Senate that I favor a great,
                                    reduction of the prices paid the State Printer, and would so
                                    vote, but I can not now consent to abolish the office, believing
                                    as I do that personal reasons and political considerations have
                                    prompted this attempt to abolish the office after the election
                                    of Colonel John C. Walker, a Democrat. Again, I say that I am
                                    anxious to reduce the costs of State printing at least thirty
                                    three per cent., and would have voted to abolish the office
                                    before the election, but, neither party seemed willing at that
                                    time. I say now let us reduce the prices, but
                                    not abolish the office. Another objection to this bill is, that
                                    I fear the object is to establish at the Capital an
                                    office-holders' organ to take charge of the Democratic party,
                                    the State Sentinel having lost its character
                                    and power as a Democratic paper.
                                Mr. McLEAN makes the following explanation of his vote: He
                                    opposed the bill from the belief that under its provisions there
                                    would be more abuses than under the present law - that under its
                                    provisions it would cost the State as much to do the public
                                    printing as under the existing laws. This has been the
                                    experience of other States which have let out the printing to
                                    the lowest bidders. If the present law is defective, and the
                                    cost of printing under its provisions is too high, let the law
                                    be amended or modified and the cost of printing reduced. Under
                                    the law proposed the letting out of the printing would be a
                                    matter of personal or partisan favoritism with foe Secretary of
                                    State, who has charge of it, and as such he should oppose the
                                    bill under consideration.
                                So the bill passed the Senate.
                            
                            
                                WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
                                On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, the bill (212) releasing the right of
                                    the State to redeem the Wabash and Erie Canal, was
                                    considered.
                                On motion by Mr. CONNER a communication from the Attorney
                                    General, giving as his legal opinion on the bill under
                                    consideration that there was nothing in it which could be
                                    construed to make the State liable, was read by the
                                    Secretary.
                                On motion by Mr. STEELE it was ordered to be spread upon the
                                    journal.
                                Mr. LINE moved to amend Mr. Carnahan's motion on page 217 of
                                    these reports by inserting a provision that if any person or
                                    persons shall take the canal and fail to keep up the bridges,
                                    the State shall not be bound to pay for the bulling or repairing
                                    of said bridges.
                                Mr. CRAVENS [Mr. Wagner in the Chair] spoke against the bill, not
                                    that he opposed it in principle, but because he apprehended the
                                    provisions of the bill were such as would bring upon the State
                                    many and complicated difficulties.
                                [ A message from the Governor announced his approval and
                                    signature of the bills (H. R 16) defining misdemeanors; (H. R.
                                    20) prohibiting the carrying of concealed weapons; (H. R. 259)
                                    changing the time of holding the Courts of Common Pleas in the
                                    counties of St. Joseph, Marshall and Stark, and (H. R. 27)
                                    authorizing road companies to consolidate their stock with
                                    similar companies]
                                Mr. RICE wished to be heard briefly upon the bill under
                                    consideration - as no subject of legislation affected his
                                    constituents more vitally than the question of maintaining the Wabash and Erie Canal, and while he
                                    was opposed here and elsewhere to appropriating one cent out of
                                    the State Treasury for such purposes - and while he was also
                                    opposed to the passage of any law, which would in the slightes
                                    degree involve the State in any liability to the the Bondholders
                                    for that portion of our public debt which was discharged by the
                                    transfer of the Wabash and Erie Canal - yet he was in favor of
                                    and his constituents asked of this Legislature such legislation
                                    as would prevent that great work traversing the the State
                                    diagonally from north-east to south west, a distance of some
                                    three hundred and eighty miles, and that, too, through the
                                    richest and fairest portion of the State, from abandonment and
                                    general ruin. And while the bill under consideration vigilantly
                                    guarded the interests of the State, it provided the needful
                                    legislation for the mantainance of the Canal. He could not see
                                    the force or pertinence of the objections to the bill the idea that the State, by relinquishing the
                                    right of redemption of the Canal, thereby incurred or revived
                                    the original debt liquidated by its transfer, seemed to him
                                    preposterous and absurd. He did not so understand the law. or
                                    common sense, as applied to the business transactions of life.
                                    He discussed the bill by sections, and was in favor of its
                                    general provisions. He further proceeded to show how his
                                    constituents would be effected by the abandonment of the Canal.
                                    This work passed through the entire length of his county - a
                                    distance of more than thirty five miles-and at least one million
                                    of bushels grain were shipped annually from his county upon the
                                    Canal. During the suspension of navigation last summer, when his constituents had
                                    to de end upon the railroad for the transportation of their
                                    grain, they had to pay three cents additional to Canal
                                    transportation - this item of three cents per bushel, would lose
                                    to his constituents some thirty thousand dollars - then the
                                    additional expense of hauling one half millions of bushels of
                                    grain to the railroad, would be at least five cents per bushel,
                                    which-would make some twenty-five thousand dollars more- These
                                    two items would make some fifty-five thousand dollars, which his
                                    constituents would lose annually by the abandonment of the
                                    Canal. The Canal traversed some fourteen counties, and he
                                    supposed his to be an average - then multiply the above sum by
                                    fourteen, and you have the enormous sum of more than three
                                    quarters of a million o dollars that these counties would lose
                                    annually by the abandonment of the Canal. These considerations
                                    he urged upon the consideration of the Senate, and particularly
                                    upon those Senators who were not immediately interested.
                            
                            
                                 NIGHT SESSION.
                                Mr. LOMAX, by leave, from the select committee thereon, returned
                                    his bill (205) fixing the time of holding Common Pleas Courts in
                                    the counties of Washington, Harrison, Orange and Crawford.
                                On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the bill was read the third time and
                                    passed - yeas 40, nays 0.
                                The special order - Mr. Jenning's joint resolution (11) on the
                                    subject of the African Slave Trade and Colonization, was now
                                    considered.
                                Mr. KINLEY moved to amend by striking out the words "and also
                                    relieving us of a population, which although with us, can never
                                    be of us in social or political rights."
                                Mr. McLEAN demanded the previous question.
                                There being a second, the amendment was rejected yeas 10, nays
                                    33.
                                The resolution was then adopted - yeas 30, nays 13.
                                Mr. GOODING, from the Committee on Free Conference, returned the
                                    bill (H. R. 20) on temperance, recommending that the Senate
                                    secede from its engrossed amendment, and the a option of an
                                    additional section. [See House proceedings.]
                                Mr. Murray favored and Mr. Heffren opposed.
                                Mr. McLEAN moved that the Senate concur in the report of the
                                    committee.
                                The motion was agreed to, by yeas 23 nays 18, as follows: 
                                
                                    
                                        

                                            YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                                Bennett, Cobb, Cooper. Cravens, Culver, Gooding,
                                                Green, Hendry, Jones, Line, McLean, March, Murray,
                                                Rice, Robinson. Steele, Studabaker, Thompson,
                                                Turner, Wagner, and Wilson - 23.
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Brown, Carnahan,
                                                Conner, Fisk, Hamilton, Hargrove, Heffron, Johnston,
                                                Kinley, Lornax, McClure, Miller, O'Brien, Odell,
                                                Shoemaker, Slack, Stevens, and Tarkington - 18.
                                        
                                    
                                

                                 Mr. GOODING makes the following explanation of his vote: Mr.
                                    President, I shall now vote for this bill, regarding it as the
                                    only chance of obtaining any law at this session. Rather than go
                                    home and leave the State and the people without any law to
                                    protect them from the evils of intemperance, I will vote for any
                                    constitutional bill on this subject, however objectionable some
                                    of its unimportant i may be.
                                One objection I have to the bill is prohibiting the sale of cider
                                    or native wine by another person than the manufacturer, in less
                                    quantity than one gallon. I do not indorse or approve the bill,
                                    but only support it between the unrestricted sale of liquor
                                    consequent evils, and this bill with its imperfections.
                                 Mr. TURNER makes the following explanation of his vote:
                                Mr. President - It is well known that I have uncompromisingly
                                    opposed this bill from the first, but there are some provisions
                                    in the bill that I heartily approve of, while the main portions
                                    of it I as heartily oppose. Believing, as I do, that traffic in
                                    intoxicating liquors is a great moral as well as political evil,
                                    fostering pauperism, misery and crime, and producing more evil
                                    than any or all other crimes known in this or perhaps any other
                                    country, I could not, under any circumstances, lend my influence
                                    to legalize so great a wrong; and believing that this provision
                                    is not wrong in itself, but calculated to make the bill more
                                    acceptable to the temperance people of Indiana. Believing that
                                    if it fails now, it willbe impossible to pass any Temperance Law
                                    this session; I, therefore, solemnly protesting against the
                                    right of any Legislature to license a moral evil, reluctantly
                                    vote "aye."
                                The PRESIDENT pro tempore decided that the bill
                                    should be yet read through and passed by yeas and nays.
                                Mr. MURRAY appealed from the decision of the Chair
                                Mr. SLACK moved to lay the appeal on the table.
                                The motion was rejected - yeas 13, nays 29.
                                The question being shall the decision of the Chair stand as the
                                    judgment of the Senate? It, was not so decided yeas - 20, nays
                                    23.
                                Mr. HEFFREN gave notice of a protest against such ruling
                                On motion of Mr MCLEAN the Wabash and Erie Canal bill (212),
                                    [described on page 179 of these Reports] was taken up.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, February 23, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                             Mr. STANFIELD submitted the following:
                            Mr. Speaker - The Committee on the Judiciary, to
                                whom House bill 261, to amend section 77 of an act to revise,
                                simplify and abridge the rules of practice and pleadings, &c.,
                                so as to prevent sham pleadings, have had the same under
                                consideration, and directed me to report the same hack and recommend
                                its passage. Cases arise in the Common Pleas Court where great
                                injustice is done by reason of the merest sham and trickery in
                                pleading, that ought not to be tolerated in any court, yet as the
                                law is now held, the court is powerless over such pleading. Take a
                                case like this, an action is brought in that court to recover a
                                judgment on a promissory note; the defendant appears and answers
                                that the note was given to the plaintiff for a tract of land and
                                that he had no title to it, whereby the consideration of the note
                                had failed. The answer, if true, would be good, but it is wholly
                                false. The note was given for personal property, yet the plaintiff
                                must reply and deny the defendant's answer. That bringing into
                                question the title to real estate, the court is ousted of
                                jurisdiction. The plaintiff must dismiss his action, pay the costs
                                and suffer the delay, and all this because that court has no power
                                over false and knavish pleading.
                            By Mr. STANFIELD from same committee reporting that Mr. Cotton's bill
                                (274), for  fencing square No.
                                25 in the town of Indianapolis, and adopting the same for a
                                State-house site, is inexpedient, and recommend indefinite
                                postponement.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            He also returned Mr. Blythe's bill (281) providing for the
                                incorporation of canal companies, with an emergency section, which
                                was adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. TURPIE - from same committee returned Mr. Edwards' bill (270) for
                                the protection of railroad fence, recommending passage.
                            It was ordered to engrossment.
                             He also returned Mr. Griffin's bill (32) providing for the
                                redemption of land sold by sheriffs, &c., recommending that it
                                be laid on the table.
                            It was laid on the table accordingly.
                            He also returned Mr. Wildman's bill (151) to repeal the 15th section
                                of the act authorizing notes to be given covering valuation and
                                appraisement laws, recommending indefinite postponement.
                            It was postponed accordingly.
                            Mr. MELLETT, from same committee, returned Mr. Davis' bill (275)
                                authorizing reports and documents for the Warden of the State
                                Prison, recommending that it be laid on the table.
                            It was laid on the table accordingly.
                            He also returned Mr. Hall, of Rush's, bill (71) defining residence of
                                an elector, &c., recommending indefinite postponement.
                            It was postponed accordingly.
                            Mr. COLGROVE, from same committee, returned Mr. Prosser's bill (289)
                                to amend the Divorce Act of May 30, 1852, recommending that
                                legislation thereon is inexpedient, and asking to be discharged from
                                the consideration of the subject.
                            The bill was laid on the table.
                            He also returned Mr. Edwards' bill (292) requiring preference to be
                                given to graduates of the schools for the Deaf and Dumb and Blind,
                                asking to be discharged from its consideration. 
                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, from the Committee on Swamp
                                    Lands, returned the bill (S. 13) to amend the Swamp
                                Land Act of May 29, 1852, with an amendment:
                            Amend, verbally, and amend the 35th section of said act, so that the
                                Swamp Land Commissioners all present an authorized account of
                                services for himself, engineer, &c., which shall be verified
                                under oath, for allowance by the County Board.
                            The amendment was agreed to, ordered to be engrossed, and the bill
                                ordered to the third read.
                        
                        
                            HORSE-THIEF DETECTORS - REGULATORS.
                             Mr. WILDMAN, from the Committee on Claims, reported on the claims of
                                citizens of Lagrange and other north-western counties: That near
                                $1,000 had been expended for services under the Governor's
                                requisition; that $1,300 of that sum remained in unpaid individual
                                notes - recommending that the latter sum be allowed and included in
                                the general appropriation bill.
                            Mr. BAIRD took ground against all encouragement of Horse-thief
                                Detecting organizations, regulators, &c., severely denouncing
                                their practices, &c.
                            Mr. WILDMAN replied, justifying these organizations.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, opposed concurrence.
                            Mr. GIFFORD demanded the previous question.
                            Mr. KEEFER moved to lay the report on the table - the vote resulting
                                - yeas 51, nays 35 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Baird. Blythe,
                                            Bowman, Brotherton, Carr, Cavins, Colgrove, Collier,
                                            Dobbins, Dougherty, Durham, Devol, Early, Edwards,
                                            Fordyce, Gifford, Gregory, Hall of Rush, Hamilton of
                                            Boone, Hamilton of Wayne, Hancock, Hartley, Hunter,
                                            Jeffries, Johnston, .Jones, Keefer, Kelly, Kempf,
                                            Lawhead, Lewis, Massey, Mellett, Miller, Nebeker of
                                            Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Nelson, Parks, Parrett,
                                            Prossor, Robinson, Rynerson, Shull, Tebbs, Thompson of
                                            Madison, Treadways Usrey, Wheeler, Whiteman and Wood -
                                            51.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Boxley, Pranham, CIark,
                                            Claypool, Clayton, Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Davis,
                                            Hall of Grant, Harney, Harrison, Jordan, Knowlton,
                                            McLain, Major, Mansfield, Merrifield, Murray, Newton,
                                            Power, Ritter, Row, Scott, Sherman, Shockley, Smith of
                                            Miami, Stanley, Stanfield, Summers, Thompson of Elkhart,
                                            Waterman, Whetzel, Wildman and Mr. Speaker - 35.
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the report lies on the table.
                            On the motion of Mr. WILDMAN, the votes allowing the claims ot John
                                E. Foudray and John H. Arr, of Marion county, were reconsidered and
                                then the said claims were laid on the table.
                            Mr. ROBINSON, from the Committee on Fees and
                                    Salaries, asked to be discharged from the
                                consideration of the claim of William and Allen Fleming.
                            The matter was laid on the table.
                            Mr. BOXLEY, from a majority of the Committee on
                                    Claims, recommended the allowance of the claim of Wm.
                                H. Whitehead.
                            On motion of Mr. THOMPSON, of Madison, it was laid on the table.
                            Mr. SCOTT moved, ineffectually, to reconsider this vote.
                        
                        
                             RIGHT OF REDEMPTION.
                            On the motion of Mr. GRIFFIN, the vote of this morning, laying his
                                bill No. 32 on the table, was reconsidered, to enable him to submit
                                a minority report thereon from the Judiciary
                                    Committee, which he read, reasoning at length against
                                the adverse report of the majority, and in favor of the bill:
                            This bill proposes that when real estate is sold on execution, or
                                order of sale, the judgment debtor may have one year to redeem it by
                                paying to the purchaser six per cent, interest and six per cent,
                                penalty, and if the debtor fails to redeem in that time any other
                                judgment creditor may redeem it in three months thereafter - and the
                                officer or person selling the same is to give a certificate of
                                purchase to the purchaser, which is assignable by indorsement in
                                writing, in the same way that a note or bill of exchange is
                                assignable. It also gives the purchase the possession of real
                                estate, and makes him accountable for waste. It thus affords an easy
                                and legal means whereby money may he invested at 12 per cent., and
                                at the same time gives the debtor an opportunity to save himself
                                from ruin should the land not be redeemed at the end of 15 months
                                from the day of sale Upon the presentation of the certificate the
                                officer who sold the same or his representative, is to make a deed,
                                which is final. This is a provision that has been on the statutes of
                                Illinois for twenty years, and Ohio nearly as long. This bill will
                                serve as a temporary relief to the debtor under our present
                                financial crisis.
                            Messrs. Baird, Merrifield and Colgrove opposed the bill; and Messrs.
                                Nebeker, of Warren and Griffin defended the provisions of the
                                bill.
                            
                            The bill was again laid on the table - yeas 48, nays 34as
                                follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Baird, Blythe, Bowman,
                                            Boyd, Boxley, Branham, Brotherton, Carr, Cavins,
                                            Clements, Colgrove, Collier, Comstock, Cotton, Davidson,
                                            Davis, Dobbins. Devol, Early, Edwards, Fordyce, Gregory,
                                            Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hancock, Harney, Harrison,
                                            Hunter, Johnston, Jones, Jordan, Kelley, Kempf, Lewis,
                                            Mellet, Merrifield, Martin, Nelson, Parrett, Power,
                                            Prosser, Ritter, Scott, Shields, Smith of Miami,
                                            Stanfield, Summers, Thompson of Elkhart, Wood and Mr.
                                            Speaker - 48.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Clark,
                                            Claypool, Dougherty, Durham, Gifford, Griffin, Hamilton
                                            of Boone, Hartley, Jeffries, Reefer, Knowlton, Lawhead,
                                            Major, Wassey, Murray, Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of
                                            Warren, Parks, Robinson, Row, Rynearson, Sherman,
                                            Shockley, Smith of Perry, Snyder, Stanley, Tebbs,
                                            Thompson of Madison, Usrey, Waterman, Whetzel, Whiteman
                                            and Wildman - 34.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. Dougherty (under a dispensation) reported from the
                                    Committee on Fees and Salaries, a bill (318)
                                amendatory of section 12 of the act regulating the tees of officers,
                                and repealing former acts in relation thereto, approved March 2,
                                1855, which was passed the first reading.
                            Mr. TURPIE (under a dispensation) returned Mr. Waterman's bill (277)
                                to amend the 58th section ol the act of March 2, 1855, regulating
                                fees and salaries, from the Committee on Fees and
                                    Salaries, recommending passage.
                            The bill was ordered to engrossment.
                        
                        
                             THE FINANCES OF THE STATE.
                            On motion by Mr. HUNTER, the Embezzlement bill No. 192, of the series
                                of bills reported from the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means, was taken up.
                            Mr. SMITH, of Perry, from said committee, in obedience to what was
                                understood to be the instructions of the House, reported an
                                amendment striking out that which relates to County Treasurers.
                            Mr. STANFIELD trusted the House would not strike out. If the
                                provision were just, it should apply to all public officers
                                alike.
                            Mr. COLGROVE concurred with Mr. S.
                            Mr. TURPIE hoped a felony would not be created for such causes, and
                                especially in such terms as embodied in this bill. It made it a
                                felony for a public officer to deposit the public moneys with his
                                wife, as it might be, &c.
                            Mr. SMITH, of Perry. The committee were satisfied with the bill as it
                                is, &c. The object of the amendment was not to disturb the right
                                of the County Treasurers to use or loan the county funds, leaving
                                him to his local responsibility, and to confine the felony to
                                officers of State. We want to stop this system of loaning the funds
                                of the State, whether with fraudulent intention or not. These moneys
                                belong to the State, and should be kept in the hands of their legal
                                custodians.
                            On motion by Mr. TURPIE, the bill and pending amendment were referred
                                to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            On motion by Mr. HUNTER, the committee's bill No. 193 of the same
                                series, was referred to the Committee on Fees and
                                    Salaries.
                            On motion by Mr. COLGROVE, the Senate's amendment to his bill (H R.
                                93) to amend the Divorce laws, were considered and concurred in,
                                excepting the 5th and 7th, in which the House refused to concur.
                                [These last affect cases where divorces have been granted.]
                        
                        
                             NEW BILLS - UNDER DISPENSATION.
                             By Mr. STANFIELD, (319) to enable forwarding and commission
                                merchants, common carriers and consignees to enforce liens on
                                property under claim.
                            By Mr. TEBBS, (320) declaring it to be a misdemeanor to obstruct any
                                street or alley in any incorporated town, and prescribing penalty
                                therefor.
                            By Mr. DOUGHERTY, (321) regulating, the rates or exchange in certain
                                cases therein named and declaring its usury, &c. [To prevent
                                corporations and individuals from taking a greater rate of interest
                                than six per cent., under color of exchange ] Under a dispensation,
                                this bill was read twice and referred to Messrs. Dougherty, Martin,
                                Hamilton of Boone, Prosser and Hunter.
                            By Mr. TREADWAY, (322) authorizing the State Board of Agriculture to
                                make a geological reconnoissance of the State for the collection
                                specimens. [ Appropriates $1,000.]
                            Which bills were passed the first reading.
                            Mr. AUSTIN, from the Committee on Public
                                Buildings, reported against erection of a new building for
                                State offices - the present rent being less than the interest on the
                                money necessary in build, &c.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. KNOWLTON, from the select committee on the impeachment petition
                                of citizens of Cass and Miami, reported, that the same be referred
                                to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            The report was concurred in.
                        
                        
                            NEW STATE PRISON.
                             Mr. SNYDER, from the select committee on the Penitentiary bills Nos.
                                294, 295, 296, recommended that Nos. 294, 296 be laid on the table,
                                and that No. 295 be amended by substitute- [constituting the Auditor
                                and Secretary of State a Board of Control - to select a site north
                                of the Wabash river subject to the approval of the Governor - to
                                issue proposals for the structure, with 300 cells - the cost not to
                                exceed $50,000, &c.]
                            Mr. HUNTER submitted a minority report-signed by himself and Mr.
                                Devol.
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the report of the minority was laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. HUNTER moved to reconsider this vote.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved to lay that motion on the table,and the vote was
                                reported - yeas 50, nays 33, as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Blythe, Boxley,
                                            Clark, Clayton, Clements, Colgrove, Comstock, Davidson,
                                            Edwards, Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton
                                            of Wayne, Wheeler, Harney, Harison, Jeffries, Keefer,
                                            Kelly, Knowlton, Lawhead, McLain, Major, Mansfield,
                                            Merrifield, Murray, Nebeker of Warren, Newton, Parks,
                                            Parrett, Power, Robinson, Row, Scott, Sherman, Shull,
                                            Snyder, Stanley, Stanfield, Stiles, Tebbs, Thompson of
                                            Elkhart, Thompson of Madison, Treadway, Turpie,
                                            Waterman, Whiteman, Wildman and Mr. Speaker - 50.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Bowman, Cavins, Davis,
                                            Dougherty, Durham, Devol, Fordyce, Gifford, Gregory,
                                            Hamilton of Boone, Hancock, Hartley, Hunter, Johnston,
                                            Jones, Jordan, Kempf, Lewis, Massey, Mellett, Martin,
                                            Nebeker of Vermillion, Nelson, Ritter, Rynearson,
                                            Shields, Shockley, Smith of Miami, Smith of Perry,
                                            Summers, Usrey, Whetzel and Wood. - 33.
                                        Mr. Collier was excused.
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
                            Mr. DAVIS submitted the following:
                            
                            That the various bills before the House in relation to the erection
                                of a new State Prison, and also the bill reported by the Committee
                                on the Affairs of the State Prison be referred to the Committee on
                                the Affairs of the State Prison,with the following instructions:
                            First, To provide for the enlargement of the
                                State'sPrison, the enlargement not to cost, however, more than the
                                sum of twenty-five thousand dollars.
                            Second, To make it the duty of the Directors of the
                                State Prison to examine and select some suitable point in the north
                                part of this State, for a new State Prison, and report the same to
                                the Governor before next Legislature.
                            Mr. DAVIS said he offered this because the State had no money to
                                build, &c.
                            Mr. SNYDER. Strange that the State had not money to build at $50,000,
                                when the bill of the gentleman from Monroe was to appropriate
                                $60,000 toward the enlargement of the old prison.
                            On the motion of Mr. SCOTT, the motion and instructions were laid on
                                the table - yeas 52, nays 30.
                            The report by Mr. SNYDER was then concurred in, the substitute
                                adopted, and ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. AUSTIN, from the select committee on the Senate assessment bill
                                (S. 142), returned the same with the amendments embraced in the
                                instructions adopted yesterday, and so amended, he recommended the
                                passage of the bill.
                            The amendments were adopted.
                            Mr. STANFIELD proposed to amend by striking out from the first
                                section all after the word "situation" in the 43d line, and
                                inserting:
                            That the appraiser, in estimating the value of such railroads, plank
                                roads, &c., shall take into consideration the location of the
                                same for business, the amount of its gross and net earnings, and the
                                condition of such roads for present and future business, so as to
                                enable him to arrive at the true value of such roads, without
                                reference to their cost or indebtedness.
                            Mr. STANFIELD. The assessment act of the extra session treats this
                                property as real estate. This bill repeals that act so far as the
                                road beds and iron on the track are concerned, and hence the
                                necessity for this amendment. The difficulty was to equalize
                                appraisements, and there was not now time to perfect a system, and
                                in the mean time he considered the amendment the best that could be
                                done.
                            Mr. BRANHAM submitted that a fair value could not be attained where
                                the roads are not entirely within our own State. His plan would be
                                to compel the valuation of the road as a whole, and distribute it
                                among the counties in proportion to the distance run, subject to the
                                revision of the Board of Equalization. He contended for the
                                principle of the act of 1852, and gave examples.
                            On motion by Mr. STANFIELD, the bill and amendment were referred to
                                the Judiciary Committee.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr USREY, by leave, presented the petition of John Grigsby, and
                                other citizens of the county, with reference to the distribution of
                                the school fund, which was referred to the Committe on
                                    Education.
                            Mr. EDWARDS, by leave, introduced a bill (323) to authorize married
                                women over 18 and under 21 years of age to unite with the husband in
                                conveying or mortgaging real estate, with the permission of a
                                guardian, where the wife has neither father nor mother residing in
                                this State, which was passed the first reading.

                            
                                THE CALENDAR.
                                 The Horse resumed the consideration of bills on the third
                                    reading, and Mr. Stiles' bill (128) regulating practice in the
                                    Supreme Court in the construction of bills of exception, set
                                    forth in transcripts, was passed the final reading in the House
                                    of Representatives - yeas 67, nays 16.
                                Mr. Scott's bill (121), for the protection of fish in the lakes
                                    and running streams of this state, was rejected on the third
                                    reading - yeas 21, nays 54. [Fine not less than $5.]
                                Mr. KEEFER moved a reconsideration of this vote, for - 
                                Mr. DOUGHERTY and Mr. SCOTT, who plead for the protection of fish
                                    during the spawning season, and the vote was reconsidered.
                                The question recurring on the third reading - 
                                Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, moved to recommit, with instructions to
                                    allow fishing in rivers navigable by steamboats.
                                On motion by, Mr. CAVINS, the motion and instructions were laid
                                    on the table.
                                And then the bill was again rejected - yeas 34 nays 52.
                                Mr. Whetzel's bill (124), to prohibit throwing any dead animal
                                    into any running stream in this State, was passed the final
                                    reading - yeas 90, nays 1, with an amendment of title, so as to
                                    read: An act to prohibit the throwing or depositing of any dead
                                    animal in any running stream or body of water in this State, and
                                    to prohibit the burying of any dead animal on the banks of the
                                    same.
                                Mr. Hunter's bill (128) for the protection of railroad companies,
                                    coming up - 
                                Mr. KEEFER objected, that it would b unjust to farmers along the
                                    track, who could not cross the road bed without being subject to
                                    a fine of $3.
                                Mr. HUNTER. These road beds ought not to be used as public
                                    highways.
                                Mr. PARKS objected to the bill. It was not demanded by the
                                    railroad companies; and if they desired it, they might fence,
                                    &c.
                                Mr. THOMPSON of Madison also objected to the bill.
                                On the motion of Mr. CAVINS, it was referred to a select
                                    committee, with instructions to amend so as to permit all
                                    persons to cross railroad tracks over private ways.
                                Mr. HAMILTON of Boone, proposed to add: "when necessarily engaged
                                    in the business of the farm."
                                The amendment to the instructions was agreed to, so the matter
                                    was referred to Messrs Cavins, Hunter, Mellett, Branham and
                                    Sherman.
                                On motion by Mr. DAVIS, his Constitutional Convention bill (No.
                                    1) was again put upon its passage.
                                Mr. BOYD though opposed to the bill, and preferring amendments to
                                    be had according to the provisions of the Constitution itself,
                                    yet upon consideration, it could not be improper to refer the
                                    question to the people, and he should now vote for the bill.
                                The bill was passed the final reading in the House of
                                    Representatives - yeas 56, nays 33 - as follows: 
                                
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Austin, Blythe,
                                                Boyd, Boxley, Branharn, Brotherton, Cavins, Clark,
                                                Colgrove, Collier, Comstock, Cotton, Davidson,
                                                Davis, Durham, Duvol, Edwards. Fordyce, Gregory,
                                                Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Hush, Hamilton of
                                                Wayne, Harrison, Hartley, Hunter, Jeffries,
                                                Johnston, Jones, McLain, Mansfield, Mellett,
                                                Merrifield, Miller, Murray, Martin, Nebeker of
                                                Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Parks, Power, Ritter,
                                                Rynearson, Scott, Sherman, Shull, Smith, of Miami,
                                                Smith of Perry, Stanfield, Stiles, Tebbs, Thompson
                                                of Elkhart, Treadway, Whetzel, Whiteman, Wildman and
                                                Mr. Speaker - 56.
                                            NAYS - Messrs. Bowman, Carr,
                                                Claypool, Clayton, Clements, Dobbins, Dougherty,
                                                Early, Gifford, Hamilton of B., Hancock, Harney,
                                                Jordan, Keefer. Kelly, Kempf, Lawhead, Lewis, Major,
                                                Massey, Nelson, Newton, Parrett, Prosser, Row,
                                                Shields, Shockley, Snyder, Summers, Thompson of
                                                Madison, Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler and Wood - 33.
                                        
                                    
                                

                                Mr. Baird's bill (134) to amend the first section of the act of
                                    May 6, 1852, concerning the alienation of real property, was
                                    passed the final reading - yeas 77, nays 6. [It allows the wife,
                                    married in this State but residing abroad, to hold real
                                    estate.]
                                On motion by Mr. PARRET, his bill (105) compelling owners of town
                                    lots to grade and pave sidewalks, was put again on its passage,
                                    and the Clerk reperted the vote - yeas 52, nays 31
                                So the bill passed the House of Representatives.
                                Mr. Boyd's bill (136), for the protection of sidewalks in towns
                                    and villages, was passed the final reading - yeas 71, nays
                                    13.
                                Mr. Blythe's bill (38), declaratory of the meaning of the first
                                    section of the act, of May 31, 1852, as to who may make a will.
                                    &c., and to legalize wills made by married women since that
                                    date, &c., was passed the final reading in the House of
                                    Representatives - yeas 79, nays 8.
                                Mr. Snyder's bill (144), to authorize railroad companies to issue
                                    bonds, to fix the rate of interest thereon, and to authorize
                                    sale and conveyance of railroads and their franchises, and to
                                    vest the title thereto in the purchasers, to provide for a new
                                    Board of Directors; to authorize railroads to consolidate their
                                    stock, to assume a new name defining their rights and
                                    liabilities, was passed the final reading - yeas 56, nays
                                    27.
                                Mr. Stanfield's bill (150), to amend the practice act of June 18,
                                    1852, requiring answers to be drawn before a judgment or default
                                    against a non-resident shall be set aside; authorizing property
                                    taken on execution to be held in certain cases; judges in
                                    vacation to appoint receivers; providing for the faithful
                                    discharge of their duties; to modify or reinstate orders of
                                    injunction granted in vacation; provisions in relation to the
                                    continuance of causes, and the sale of property on the
                                    foreclosure of mortgage, was passed the final reading - yeas 79,
                                    nays 8.
                                Mr. Boxley's bill (198), to prohibit tho owners of any bull,
                                    boar, or ram from allowing the same to run at large, failed on
                                    the third reading - yeas 49, nays 33, for want of a
                                    constitutional majority. It was subsequently passed - yeas 54,
                                    nays 34, on the motion of Mr. Fordyce.
                                Mr. Davis' bill (160), to amend the first section of the act of
                                    February 12, 1855, for extending the time of Circuit Court by
                                    adjournment to authorize the judge to hold such special terms,
                                    to fix his compensation therefor, and that of the Prosecuting
                                    Attorney attending the same, was passed the final reading - yeas
                                    74, nays 11. [This bill was passed and signed at the extra bill
                                    session, but a mistake in the engrossing of an amendment
                                    vitiated the act.]
                                Mr. Hunter's bill (167), providing Sheriffs' fees for conveying
                                    convicts to the State was passed the third reading - yeas 72,
                                    nays 6.
                                The Committee on Public Expenditures' bill
                                    (170) reorganizing the State Board of Colonization, and
                                    repealing former acts on the subject, failed on the third
                                    reading - yeas 46, nays 39-for want of a constitutional
                                    majority, and for want, perhaps of constitutional terms; for it
                                    provides that the members of the Board shall hold six years,
                                    whereas the Constitution admits of no official term longer than
                                    four years.
                                Mr. Baird's bill (171) making it a misdemeanor for a Clerk to
                                    refuse to issue summons, &c., was passed the final reading -
                                    yeas 69, nays 7.
                                Mr. Davis' bill (173) to amend the 4th section of the act
                                    incorporating mining and manufacturing companies and companies
                                    for mechanical, chemical and building purposes, was passed the
                                    final reading - yeas 73, nays 8. [Stockholders therein shall be
                                    individually liable in amount equal to the stock held by them
                                    respectively.]
                                Mr. Mellett's bill (175) to amend the 11th sec of the act of May
                                    14,1852, to establish a Court of Common Pleas, so as to extend
                                    the jurisdiction of said Court in certain cases, was passed the
                                    final reading - yeas 72, nays 11.
                            

                            
                                THE MANSFIELD LIQUOR LICENSE LAW.
                                Mr. MURRAY, from the committee on free conference on the
                                    disagreeing votes between the two Houses on the Senate's
                                    amendment to the Mansfield liquor license bill (No. 29),
                                    recommended a substitute for said amendment to the following
                                    effect:
                                SEC. 15. Nothing contained in this act shall
                                    be so construed as to prohibit the sale or barter, in any
                                    quantity, by the manufacturer of wine or cider manufactured from
                                    fruits grown in this State by the manufacturer or any other
                                    person; provided, that said manufacturer shall not sell or
                                    barter such wine or cider to be drank, or suffer the same to be
                                    drank in his house, out-house, yard, garden or in any of his
                                    premises.
                                The report was concurred in, and the amendment adopted.
                            
                        
                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. Bowman's Public Printing bill (302) and Mr. Merrifield's (305)
                                were laid on the table, being considered on the second reading.
                            Mr. Davis' (403) and Mr. Phillips' (308) were referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. Dobbins' (304) was referred to Messrs. Dobbins, Jones, Stanfield,
                                Turpie and Hunter.
                            Mr. Brotherton's(306) was referred to Messrs. Brotherton, Mellett,
                                Bowman, Dougherty and Prosser.
                            Mr. Major's (307) and Mr. Waterman's (316) were ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                             Mr. Martin's (309;, Mr. Austin's (311), Mr. Turpie's (315),and Mr.
                                Hunter's (317) were referred to theCommittee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            Mr. Collier's (310), Mr. Kempf's (312) were referred to Messrs.
                                Collier, Turpie, Murray, Stanfield, Devol, Ritter and Sherman.
                            Mr. Clements' (313) was referred to Messrs. Clements, Nebeker, of
                                Warren, and Comstock.
                        
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER
                    
                        Vol. II.
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 28, 1859.
                        No. 16.
                    
                    
                        
                            Mr. Carr's (314) was referred to Messrs. Carr, Bowman, Miller, Black
                                and Shockley.
                            The bills from the Senate, Nos. 116, 27, 28, 36, were considered and
                                referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            The bill S. No. 19 was referred to the  Committee on County
                                    and Township Business.
                            The bill S. No. 23 was referred to Messrs McLain, Snyder and
                                Power.
                            The bill S. No. 32, to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.
                            The bill S. No. 39, to the Committee on Fees and
                                    Salaries.
                            The bills from the Senate Nos. 40, 174, were passed to the third
                                reading.
                            The bills from the Senate numbered 207, 150, 240, 192, 50, 51, 69,
                                246,178,25, were passed the first reading.
                            Mr. HARTLEY, by leave, submitted the following, which was
                                adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Roads be instructed to inquire into the
                                            expediency of so amending the Road law that where there
                                            is a judgment obtained against an individual for failing
                                            to work the roads, as provided by law, no property he
                                            may be possessed of at the rendition of the same shall
                                            be exempt from levy and sale by an execution on said
                                            judgment, and report immediately, or as soon as
                                            practicable, by bill or otherwise
                                    
                                
                            
                            He also submitted the following, which was adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on the Affairs of the State Prison be
                                            instructed to report back to this House the memorial of
                                            John P. Dunn and Jeremiah Skene, which was referred to
                                            said committee at the extra session, and also their
                                            action thereon.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            NEW BILLS - UNDER DISPENSATION.
                             By Mr. GREGORY: (324) to declare the stream of Laughery Creek a
                                navigable stream to the town of Hartford, in Ohio county.
                            By Mr. KNOWLTON: (325) to fix the time of holding the Common Pleas in
                                Cass county:
                            By Mr. WATERMAN: (326) to regulate the mode of supplying county
                                officers with blank books and stationery, and prescribing penalty
                                for receiving fees as agent or attorney in certain cases.
                            By Mr. CARR: (327) to amend section 7, of the act to incorporate the
                                Ohio and Indianapolis Railroad Company approved June 20, 1846, so as
                                to increase the number of the directors thereof.
                            By Mr. MARTIN: (328) to amend the 143d section of the assessment act
                                of June 21, 1852.
                            By Mr. MAJOR (329) requiring engineers to stop their locomotives and
                                trains running upon any railroad at each passenger station, there to
                                remain without motion while persons are getting on and off the
                                cars.
                            By Mr. KNOWLTON, (330) to accept the proposition of Congress in
                                relation to agricultural college lands, and a suitable site for
                                college buildings, and making an appropriation therefor.
                            By Mr. BRANHAM, (331) to amend the act to amend the second section of
                                the act concerning the organization of voluntary associations and
                                repealing former laws, approved February 12,1855, so as to authorize
                                the formation of ferry companins, approved February 16, 1857.
                            Which bills were passed the first reading.
                            The Senate's amendment to the title of Mr. Brotherton's bill (131)
                                "to secure dues from private corporations," adding "and to extend
                                these immunities to all citizens who may organize on the same
                                terms," was concurred in by consent.
                            The House, at 8:45 o'clock, adjourned.
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE
                        Wednesday Night - in continuation.
                         Mr. SLACK had no objection to Mr. Line's amendment, but objected to Mr.
                            Carnahan's.
                        Mr. CARNAHAN moved to lay Mr. Line's amendment to his amendment on the
                            table.
                        The motion was rejected - yeas 14, nays 25.
                        The amendment to the amendment was adopted.
                        Senators Murray, Slack and Steele favored, and Senators Johnston,
                            Carnahan and March opposed.
                        Mr. COBB moved to indefinitely postpone the report and pending
                            amendments.
                        Mr. HEFFREN said he should vote for the postponement, believing that we
                            would not get a vote on the subject to-night nor to-morrow, and knowing
                            that more important legislation was suffering for action.
                        The motion was rejected - yeas 18, nays 21, as follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson, Bennett,
                                        Blair, Brown, Cobb, Cooper, Gooding, Heffren, Hendry,
                                        Johnston, Jones, Lomax, McClure, O'Brien, Robinson, Thompson
                                        and Wilson - 18.
                                    NAYS - Messrs. Bobbs, Carnahan,
                                        Conner,Cravens, Culver, Hamilton, Hargrove, Hill, Kinley,
                                        Line, March, Miller, Murray, Odell, Rice, Slack, Steele,
                                        Stevens, Studabaker, Turner and Wagner - 21.
                                
                            
                        
                         Mr. BLAIR makes the following explanation of his vote:
                        Mr. President: I acknowledge the force of the arguments of those who live
                            on the line of the canal for some legislation for their relief, and I
                            would be unwilling from any mere imaginary fear to withhold my vote for
                            any measure that would give them actual and substantial relief. Neither
                            do I believe that any Senators, who are  asking the passage of this bill, would be
                            willing to compromise the interests of the State, or willingly do any
                            act that would compel us to assume the payment of any portion of the
                            debt, which was liquidated by the arrangements made with the bond
                            holders. But I must be allowed to say, that in my opinion they are
                            unnecessarily alarmed By the act of 1846, the State of Indiana conveyed
                            by deed to the Trustees, the Wabash and Erie Canal, "and alt the
                            property, right, title and interest of the State in and to the same,
                            with all its appurtenances," &c., "to have, hold, possess and enjoy
                            the same as fully and absolutely as the State can, or could do."
                        We can not conceive of language more positive, and, to my mind, it placed
                            the canal, its tolls and revenues completely in the power and control of
                            the Trustees, subject only to the right of the State to compel the
                            faithful execution of the trust, and after twenty years to redeem the
                            certificates. Serious charges have been made by the bond holders, that
                            we have by legislation impaired the obligations of the compact then
                            made, and although I will not for a moment admit the charges to be true,
                            yet I am unwilling by any further legislation - unasked for by them,
                            open up this subject, and give them even an additional argument, whereby
                            they may obtain admission to the Halls of legislation. This bill will be
                            received by them as an acknowledgment, clothed with the sanctity of law,
                            that the revenues of the canal are totally insufficient to fulfill the
                            purposes of the trust. l am, therefore, compelled to vote for its
                            postponement.
                        Mr. HENDRY makes the following explanation of his vote:
                        Mr. President: My reasons for voting against this bill are simply these:
                            We have arranged a portion of the State debt with the transfer of this
                            canal to the Trustees, the rights of the bond holders, the State and the
                            Trustees, in whose hands the canal is placed, are closely defined by the
                            act constituting the State debt arrangement. It is by no means clear to
                            me, but what this very act is intended to disconnect the bond holders
                            with the contract. If A, in failing circumstances, agree with B, his
                            creditor, that he will place in the hands of a trustee certain property,
                            the rents of which the trustee shall faithfully apply to the discharge
                            of the indebtedness A, finding the trust property does not pay largely,
                            proposes to the trustee that in case B will give his consent A will
                            divert the rents and profits arising from the trust property to purposes
                            that in the opinion of A will be more advantageous to the trust. B can
                            have no interest in looking to the trust property longer when it does
                            not pay. I am unwilling the State shall take the position that she
                            desires the trust in its original form to cease, and thereby e ther
                            leave the bond holders without any prospect of getting pay at all, or
                            compel them to resuscitate the old debt against the State. When the bond
                            holders demand a change of the trust property they will ask us, and that
                            will be in time to act.
                        Mr. Carnahan's amendment - striking out the 5th section - was then
                            rejected by yeas 18, nays 18, as follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    YEAS - Messrs. Beeson, Brown, Carnahan,
                                        Cooper,Gooding, Hargrove. Heffren, Hendry, Johnston, Jones,
                                        Kinley, Lomax, McClure, March, Robinson, Thompson, Turner
                                        and Wilson-18.
                                     NAYS - Messrs. Blair, Cobb, Conner,
                                        Cravens, Culver, Hamilton, Hill, Line, Miller, Murray,
                                        O'Brien, Odell, Rice, Slack, Steele Stevens, Studabaker and
                                        Wagner - 18.
                                
                            
                        
                         Mr. MARCH moved to concur in the report of the committee, with the
                            following amendment to the sixth section:
                        
                            "The release and all other provisions of this act
                                a made upon the express condition that they are accepted by the
                                bond-holders and others interested or connected, with out enlarging
                                or extending the liabilities of the State."
                        
                         The amendment was adopted by consent.
                        Mr. LINE moved to amend the first section by adding after the word
                            "reserved" the words:
                        Provided, Nothing in this act shall be so construed as
                            preventing the State of Indiana, by her Legislature, from fully and to
                            its full entent enforcing the contract, as made with the bond-holders by
                            the acts of 1856-7, and the supplementary act of 1857-8."
                        Mr HEFFREN moved to amend by striking out and inserting a substitute for
                            section 1, renouncing the reserved right of the State to redeem, and
                            agreeing never to exercise it, and recognizing the right of the
                            bond-holders to rent, or lease, or sell said canal and all lands,
                            &c., belonging thereto.
                        Mr. STEELE said he would never surrender the right to bond holders to do
                            as they please with the canal, and if this amendment is adopted he would
                            vote against the bill. He urged the passage of the original bill, in an
                            earnest and argumentative speech of nearly half an hour.
                        Mr. GOODING moved to lay the motion to amend on the table.
                        A division of the question being demanded - 
                        The motion to strike out was not laid on the table - yeas 4, nays 32.That
                            portion of the amendment which proposes to insert was laid on the table
                            - yeas 33, nays 4.
                        The motion to strike out was not agreed to.
                        Mr. LOMAX moved to strike out all after the date "1857" in section 6.
                        On motion by Mr. CONNER the amendment was laid on the table, and the bill
                            was ordered to the third reading to-morrow.
                        And then the Senate, at 10:23 o'clock, adjourned.
                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             THURSDAY, February 24, 1859. 
                        
                         On motion, by Mr. GREEN, the reading of the journal was dispensed
                            with.
                        Mr. CARNAHAN, from the Finance Committee, returned his
                            bill 53, with an amendment, recommending its passage.
                        Mr. CARNAHAN opposed the amendment, and hoped the Senate would not concur
                            in the report.
                        The bill and report were laid on the table.
                        Mr. SLACK, from the Judiciary Committee, returned the
                            bill (H. R. 142), authorizing the payment, by County Commissioners, of
                            damages sustained by ministerial officers in enforcing the Maine Law,
                            recommending its passage.
                        Mr. HEFFREN gave notice that be should vote against it from beginning to
                            the ending.
                        The report was not concurred in.
                        Mr. ANTHONY offered a substitute for the bill, and spoke in explanation
                            thereof as follows :
                        
                        Mr. President: - The amendment which I have just offered, to the bill as
                            reported from the committee, makes provision for an indemnity to those
                            who have innocently become victims to the liquor law of 1855, declared
                            by the Supreme Court to be unconstitutional. But the bill as reported,
                            leaves it discretionary with the "Board of County Commissioners" to
                            allow and direct the payment of any losses out of the County Treasury.
                            The amendment proposes to make the payment out of the State Treasury,
                            when the matter has been adjudicated upon, and determined by the
                            judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction. The amendment is
                            introduced because I believe it to be grossly unjust to impose upon the
                            counties the payment of losses caused by the negligent act ot the State
                            in passing, through the instrumentality of the Legislature, an
                            unconstitutional act; the resulting losses were caused by the State, and
                            the State ought to pay them.
                        Again, it is right and just that those who suffered while executing the
                            process of the court, issued under a law supposed to be constitutional,
                            should be paid. The reported bill leaves it discretionary with the
                            County Commissioners to pay them out of the County Treasury. Now, it is
                            hardly possible that the people of any county would submit to having
                            this discretion exercised by the County Board, or that the Board would
                            exercise it, if they did. Hence I am clearly satisfied the original bill
                            would contribute nothing at all in affording the relief designed.
                        Mr. BENNETT was opposed to the resolution, but should vote for the bill
                            as reported from the committee.
                        Mr. HEFFREN was opposed to the report of the committee.
                        Mr. McLEAN hoped the bill would pass.
                        The substitute was rejected yeas 19, nays 25, as follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Blair, Brown,
                                        Cravens, Craven, Culver, Green, Hargrove, Heffren, Hendry,
                                        Hill, McClure, Odell, Rice, Shoemaker, Steele, Thompson,
                                        Turner and Wagner - 19.
                                    NAYS - Messrs. Beeson, Bennett, Bobbs,
                                        Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Conner, Gooding, Hamilton, Jennings,
                                        Johnston, Kinley, Line, Lomax, McLean, March, Miller,
                                        Murray, O'Brien, Robinson, Slack, Stevens, Studabaker,
                                        Williams and Wilson - 25.
                                
                            
                        
                         Mr. MARCH should vote with the understanding that the bill is intended
                            to affect only certain localities.
                        Mr. McLEAN moved that the bill be read the third time now.
                        The motion was rejected, by yeas 21, nays 23.
                        The bill passed to a third reading.
                        Mr. GOODING presented a petition requesting permission to occupy the
                            Senate Chamber during the ensuing recess of the Legislature, by the
                            Cumber and Presbyterian Church on the Sabbath days; which was referred
                            to Senators Murray, Gooding and Bobbs.
                        Mr. WILLIAMS, from the Committee on Roads, to which
                            was referred a petition from Franklin township, Johnson county, praying
                            the passage of a law authorizing roads to be run on township lines;
                            recommending that it lie on the table. The report was concurred in.
                        Mr. JONES, from the Committee on Claims, to which was
                            referred the petition of Messrs. Sage, Alexander and Suit, asking an
                            allowance of $200 each, as pay for their services in visiting New York
                            City to examine the books of agent of State, in obedience to a
                            resolution of the Senate at the session two years ago; reported that the
                            $100 each already received, is amply sufficient.
                        Mr BEESON, from the Agricultural Committee, returned Mr. Cravens' bill
                            238, recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to he engrossed.
                        Mr. WILLIAMS, from the same committee returned the bill H. R. 104 with
                            amendments, recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to be
                            engrossed.
                        Mr. BLAIR, from the Committee on County and Township Business, returned
                            Mr. March's bill 208, recommending passage. The report was not concurred
                            in, and the bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                        Mr. HAMILTON offered a joint resolution (14) asking our Representatives
                            in Congress to use their influence to procure copies of works of
                            interest for the Indiana Historical Society.
                        The resolution was passed by yeas 39, nays 0.
                        On motion by Mr. BENNETT, the Divorce bill (H. R. 93) was taken up, and
                            the Senate insisted upon its amendment.
                        On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, bills were taken up on their third reading.
                        Mr. Conner's (55), to make uniformity in all legal publications, was
                            passed by yeas 43, nays 0.
                        Mr. Hill's (57) was recommitted to the Committee on
                                Agriculture.
                        Mr. Wagner's (59) was laid on the table.
                        Mr. Wallace's (46) to amend section 4 of the act establishing the office
                            of Attorney General, was passed by yeas 37, nays 0.
                        Mr. Jones' (64) to render public officers competent to testify as
                            witnesses in cases brought by them on relation to the State, was passed
                            by yeas 35, nays 2.
                        Mr. Turner's (67) requiring Superintendents of State Asylums to report
                            the number of patients who are offspring of parents married within the
                            degrees of consanguinity, was passed by yeas 41, nays 0.
                        Mr. McLean's (68) to amend section 9 of the act, providing for the
                            election of Judges of Circuit Courts, approved June 7, 1852, was passed
                            by yeas 44, nays 0.
                        Mr. Heffren's (70) was recommitted, with instructions to strike out
                            section 5.
                        Mr. O'Brien's (73) to provide for the collection of taxes against lands
                            and lots mortgaged and secured to the public and trust funds, and to
                            repeal section 8, chapter 6 of the Revised Statutes of 1852; was passed
                            by yeas 43 nays 2.
                        Mr. Tarkington's (62) providing for the sale of ands belonging to the
                            Indiana University, was passed by yeas 38, nays 7.
                        On motion by Mr. RICE, Mr. Wagner's bill (187) creating six additional
                            branches of the Bank of the State of Indiana; was passed by yeas 29,
                            nays 19 - as follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson, Bennett,
                                        Blair, Brown, Conner. Cooper, Cravens, Craven, Culver,
                                        Green, Hamilton, Heffren, Hill, Johnston, Jones, McLcan,
                                        Miller, Murray, Odell, Rice, Shoemaker, Steele, Stevens,
                                        Studabaker, Tarkington, Thompson, Turner and Wagner -
                                        29.
                                    
                                    NAYS - Messrs. Bobbs, Carnahan, Cobb,
                                        Conley, Gooding, Hargrove, Hendry, Jennings, Kinley, Line
                                        Lomax, McClure, March, O'Brien, Robinson, Slack, Williams
                                        and Wilson - 19.
                                
                            
                        
                        Mr. SHOEMAKER makes the following explanation of his vote:
                        Sir: Availing myself of the permission of the Senate to give some of the
                            reasons for the vote which I shall give upon this question, I will say
                            that while I would, under no consideration, have voted for the creation
                            of a bank of issue, yet I am satisfied, after mature and careful
                            consideration, that the bill in question ought to pass, and that I
                            should lose sight of the true interest o the people of the State it I
                            should cast my vote against the measure.
                        The Bank of the State was created by act of the General Assembly of 1855.
                            Subsequently the validity of the charter was tested in the judicial
                            tribunals of the State, and by both the Inferior and Superior Courts the
                            act of incorporation has been pronounced valid. At the present Session
                            an attempt was made to repeal the charter - I voting for the repeal, but
                            the proposition failed, and the bans has now, by both legislative and
                            judicial recognition become an established institution, to continue in
                            existence for the next nineteen years. It would, therefore, be useless:
                            to make, for the present, any additional war upon it, and in that view I
                            take it to be the duty of good legislators to procure such practicable
                            advantages and guards from the bank as may better protect the interests
                            of the people.
                        The bill in question contains two propositions:
                        1. An increase of branches.
                        2. The right of municipal taxation.
                        It will be observed that it gives no authority for an increase of
                            capital, or an increase of issues, but simply provides that the capital
                            already authorized and judicially recognized shall be better distributed
                            throughout the State.
                        Unlike the free banks, the security of the holders of the notes of the
                            Bank of the State is in the mutual responsibility of the several
                            branches. If one branch becomes unable to meet its liabilities, then
                            each and all are bound for every deficit. Each additional branch gives
                            to the note holders an additional indorsement or renewed security. The
                            extension of the branches is our only safety against fraud and against
                            insolvency. It is said by the friends of the bank that the people will
                            derive advantage by an increase of places for a secure money deposit,
                            and where money can be obtained by discounts; but of this I will say
                            nothing, because upon this branch of the bill the reason of my vote is
                            that the branches might be extended to other reliable business
                            localities, so as to extend the security of the note holder.
                        The act of incorporation exempted the bank from municipal taxation, and
                            that exemption has been pronounced by the courts to be constitutional. I
                            believe the exemption to be an out rage upon, and violation of the
                            rights of the people, but it h now too late to contend against that
                            provision. I he exemption is res adjudicata. Our only
                            remedy is by an amendment, and it is that which I voted for.
                        The Branch at New Albany has a capital of $200,000, and the municipal
                            taxes are about one and a half per centum per annum, making the bank tax
                            for that city, under the bill in question, about $3,000 per annum, or
                            $57,000 for the nineteen years; and the taxes for the other cities and
                            towns where the branches are located are in a similar proportion. The
                            whole bank municipal taxation under the bill can not be much less than
                            $25,000 per annum, or nearly one-half million of dollars for the term of
                            the charter, in addition to the ordinary assessments for grading and
                            paving. And when the question is put, as it has been put by the present
                            measure, as a legislator I can not, on account of my personal hostility
                            to banks, overlook the palpable interests of the people of the several
                            cities and towns of the State, but am constrained by reason of these
                            considerations to vote for the bill.
                        Mr. STUDABAKER made the following explanation of his vote:
                        Mr. President - I desire to say in relation to this bill that I shall
                            vote for it, believing it will be as amended, for the best interests of
                            the State. It will have the effect to compel the bank to pay tax on her
                            capital and real estate as individuals pay on their capital and real
                            estate. As the law now stands they pay no corporation tax, and some of
                            the branches so construe the law as to require the individual
                            stock-holders to pay the tax; and many of them being non-residents pay
                            no tax at all. The amendment will compel the bank to pay the tax, and
                            will largely increase the taxable property of the State. And inasmuch as
                            the bill does not increase the capital stock, but permits the removal of
                            a part of the capital of the bank as now constituted, to a more
                            favorable location, in my opinion, the advantages to the people from a
                            fair taxation, will more than compensate for any additional advantages
                            given. I vote for the bill.
                        Mr. ODELL makes the following explanation of his vote: Mr. President, I
                            vote for this bill for the reason that, if accepted by the Bank
                            Directors, the charter will be so amended that the stock of the bank
                            will be taxable for all purposes the same as other property. The
                            establishment of the additional branches will in no wise increase its
                            capital, but merely permit a change of capital to other localities.
                        Mr. Johnston's (75) to amend sections 9 and 20 of an act, regulating fees
                            of officers, approved March 2, 1855, failed by yeas 15, nays 30.
                        On motion by Mr. SLACK, the Wabash and Erie Canal bill (212), described
                            on page 179 of these Reports, was taken up.
                        On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the 5th section was struck out by consent.
                        Mr. MILLER demanded the previous question.
                        There being a second, under its operation the bill was passed by yeas 26,
                            nays 20, as follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    YEAS - Messrs. Bobbs, Carnahan, Conley,
                                        Conner, Cravens, Culver, Green, Hamilton, Hargrove, Heffren,
                                        Hill, Line, McLean, March, Miller, Murray, Odell, Rice,
                                        Slack, Steele, Stevens, Studabaker, Tarkington, Turner,
                                        Wagner and Williams - 26.
                                    NAYS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson, Bennett,
                                        Blair, Brown, Cobb, Craven, Fisk, Gooding, Bendry, Jennings.
                                        Johnston, Jones. Kinley, Lomax, McClure, O'Brien, Robinson,
                                        Thompson and Wilson - 20.
                                
                            
                        
                        Mr. CRAVENS makes the following explanation of his vote: I vote for this
                            bill in its present-shape, for the reason that I regard the bill now  as powerless for harm, and as the
                            representatives of those counties immediately interested in the
                            preservation of the canal are satisfied that it will benefit them
                            without involving the State or trespassing upon the treasury. The bill
                            now only empowers the Trustees to lease out the canal, in whole or in
                            part, upon the express condition that the stockholders in said canal
                            give their consent that it may he so used.
                        Mr. CULVER makes the following explanation of his vote: This, to the
                            people that I represent, is a very important bill. Every grain producer
                            in the valley would be affected materially by any legislation that would
                            assist to sustain the canal. It is, and if properly maintained will ever
                            be, the cheapest thoroughfare to transmit our grain to the great markets
                            of the country. I have two objects in view in giving the vote that I
                            will upon this question. The first is to avoid any legislation that will
                            make liable the State for any amount of the debt that the bondholders
                            canceled in favor of the State when they agreed to take the work and
                            complete it. If the bond holders made a bad bargain, and find that the
                            consideration they voluntarily agreed to take has not proved a
                            profitable investment, it is a misfortune to them, in which the State of
                            Indiana is not responsible. I will favor no legislation, directly or
                            indirectly, that will obligate the tax payers of this State to pay
                            anything to the owners of the canal. They have received what the Butler
                            bill gave them in a contract of their own creating. Let them reap the
                            rewards or punishments of their own voluntary acts. The other object I
                            have in view is to favor legislation that, 'in the event the bondholders
                            abandon the canal -which I can hardly believe they will-that it can be
                            leased out to parties that will sustain it - allowing the same power
                            that regulates the tariff or tolls that now exist with State and
                            bondholders to remain unimpaired. This will guard any extortionate rate
                            of tolls or retsts from being made by any company or corporation that
                            might lease the canal or any part of it. This is one of the features of
                            this bill now under consideration. This bill merely proposes to the
                            bondholders to lease out the canal, or giving them the power so to do,
                            without, changing any other relation of importance. With this
                            explanation, I vote for the bill.
                        Mr. LINE makes the following explanation of his vote:
                        Mr. President: I feel bound, as a Senator, to cast my vote on any and all
                            occasions for any measure that will afford relief to any portion of the
                            citizens of the State, if I can do so without compromising my
                            convictions of right, or without violating my avowals on the subject.
                            Every Senator on this floor will bear me witness with what freedom and
                            frankness I have stated that I would in no way cast a single vote that
                            in its remotest result would involve the State in any liabilities to the
                            canal. I have given the bill as scrutinizing examination as I was
                            capable of doing, and I conclude that by no possible implication or
                            construction, however arbitrary or forced, that any liability can
                            possibly accrue to the State, and in this opinion l am backed by that of
                            the Attorney General on that subject, whose opinion is published at
                            length in to-day's Sentinel. The proposition is a plain, simple one, and
                            it proposes to give the Trustees of the canal, by and with the consent
                            of the bond-holders power to lease the canal to any person or persons,or
                            corporation, that will keep the same in repair or in navigable order,
                            and a forfeiture works to the person or persons, or corporation, if they
                            fail to keep up the same If the bond-holders do not assent to the
                            propositon, the law is wholly inoperative, and the Senators from the
                            counties through which the canal runs say that under the rights given to
                            the Trustees under this law, that the canal can be kept, up; and hoping
                            their anticipations may be fully realized under the law, I shall vote
                            for the bill. I vote aye.
                        Mr. TARKINGTON makes the following explanation of his vote:
                        I cannot at any time consent to give a vote that will in any way make the
                            State liable for the debt of the canal. It is not, however, believed
                            that this bill does create any liability in any manner whatever on the part of the State, but
                            will be of immense value to a large portion of the taxpayers in the
                            Valley of the Wabash, and on the line of the canal; and without such an
                            act as this, the canal must be abandoned to the great injury of many
                            citizens of this State. All the provisions of the bill are made upon the
                            express condition that they are asserted to by the bond holders and
                            other persons interested in the trust, without changing the liability of
                            the State to them in any respect whatever.
                        Mr. JOHNSTON, from the Committee on Claims, returned the memorial or D.
                            O. Daily, claiming per diem and mileage for contesting
                            the seat of Leroy Woods, the Senator from Clark, at the last regular
                            session; reporting that he is not entitled to the claim
                        On motion of Mr. STEVENS, all that relates to the trip to Greencastle was
                            striken out.
                        Mr. SLACK strenuously objected to the report, for Mr. Daily was a very
                            respectable constituent of his.
                        Mr. WAGNER introduced a bill (249), for the formation of new counties,
                            and providing for the organization thereof, and on his motion the rules
                            were suspended, the bill read the second lime and referred to a select
                            committee of three.
                        Mr. STEELE introduced a bill (250), authorizing married women over 18 and
                            under 21 years of age to unite with her husband in conveying and
                            mortgaging real estate, where the wife has neither father nor mother
                            residing in the State; which was read, under a suspension of the rules,
                            the second time, and referred to the Judiciary
                                Committee.
                        Mr. GOODING, from the Temperence Committee, returned
                            his bill 95, Mr. Heffren's 96, Mr. Tarkington's 97, and Mr. Robinson's
                            98, recommending that they lie on the table. The report was concurred
                            in.
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION
                             On motion by Mr. WAGNER, his bill (85), to provide for a general
                                system of common schools, and to establish county libraries, was
                                taken from the table.
                            
                            On motion by Mr. KINLEY, the subject was postponed till to-morrow at
                                10 o'clock.
                            Mr. HEFFREN, by leave, returned from the select committee thereon his
                                bill (70), supplemental to a county prison act, approved May 27,
                                1852, and to provide for the erection of workhouses, recommending
                                passage.
                            The bill failed to pass by yeas 23, nays 17.
                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, his bill (166), was made the special
                                order for to-morrow, 2 o'clock.
                            On motion by Mr. COBB, Senate bills on third reading were then
                                considered.
                            [Mr, SLACK, by leave, introduced a bill (251), supplemental to an act
                                fixing the time of holding courts in the 1st Judicial Circuit, which
                                was, under a suspension of the rules, read the second and third
                                times, and passed by yeas 29, nays 7.]
                            Mr. Odell's bill (2), providing for the election of United States
                                Senators, was passed by yeas 39, nays 5.
                            Mr. Green's (61), to separate the law books from the State Library
                                and forming therefrom a State Law Library, as passed by yeas 43,
                                nays 1.Mr. March's (68), repealing the act creating the office of
                                Attorney General, failed to pass yeas 24, nays 19 - as follows :
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Bobbs, Brown, Conner, Cooper, Cravens,
                                            Craven, Culver, Green, Jones, Kinley, Line, March,
                                            Murray, Rice, Robinson. Steele, Stevens, Thompson,
                                            Turner and Wilson - 24.
                                        NAYS - Messrs Carnahan, Cobb, Conley,
                                            Fisk, Hamilton, Hargrove, Heffren, Hendry, Jennings,
                                            Johnston, Lomax, McClure, Miller, O'Brien, Odell, Slack,
                                            Studabaker, Tarkington and Williams - 19.
                                    
                                
                            
                             On motion by Mr. CRAVEN, his bill (45) to provide compensation to
                                owners of animals killed or injured by the cars, locomotives or
                                carriages of any railroad company in this State, was taken from the
                                table and passed by yeas 33, nays 7.
                            Mr. Turner's (58) to amend section 16 of an act for the government of
                                the Hospital for the Insane, approved January 15, 1852, was passed,
                                by yeas 36, nays 4.
                            Mr. Beeson's (78) to amend section 16 of an act concerning real
                                property and the alienation thereof, approved May 6, 1852, failed to
                                pass yeas 19, nays 21.
                            Mr. Lomax's (79) to extend the time of payment to purchasers of
                                saline and school land, was passed, by yeas 39, nays 2.
                            Mr. Hargrove's (82) fixing the compensation of executors and
                                administrators, was passed, by yeas 30, nays 11.
                            Mr. Anthony's (82) to amend section 196 of a law reform act, approved
                                June 18, 1852, was passed, by yeas 41, nays 0.
                            Mr. McClure's (77) to amend section 18 of an net concerning real
                                property and the alienation thereof, was passed, by yeas 40, nays
                                1.
                            The Committee on Agriculture's (94) changing the
                                time of the annual meeting of the State Board of Agriculture, and
                                allowing to district societies a delegate, was passed, by yeas 37,
                                nays 0.
                            Mr. Conley's bill (99) was committed to Senators Conley, Wagner and
                                Heffren.
                            Mr. Rice's (108) was recommitted to Senators March, Rice, Craven,
                                Jones and Wilson.
                            Mr. Cooper's (110) to prohibit Clerks and their deputies from
                                practicing law in the Courts in which they are Clerks and deputies,
                                failed to pass - yeas 22, nays 16 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Bennett, Blair, Bobbs,
                                            Brown, Cobb, Conner, Cooper, Cravens, Craven, Green,
                                            Heffren, Hendry, Johnston, Kinley, Line, Lomax, March,
                                            Murray, O'Brien, Steele, Studabaker and Thompson -
                                            22.
                                        NAYS - Messrs Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Carnahan, Hamilton, Hargrove, Jennings, McClure, Miller,
                                            Odell, Rice, Robinson, Shoemaker, Slack, Stevens,
                                            Williams and Wilson - 16.
                                    
                                
                            
                            The Committee on Education's (114) to authorizing
                                the State Board of Education to purchase and place in the county and
                                township libraries, bound copies or the Indiana School Journal,
                                failed to pass - yeas 23, nays 13.
                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        

                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        REPORTED BY ARIEL DRAPIER/
                        
                             THURSDAY, February 24, 1859. 
                        
                        The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Trustees of
                            the Wabash and Erie Canal, responding to a resolution of the House of
                            Representatives, submitted by Mr. Wheeler on the 22d inst., which was
                            referred to the Committee on Canals.
                        Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, from the Committee on Banks, returned Mr.
                            Prosser's bill (291), for taxing the Bank of the State of Indiana, with
                            various verbal amendments, and adding a proviso to the following
                            effect:
                        Provided, That in all cases where the holders or owners
                            of any stock of said bank, or any of its branches, are non-residents of
                            the State, said bank or branches shall pay the tax as aforesaid on said
                            stock on their stock hooks respectively, in the town or township where
                            said bank or branch may be situated.
                        The amendments were adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                        
                            THE CALENDAR
                             On the motion of Mr. STANFIELD, the House proceeded to the
                                consideration of bills on the third reading.
                            Mr. Power's bill (199), to create the 14th Judicial Circuit, and to
                                fix the time of holding courts therein, was passed the final reading
                                in the House of Representatives - yeas 70, nays 4.
                            Mr. Smith, of Perry's bill (188), supplemental to the General Banking
                                Act of March 3, 1855, providing for additional security, and for the
                                delivery, surrender, exchange, or sale of stocks or bonds deposited
                                under said act - was passed the final reading in the House of
                                Representatives - yeas 78, nays 2.
                            The Committee on Public Expenditure's bill (204),
                                prescribing the duty of township assessors; to make lists of the
                                deaf, dumb and blind in their respective townships, and the duty of
                                County Auditors and the Auditor of State in relation thereto - was
                                passed the final reading - yeas 84, nays 0.
                            Mr. Prosser's bill (203) to amend section 103 of the assessment act
                                of June 21, 1852, [changing the time of settlement from the first
                                Monday of August to the 15th day of October,] was passed the final
                                reading - yeas 79, nays 1.
                            Mr. Sherman's bill (206) to amend the 36th section of the misdemeanor
                                act [to punish the procurement of abortion with a heavier fine, not
                                exceeding five hundred dollars, and imprisonment, not exceeding one year,] was
                                passed the final reading - yeas 77, nays 0.
                            Mr. Stanfield's bill (208) to provide for the case of the removal
                                from office by death, resignation, or inability to serve, of both
                                the Governor and Lieutenant Governor - declaring that the Secretary
                                of State shall act as Governor - was passed the final reading - yeas
                                78, nays 2.
                            Mr. Mellett's bill (209) to amend the 38th section of the act
                                defining felonies, &c., [with reference to professional gamblers
                                - making the said section consistent with section 74 - taking away
                                the felonious character of keeping a billiard table-] failed for
                                want of a constitutional majority - yeas 46, nays 42.
                            Mr. Harney's bill (227) to amend the act of May 20, 1852, authorizing
                                the locating, laying out and vacating of lanes, alleys, streets, and
                                squares, making out and recording plats of towns, providing for
                                change of name of towns, &c., [making the act applicable to
                                towns not incorporated,] was passed the final reading - yeas 79,
                                nays 0.
                            Mr. Waterman's bill (228) to provide for the collection of the
                                surplus revenue fund belonging to the counties of Dekalb, Lake and
                                Wells, on loan to the State Treasury, and for the payment of said
                                fund over to the treasuries of said counties - was passed the final
                                reading - yeas 83, nays 0.
                            Mr. Waterman's bill (212) prescribing part of the duties of County
                                Auditors and Treasurers, and Township Trustees and Supervisors of
                                Roads, in relation to road tax, and providing penalties for any
                                failure on the part of said officers to discharge any of their
                                duties as prescribed in this act[to save the expense of collecting
                                road tax receipts,] failed for lack of a constitutional majority -
                                yeas 45, nays 36
                        
                        
                            ASSESSMENTS.
                            Mr. Hartley's bill (213) to amend the 33d section of the Assessment
                                Act of June 21,1852, [so that persons subject to taxation may deduct
                                their indebtedness from solvent claims, moneys on hand and personal
                                property, instead of as now from solvent claims,] coming up - 
                            Mr. STANFIELD proposed to recommit to a select committee with
                                instructions to amend so as to make banks pay the taxes on their
                                stock.
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren. There will be a bill to meet that case.
                            Mr. STANFIELD would reach non-resident stockholders.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone. The instructions could not be incorporated
                                without a repeal of the 15th section of the charter of the Bank of
                                the State. The provisions of the bill referred to were more salutary
                                than the gentleman's instructions.
                            Mr. STANFIELD withdrew the proposition.
                            Mr. HARNEY proposed to recommit, with instructions to add:
                            Provided, That when a County Treasurer shall fail
                                to make a settlement at the proper time, he shall forfeit two per
                                cent, on the amount due to the State Treasury.
                            The motion and instructions were agreed to.
                            Mr. PROSSER proposed to add to the instructions:
                            Amend by striking out from the bill all that relates to deducting
                                indebtedness out of moneys on hand or at interest, or out of
                                personal property. [Leaving the law as it now is in this
                                respect.]
                            Mr. MARTIN proposed:
                            Strike out all that relates to deducting indebtness from money on
                                hand, personal property and money loaned.
                            Mr. HUN1ER supported Mr. Prosser's instructions. Without such a
                                provision, the bill would reduce the amount of taxables in the State
                                to the amount of $150 000,000.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Wayne, and Mr. RITTER could not appreciate the
                                wisdom of double taxing.
                            Mr. MURRAY. Under such a provision the agriculturists would have to
                                pay the revenue.
                            Mr. PROSSER supported the instructions and replied to objections.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, opposed the instructions, giving
                                examples.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS, when in order, desired to instruct the committee to the
                                following effect:
                            Inquire whether the railroads of the State, and other corporations,
                                that are indebted in an amount equal to the value of such railroads
                                or the assets of such corporations, would not be exempt from
                                taxation under the operation of the bill.
                            Instruct the committee to add an additional specification requiring
                                each tax-payer to state under oath what amount of profits he has
                                realized during the preceding year, from property for which he may
                                be taxed.
                            Mr. BOYD had prepared instructions, allowing us to take our
                                indebtedness which we owe within the State, from our solvent claims,
                                and which he would offer at the proper time.
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, Mr. Martin's amendment was laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. HARTLEY made an ineffectual motion to lay the instructions on the
                                table.
                            Mr. BOYD now submitted his instructions.
                            On motion by Mr. PROSSER, they were laid on the table.
                            On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, the vote on Mr Harney's motion
                                for reference, was reconsidered, and then, on further motion, the
                                bill and proposed amendments were laid on the table without a
                                division.
                        
                        
                            THE CANADA THISTLE.
                             Mr. Wildman's bill (224), to prevent the spread of the Canada
                                thistle, prescribing penalty for permitting the same to mature on
                                the public highways, and for selling the seed then of mingled with
                                other seeds,- was passed the final reading - yeas 59, nays 15.
                            Mr. STANFIELD, (for Mr. Branham), moved to reconsider this vote.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK hoped it would not be reconsidered.
                            Mr. BRANHAM. It would work a hardship on the Supervisors.
                            Mr. SCOTT. It was bad policy to accumulate criminal offences.
                            Mr. ROW. A similar law was well thought of in Ohio.
                            Mr. KNOWLTON. This thistle almost destroyed the farming land. On his
                                motion, the motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
                            Mr. Durham's bill (214), to amend the 441st section of the practice
                                act of June 18, 1852, so as not to compel sheriffs to levy on real
                                and personal estate as designated by the judgment debtor, [when the
                                amount is less than $100,] - was passed the final reading - yeas 60,
                                nays 17.
                            
                            Mr. CLEMENTS moved to reconsider this vote. The bill would oppress
                                the poor. All the land and personal property of the poor man, was
                                subject to be taken without the right of designation, &c.
                            Mr. MELLETT supported the provisions of the bill, and gave
                                examples.
                            The vote was reconsidered - yeas 56, nays 28: and then
                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the bill was laid on the table without a
                                division.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. RYNEARSON, asked, but was refused leave, to report from the
                                    Committe on Agriculture, bills in relation to
                                the acceptance of public lands for a State Agricultural College; and
                                the Speaker pursued - 


                            
                                THE CALENDAR.
                                Mr. Stanfield's bill (272), defining the statutory meaning of the
                                    word "fence," [it includes hedges and ditches,] was passed the
                                    third and last reading in the House of Repesentatives - yeas 71,
                                    nays 1.
                                Mr. Clements' bill (268), prescribing the times of Common Pleas
                                    in the counties of Gibson, Posey, Vanderburg, Warrick, Knox,
                                    Daviess, Pike and Martin, coming up - 
                                On motion by Mr. BLYTHE, (by unanimous consent,) it was amended,
                                    verbally, by transposing "Pike" and "Daviess," and so the bill
                                    passed the final reading in the House of Representatives - yeas
                                    83, nays 0.
                                Mr Clements' bill (267), prescribing the time, and the length of
                                    term, of holding the Circuit Court in the third Judicial
                                    Circuit, coming up - 
                                Mr. BLYTHE, (by unanimous consent), proposed, and the House
                                    adopted, an amendment similar to that above taken, and so this
                                    bill was passed the final reading - yeas 84, nays 0.
                                Mr. Brotherton's bill (266), to provide for the transfer from the
                                    Court of Common Pleas certain business, wherein the Common Pleas
                                    have no jurisdiction, was passed the final reading - yeas 84,
                                    nays 0.
                                Mr. Snyder's bill (257), to provide for the formation of new
                                    counties; the representation thereof, and the administration of
                                    justice therein, coming up - 
                                On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, it was ordered to be
                                    committed to the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                    with instructions
                                To amend, so that no new county shall be formed without the
                                    consent of a majority of the voters of the county or counties,
                                    out of which said new county is proposed to be formed.
                                Mr. Davis' bill (262), to repeal the act to prevent railroad
                                    companies from changing their depots, except on conditions,
                                    &c., approved March 4,1853, was passed the final reading -
                                    yeas 90, nays 1.
                                Mr. Speaker Gordon's bill (276) to amend section five of the act
                                    to organize a Supreme Court, and prescribing certain duties of
                                    the judges thereof, approved May 13, 1852, was passed the final
                                    reading - yeas 83, nays 5.
                                Mr. Baird's bill (158) to provide for the management and
                                    disposition of estates of persons who have mysteriously
                                    disappeared and deserted their families, without having made
                                    provision for the settlement of their estates or the support of
                                    their families, was passed the final reading-yeas 60, nays
                                    22.
                                Mr. Turpie's bill (177) to amend section two of the act to
                                    authorize the relocation of county seats, coming up - 
                                Mr. STANFIELD. It requires making proof of the number of
                                    inhabitants asking for removal by affidavit.
                                On motion by Mr. STANLEY, it was recommitted with instructions,
                                    viz:
                                Amend by striking out all after the word "county," in the second
                                    line, and insert: ''Shall be ascertained only by reports
                                    verified by affidavits of the Trustee of each township, who
                                    shall make out a correct list of the legal voters of their
                                    several townships, to which shall be attached the affidavits of
                                    said Trustees, showing the correctness of such list.
                                Mr. Davis' bill (255), to abolish the complete record of cases in
                                    the Supreme Court, was rejected on the final reading - yeas 37,
                                    nays 50.
                                Mr. Colgrove's bill (256), to amend the 71st section of the
                                    justice's act of June 9,1852, was passed the final reading -
                                    yeas 66, nays 13 [The execution defendant may replevy his $300
                                    worth of exemptions upon affidavit.]
                                Mr. Nelson's bill (253), to provide for the transfer of real
                                    estate for taxes on the books ot the County Auditor, and
                                    preserving the chain of title in the Recorder's office, was
                                    passed the final reading - yeas 81, nays 4.
                                On the "motion of Mr. Speaker GORDON, (Mr. Davis in the Chair,)
                                    the vote above rejecting Mr. Davis' bill (255), was
                                    reconsidered, and the same being again submitted to vote, it was
                                    passed the final reading in the House of Representatives - yeas
                                    68, nays 17.
                                Mr. Stanfield's bill (217), in relation to the levy of execution
                                    or attachment on partnership property, for the individual debt
                                    of one of the partners, was parsed the final reading - yeas 78,
                                    nays 5.
                                Mr. Hamilton, of Boone's, bill (233) to amend the third section
                                    of the act providing for the election, and prescribing certain
                                    duties of county surveyors, approved June 17, 1852, was passed
                                    the final reading - yeas 54, nays 26. [It requires service of
                                    notice, 10 days, and notice by publication 30 days.]
                                Mr. Hamilton, of Boone's, bill (229) to amend the 76th section of
                                    the misdemeanor act of June 14, 1852, (corrects the law against
                                    stealing pumpkins, melons and standing corn, inserting the
                                    words, "the property of another person,") failed for want of a
                                    constitutional majority - yeas 49, nays 33.
                                Mr. Harrison's bill (155) to authorize appeals from the Circuit
                                    to the Supreme Court in contested election cases, was passed the
                                    final reading - yeas 71, nays 13.
                                Mr. Snyder'sbill (221) to fix the time of holding the Circuit
                                    Court in the 12th Judicial Circuit, regulating the terms
                                    thereof, and repealing all acts conflicting therewith, was
                                    passed the final reading - yeas 87, nays 0.
                                Mr. Knowlton's bill (225), to amend the 94th section of the
                                    assessment act of June 21 1852, [leaves it in the discretion of
                                    the County Courts to say whether the County Treasurer shall
                                    visit the election precincts for the collection of taxes,] was
                                    passed the final reading - yeas 66, nays 20.
                                
                                Mr. Davis' bill (258), to repeal the 5th section of the act of
                                    February 23, 1853, to authorize railroad companies to
                                    consolidate their stock with companies in this and adjoining
                                    States, &c., [to permit railroad companies terminating their
                                    roads on the Ohio river, to change the location of their
                                    depots,] was passed the final reading - yeas 88, nays 1.
                                Mr. Early's bill (300), providing that certain notices of sale,
                                    and other legal notices therein named, shall be published in a
                                    newspaper at the county seat, in all cases where there is a
                                    newspaper published at the county seat - was passed the final
                                    reading - yeas 81, nays 3.
                                On motion by Mr. DAVIS, the bill (S. 112) to amend the city
                                    corporation law, of March 9, 1857, and to provide for a penalty
                                    on the collection of taxes remaining deliquent in such cities on
                                    the third Monday in March, 1857, with the engrossed House
                                    amendments thereto, was taken up.
                                Mr. EDWARDS asked unanimous consent to amend, by striking out
                                    that section of the amendments which requires railroad companies
                                    to light and guard the street crossings of their tracks, and it
                                    was so ordered.
                                Mr. Speaker GORDON (Mr. Blythe in the Chair) said, that, under
                                    the present law the percentage for delinquent taxes could not be
                                    collected till the time of sale, in January. This bill makes it
                                    collectable on the first Monday in March previous.
                                Mr. EDWARDS. Does the bill affect cities incorporated under
                                    special charters?
                                Mr. Speaker GORDON. Only those organized under the general
                                    law.
                                The bill, as amended, passed the final reading in the House of
                                    Representatives - yeas 68, nays 6.
                                The House then, at 5:15 o'clock, adjourned.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             FRIDAY, February 25, 1859. 
                        
                         On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, the reading of the journal was dispensed
                            with.
                        
                            THE TREASURY BILL.
                             On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, the bill (H. R. 195) to provide for a
                                Treasury system for the State of Indiana, was read through, and
                                under a dispensation read by title the second time.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to refer the bill to the Committee on
                                    Finance.
                            The motion was rejected - yeas 21, nays 23.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN moved to strike out so much as authorizes the taking of
                                paper money.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to amend the amendment by striking all that part of
                                the bill which allows the notes of any bank to be received for
                                taxes.
                            Mr. WAGNER wanted neither an exclusive gold and silver currency for
                                taxes, nor a shin-plaster currency. He would be satisfied with gold
                                and silver and the issues of legal banks.
                            Mr. ANTHONY said the proposition was impracticable.
                            Mr. CARNAHAN accepted the amendment to the amendment.
                            Mr. CRAVENS [Mr. Rice in the chair] thought it radically wrong for
                                the Legislature to furnish the people with a currency and then
                                refuse to take it in payment for taxes.
                            Mr. MARCH was in favor of a sub-treasury system and of having the
                                taxes paid in specie, after a time: but if he could not get that, he
                                was in favor of striking out all in the bill which refers to this
                                subject.
                            Mr. COBB was also in favor of a sub-treasury system, and of having
                                the taxes paid in gold and silver.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON said, to apply the sub-treasury system in a community
                                like ours is but to oppress it with additional taxation.
                            Mr. HENDRY opposed the provision which requires taxes to be paid in
                                the specie paying banks of the State.
                            Mr. SLACK was in favor of a sub-treasury system: and hoped the
                                amendment would be adopted.
                            Mr. ANTHONY opposed the specie system of a sub-treasury, was in favor
                                of the bill as reported from the House, and addressed the Senate in
                                support of his position.
                            Mr. BOBBS was opposed to the specie paying system.
                            Mr. BENNETT moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 27, nays 19 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Bobbb, Brown, Conner, Cooper, Cravens,
                                            Craven, Culver, Green, Hamilton, Johnston, Jones, Lomax,
                                            McLean, Murray, Odell, Rice, Robinson, Steele, Stevens,
                                            Tarkington, Thompson, Turner and Wagner - 27.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Conley,
                                            Fisk, Gooding, Hargrove, Heffren, Hendry, Jennings,
                                            Kinley, Line, McClure, March, Miller, O'Brien,
                                            Shoemaker, Slack, Studabaker and Wilson - 19.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. JONES explains his vote as follows: 
                            Mr. President - I shall vote against the amendment proposed by the
                                gentleman from Posey, notwithstanding I regard it as right. I would
                                prefer a specie sub-treasury system, and would most cheerfully
                                support it had I a hope that it could pass, but the action of this
                                and the other branch of this Legislature has convinced me that an
                                effort to secure the passage of a specie sub-treasury here would be
                                wasting time for no good purpose. Regarding the present treasury
                                system as highly objectionable and insecure, I shall vote for the
                                bill as it comes from the House - yielding my own preferences, and
                                taking what I regard as the next best proposition.
                            Mr. MILLER explains his vote as follows:
                            I am opposed to the provisions of sec. 3 of this bill, and I must,
                                therefore vote for the pending amendments, so, if possible, to get
                                the bill in a shape that I can vote for it.
                            Section 3 discriminates in favor of the banks of Indiana for the
                                payment of taxes. I have no objections to the taking of good Indiana
                                bank paper in payment for revenues, but I can not see why if the
                                revenue is to be paid in paper currency the notes of solvent specie
                                paying banks of other States can not as well be taken in payment for
                                taxes. In my part of the State a great deal of eastern as well as
                                Kentucky money is in circulation, which is just as good as Indiana,
                                and I do not wish to have a person pay a premium in order to get
                                money with which to pay his tax.
                            
                            [A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of
                                the bill (H. R. 131) to secure dues from corporations.]
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to amend so as to require the State Treasurer to
                                send home for redemption the notes of all the banks which he is
                                permitted to receive, immediately after receiving the State revenue
                                from the county Treasurers.
                            Senators Anthony and Miller opposed.
                            Mr. BEESON moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to, by yeas 25, nays 21 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony. Beeson,
                                            Bennett. Blair, Bobbs, Brown. Conner, Cravens, Craven,
                                            Culver, Green, Hamilton, Hendry, Johnston, Jones,
                                            McLean, Murray, Rice, Steele, Stevens, Studabaker,
                                            Tarkington, Thompson, Turner and Wagner - 25.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Conley,
                                            Fisk, Gooding, Hargrove, Heffren, Jennings, Kinley,
                                            Line, Lomax, McClure, March, Miller, O'Brien, Odell,
                                            Robinson, Shoemaker, Slack, Williams and Wilson -
                                            21.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. JONES moved to read the bill the third time now, and upon that
                                motion demanded the previous question.
                            The demand was not seconded - yeas 20, nays 25.
                            Mr. SLACK moved to amend so as to require all payments for taxes
                                after the 1st of September, 1860, to be paid in specie.
                            Mr. BOBBS moved to amend the amendment by striking out so much of the
                                bill as relates to the kind of currency the Treasurer is to
                                receive.
                            The amendment to the amendment was laid on the table by yeas 25, nays
                                21.
                            The amendment was also laid on the table by yeas 26, nays 20, as
                                follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Bobbs, Brown, Conner, Cravens, Craven,
                                            Culver, Green, Hamilton, Johnston, Jones, Lomax, McLean,
                                            Murray, Odell, Rice, Robinson, Steele, Stevens,
                                            Tarkington, Thompson, Turner and Wagner - 26. 
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Conley,
                                            Fisk, Gooding, Hargrove, Heffren, Hendry, Jennings,
                                            Kinley, Line, McClure, March, Miller, O'Brien,
                                            Shoemaker, Slack, Studabaker, Williams and Wilson -
                                            20.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. COBB moved as a substitute for the bill, Mr. Shoemaker's bill
                                No. 90.
                            Mr. GREEN moved to lay the substitute on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to by yeas 28, nays 18.The question then
                                recurred on Mr. Jones' motion to read the bill the third time.
                            Mr. CRAVENS demanded the previous question.
                            The demand was seconded by yeas 27, nays 18
                            The bill was then read the third time - yeas 27 nays 19 and passed by
                                yeas 28, nays 18 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Anthony. Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Brown, Conner, Cooper, Cravens, Craven,
                                            Culver. Goading, Green, Hamilton, Johnston, Jones,
                                            Kinley, Line, McLean, Murray, Odell, Rice, Robinson,
                                            Steele, Stevens, Studabaker, Turner, Wagner and Williams
                                            - 28.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Bobbs, Carnahan, Cobb,
                                            Conley, Fisk, Hargrove, Heffren, Hendry, Jennings,
                                            Lomax, McClure, March, Miller, O'Brien, Slack,
                                            Tarkington, Thompson and Wilson - 18.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. CONLEY explains his vote as follows:
                            Mr. President - Sir: Not having had an opportunity of making any
                                remarks on the bill under consideration - from the fact that the gag
                                has been applied to Senators by the friends of the bill, thereby
                                precluding myself, as well as other Senators who desired to be
                                heard, from giving reasons in opposition to the bill, I therefore
                                claim the right to be heard in defence of the vote I am called upon
                                to give. Sir, I am as much in favor of curtailing the expenses of
                                the State government as any Senator on this floor. But sir, I can
                                never give my consent, so long aa I hold a seat in this body as a
                                Senator, to the passage of any law which has for its object the
                                putting of power into the hands of the monied sharks of the Stale of
                                Indiana. The bill provides that the taxes may be collected in the
                                notes of the banks of this State. I have repeatedly stated on this
                                floor, and it has not been denied, that there is no security
                                whatever to the bill holder under the provisions of the charter for
                                the Bank of the State of Indiana, except the individual liability of
                                the stockholders. I can not therefore give my consent to the passage
                                of this, or any other bill similar in its provisions. I can not give
                                my consent to the passage of any law which collects the taxes in the
                                notes of that or any other bank where there is no security to the
                                bill holder. This bill provides that the Treasurer of State shall
                                receive said notes for taxes, and that he shall not have power to
                                exchange it, notwithstanding fears may be entertained of the failure
                                of such bank. I can never give my consent to the passage of any law
                                requiring the Treasurer of State to keep revenues in the vaults of
                                the State, unless the revenues are collected in gold and silver.
                            Mr. GOODING makes the following explanation of his vote: He should
                                vote for the bill because under its provisions the paper of the bank
                                of the State of Indiana could not be received - that institution
                                never having been regularly organized; and as he regarded the bill
                                the best that could be passed under the circumstances.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. CONNER, by leave, introduced a bill (252), to provide for the
                                maintenance of plank roads, where they have been sold by the
                                judgment of any court; which, under a dispensation, was read by
                                title the second time, and referred to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.
                            Mr. BOBBS introduced bill (253), to amend section 3 of an act to
                                prevent the distruction, or the injury of animals, or the
                                distruction of human life by railroads, approved May 11, 1852; which
                                was read by title the second time and referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee
                            Mr. SHOEMAKER introduced a bill (254>, supplemental to an act to
                                provide for a more uniform mode of doing township business, approved
                                February 18, 1859; which was read the first, second, and third
                                times, and passed by yeas 40, nays 3.
                            Mr. SLACK presented a petition from 200 citizens of Huntington county
                                on the subject of the Wabash and Erie Canal; which was referred to
                                the  Committee on Canals and Internal
                                    Improvements, without reading.
                            On motion by Mr. WILSON, Mr. Tarkington 's bill (166) the special
                                order for this hour, was laid on the table.
                            Mr. Hill's 61, was laid on the table. 
                            
                            The following bills were read the third time:
                            Mr. March's (117) to amend secs. 238 and 241 of a law reform act,
                                approved June 18, 1852, and to provide for the examination and
                                taking the deposition of parties as witnesses in civil actions and
                                proceedings, was passed by yeas 26, nays 16.
                            Mr. Wallace's (119) to amend section 5 of an act concerning the
                                partition of land, was passed by yeas 41, nays 0. 
                            Mr. Bennett's 120, failed - yeas 20, nays 24.
                            Mr. Line's 121 was recommitted.
                            Mr. Wier's (122) supplement to the State Prison act, approved March
                                3, 1855, was passed by yeas 38, nays 4.
                            [Mr. SLACK, by leave, introduced a bill (255), to provide for the
                                application of any surplus that may remain in the hands of the
                                Auditor of State after the redemption of the circulation of any
                                bank, or banking association where such bank or banking association
                                has received on deposit money belonging to the State, and has failed
                                to pay the same; was referred to Senators Heffren, Slack, Conner,
                                Steele and Cobb.]
                            Mr. Blair's (127), to amend sections 18, 25, and 26, of an act
                                regulating the apportionment of real estate, approved May 14, 1852,
                                was passed by yeas 40, nays 4.
                            Mr. LINE, from a select committee thereon , returned his bill (121),
                                to protect exhibitors of articles or animals at agricultural fairs,
                                and to punish offenders against certain rules of agricultural
                                societies, recommending passage with an amendment
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill passed by yeas 36, nays
                                2.
                            Mr, WAGNER, from a select committee, thereon, returned Mr. Conley's
                                (99) to provide for the protection of wild game, with amendment,
                                recommending passage.
                            The report was concurred in and the bill failed under the operation
                                of the previous question - yeas 18, nays 27.
                            Mr. SLACK, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill 255,
                                recommending passage.
                            The report was concurred in and the bill passed by yeas 34, nays
                                10.
                             Mr. Green's 128 failed - yeas 8, nays 36.
                            Mr. Bennett's (129) declaring the having carnal knowledge of insane
                                women a felony: was passed by yeas 43, nays 1.
                            Mr. Cooper's 130, was laid on table.
                            Mr. Green's (132) for the protection of the Sabbath, and repealing an
                                act of the same title approved February 28, 1855; was passed by yeas
                                33, nays 9.
                            Mr. Craven's (136) for the recovery of damages from any officer of
                                the State who shall illegally charge, demand or collect more than is
                                legally due him as fees: was passed by yeas 43, nays 0.
                            Mr. Gooding's (138), fixing the salary of State Librarian, and
                                dispensing with the assistant and a clerk, was passed by yeas 37,
                                nays 3.
                            Mr. Cobb's (139), for the protection of side walks in unincorporated
                                towns or villages, and prescribing punishment of persons injuring or
                                obstructing the same, failed to pass by yeas 24, nays 13.
                            Mr. KINLEY, by leave, introduced a bill (256), donating $500 out of
                                the State Treasury for the benefit of the State Scientific
                                Association.
                            The Senate took a recess till 7 o'clock.
                        
                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.
                            The following Senate bills were read the second time and
                                appropriately referred:
                            Mr. March's 241, Mr. Murray's 247, ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. Green's 243 and 244, referred to Senators Green, March,
                                Studabaker, Cobb and Anthony.
                            Mr. Heffren's 245, referred to Senators Heffren, Kinley, Tarkington,
                                Hendry and Wilson.
                            Mr Bobbs' 108, to the Judicary Committee.
                            The following House bills were severally passed the first
                                reading.
                            Nos. 108, 152, 178, 270,221, 122.225,156, 258, 183, 300, 149,
                                165,186, 276, 58, 72, 91, 268, and 207.
                            The bill H. R. 58, was passed the second time.
                            The bill (H. R. 258) fixing the time of holding the Courts of Common
                                Pleas in the counties herein named, was read the second and third
                                time and passed by yeas 33, nays 0.
                            On motion by Mr. STEELE, Mr. Carnahan's bill (226), supplemental to
                                an act for the incorporation of high schools, approved May 13,1852,
                                was taken up and passed by yeas 39, nays 0.
                            The following bills were read the third time.
                            The Committee on Temperance's 143, laid on the
                                table.
                            Mr. Conner's (146), providing for the publication of laws, [described
                                on page 138 of these reports ]
                            Mr. JOHNSTON moved to recommit with instructions to strike out all
                                that part which requires publication in county newspapers.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to lay the motion on the table.
                            This motion was agreed to by yeas 24, nays 14 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Blair, Bobbs, Conley, Conner, Craven, Culver, Green,
                                            Heffren, Hendry, Jennings, Jones. Kinley, March, Odell,
                                            Slack, Steele, Stevens, Tarkington, Thompson, Turner,
                                            Wagner and Wilson - 24.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Bennett, Carnahan,
                                            Cobb, Gooding, Hargrove, Johnston, Lomax, McClure,
                                            O'Brien, Robinson, Shoemaker, Studabaker and Williams -
                                            13.
                                    
                                
                            
                             The bill was then passed by yeas 29, nays 9 as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        AYES. - Messrs. Anthony, Beeson,
                                            Bennett, Blair, Bobbs, Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Conner,
                                            Cravens, Craven, Culver, Green, Heffren, Hendry,
                                            Jennings, Jones, Kinley, McClure, March, O'Brien, Odell,
                                            Slack, Steele, Stevens, Tarkington, Thompson, Turner and
                                            Wagner - 29.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Gooding, Hargrove,
                                            Johnston, Lomax, Miller, Shoemaker, Studabaker, Williams
                                            and Wilson - 9.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. McClure's 141 was laid on the table.
                            Mr. Cobb's (151) to authorize appeals from the Circuit to the Supreme
                                Court in contested election cases, was passed by yeas 36, nays
                                0.
                            Mr. Thompson's (153) to fix the time of holding Courts of Common
                                Pleas in Steuben and DeKalb counties; was passed by yeas 38, nays
                                0.
                            Mr. McClure's 152, was laid on the table.
                            Mr. Jenning's (154) requiring parties in civil suits to advance fees
                                to sheriffs in cases therein specified; failed to pass - yeas 14,
                                nays 23.
                            
                            [Mr. WAGNER, from the select committee thereon, returned the bill, H.
                                R. 5, recommending its passage. The bill was ordered to the third
                                reading.]
                            Mr. Bennett's (150) declaring the selling or conveying of land
                                without title a felony; was passed by yeas 37, nays 2.
                            [Mr. BOBB3, from the select committee thereon, returned the memorial
                                of Wm. Sheets, praying for relief as a lessee of water power from
                                the State, recommending the passage of a bill (257) for the relief
                                of lessees from the State ot water power on the northern division of
                                the Central Canal, authorizing suits, &c. The report was
                                concurred in ]
                            [Mr. TURNER introduced a bill (258), to amend section 4 of the game
                                law, approved February 15, 1857, which was read the first time.]
                            Mr. O'Brien's (163), granting to Wm. English, of Rossville, Dearborn
                                county, the State's' interest in lot No. 33 in said town, it, having
                                escheated to the State by the death of his uncle - no heirs
                                appearing at the time of his uncle's decease, was passed by yeas 34,
                                nays 0.
                            Mr. Tarkington's (162) to amend section 84 of an act to repeal all
                                general laws for the incorporation of cities, &c., failed - yeas
                                9, nays, 24.
                            The Senate adjourned at 9:10 o'clock.
                        
                    
                    
                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                             FRIDAY, February 25, 1859. 
                        
                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            By Mr. KNOWLTON: memorial of the city of Logansport, for legislation
                                in regard to the power of such city to change, alter, amend or
                                terminate such city government, which was referred to Messrs.
                                Knowlton, BIythe and Davis.
                            By Mr. SNYDER: of E. M. Chord, and others, of Jasper county, for a
                                certain State road, in Jasper county, south of Renssellaer, &c.,
                                which was referred to the Committee on Roads.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY, from the Committee on Fees and
                                    Salaries, returned Mr. Devol's amended bill (211)
                                relative to the fees of Clerks and Treasurers, recommending passage,
                                and that the instructions referred lie on the table.
                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. COMSTOCK, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                reported (upon petitions referred,) in favor of the passage of an
                                act, authorizing commutation money for working the roads, &c.,
                                and in connection therewith - 
                            Mr. HARTLEY had leave to introduce a bill (No. 332) to amend the 10th
                                section of the act to provide for the election of Supervisors of
                                highways, and prescribing the duties of county and township officers
                                in relation thereto, which was passed the first reading. [It
                                authorizes commutation for working the roads; when judgement is
                                obtained for neglecting to work, no exemption or appraisement laws
                                shall prevent collection, &c.]
                            Mr. NEBEKER, of Warren, submitted the following, which was
                                adopted.
                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS, It is believed that large
                                            sums of money are, and have been due the State Treasury
                                            for different lengths of time, from different persons,
                                            who have heretofore held State and County offices, and
                                            from banks and individuals as drawers and indorsee of
                                            bills of exchange or otherwise; which seems are in
                                            danger of being lost by the statute of limitation or
                                            otherwise. Therefore, be it
                                        Resolved, By the Senate and and House of
                                                Representatives of the State of Indiana, That
                                            the Auditor of State be instructed to ascertain without
                                            delay, and as near as possible the exact amount legally
                                            due the State Treasury from every person who has
                                            heretofore been an officer, agent or trustee, of any
                                            funds rightfully belonging to State, from every source,
                                            and in like manner the amount that may be due the state
                                            from any bank corporation or company, or from any
                                            individual for money had or received, or as drawer or
                                            indorser of any note, debt or bill of exchange in favor
                                            of the State that has been protested for non-payment,
                                            and to make an immediate demand from such ex-officer,
                                            agents, trustees, or companies for the amounts
                                            respectively found due from each; and in case of failure
                                            or refusal to pay the same, to make out a certified copy
                                            of the amount due from such ex-officers, agents
                                            trustees, person or persons, banks or corporations, or
                                            companies, so failing or refusing to pay, and to place
                                            the same in the hands of the Attorney General, who is
                                            hereby instructed to bring suit for the recovery of the
                                            same without delay.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. STANLEY, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Mr. Turpie's bill (177), to amend
                                the second section of the act for the relocation of county seats,
                                with amendments in obedience to the instructions proposed by him,
                                and adopted by the House yesterday, and, so amended, they
                                recommended the passage thereof.
                            The amendment wart adopted.
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY moved to refer to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                            Mr. STANFIELD. If the object of reference is to prevent this act from
                                being taken as a repeal of the act of the last session, for the
                                relocation ot the county seat of Perry, that might be obviated by an
                                additional section.
                            He submitted a section for this purpose: to prevent the repeal by
                                construction of the said act, which was adopted; and the amendments
                                were ordered to be engrossed. 
                        
                        
                            AGRICULTURAL COLLEGES.
                             Mr. RYNEARSON, from the Committe on Agriculture,
                                returned sundry papers on the subject of accepting the Congressional
                                donation of public lands [20,000 acres to each Representative and
                                Senator in Congess, and 20,000 acres to each Representative to which
                                the State shall be entitled under the next census and apportionment
                                to each of the land States, and the same proportionate amount in
                                land scrip to the States in which there is no public land,] to be
                                applied to the erection of colleges for the encouragement of
                                agriculture and the mechanic arts - and reported two bills founded
                                thereon, entitled:
                            A bill (No. 333), accepting on the part of the State of Indiana,
                                certain public lands, donated to such States of the Union as shall
                                accept and provide for the erection of colleges for the support of
                                agriculture and the mechanic arts, and providing for notice of the
                                same to be given by the Governor of the State to the Secretary of
                                the Interior:
                            A bill (334), defining the duties of the Auditor and Treasurer of
                                State in the management and security of the trusts arising from the
                                donation of certain public lands for the erection of colleges for
                                the encouragement of Agriculture and the mechanic arts, and
                                providing for the election of a Board of Regents for the government
                                of  such institution , and
                                defining their powers and duties, &c.
                            Which were passed the first reading.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD, from the Committee on Education,
                                reported on the petition from Sullivan county, with reference to the
                                return of the $188,000 of the School Fund in the State's hands, and
                                the distribution of the Sinking Fund among the counties, with
                                information that the Committee on Ways and Means
                                were engaged on a bill for the return of said fund.
                            Mr. BLACK, from the select committee thereon, returned Mr. Knowlton's
                                bill (278), fixing court time in the 11th Judicial Circuit,
                                recommending indefinite postponement.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. SHERMAN, from the select, committee on Mr. Collier's bill (310),
                                to regulate the practice of Medicine and Surgery, returned the same
                                with verbal amendments, recommending passage.
                            The amended bill was ordered to be engrossed.
                             Mr. RITTER, from the same committee, returned Mr. Kempf's bill
                                (312), prohibiting unqualified persons from practicing the science
                                of Medicine and Surgery, and the Pharmaceutical Art, recommending
                                that it be laid on the table.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. DOBBINS, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill
                                (304), with an amendment by substitute.
                            The amendment was adopted, and the bill, as amended was ordered to be
                                engrossed.
                            Mr. CARR, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill (314),
                                to repeal the 73d section of the assessment act of 1852, with a
                                favorable recommendation.
                            It was ordered to engrossment.
                            Mr. CAVINS, from the select committee thereon, returned Mr. Hunter's
                                bill (125) for protection of railroad tracks, &c., with
                                amendments comformable to instructions reported yesterday. 
                            The amendments were adopted and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. STILES, from the Committee on Corporations,
                                returned Mr. Edward's bill (269), concerning enclosures, trespassing
                                animals, fence enclosing railroads, &c , with an amendment,
                                adding these words:
                            Provided, That whenever any fence shall be destroyed by fire
                                communicated by any locomotive, the same shall be rebuilt by the
                                railroad company owning such locomotive.
                            The amendment was adopted and the bill ordered to be engrossed.
                            On motion by Mr. STANFIELD, the bill was considered as engrossed and
                                put upon its final reading.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, objected to the farmer being compelled to
                                keep up half the fence. It was a scheme to avoid railroad
                                responsibility, &c.
                            Mr. PARKS concurred with Mr. H.
                             Mr. BRANHAM'S experience and knowledge in the case, was that more
                                stock was killed where the railroad was fenced. Assuredly railroad
                                men would not kill stock if they could help it. It was the jeopardy
                                of lives, and the loss in costs and damages on their part. There was
                                the best, guarantee in the world that engineers would not run over
                                stock if they can help it. This bill allowed the farmer to enclose
                                up to the track itself. It gave no immunity for killing stock. It
                                was directly for the advantage of the farmer adjoining the track.
                                Stock killed generally belongs, not to those adjoining the track,
                                but to trespassers beyond. Why not give the company the same right
                                accorded to individuals, &c.?
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone. We do treat railroads as individuals. We tell
                                them to keep a good and sufficient fence around their unruly engine.
                                The bill, makes the owner of the field or enclosure a partner in the
                                fence, and so relieves the road from the responsibility for killing
                                stock, because the fence is not kept up.
                            Mr. MANSFIELD considered the development of the resources of the
                                country by railroads, and the duty of the Legislature to assume the
                                effort or the company to avoid running over stock. He claimed that
                                the provision of the bill requiring the farmer to keep up one-half
                                the fence, was simply what is right between man and man, &c.
                            Mr. KEEFER. The bill would compel the farmer to join in keeping up a
                                fence for the track through his field, whether he desired to do so
                                or not.
                            Mr. BRANHAM. Such was not the intention.
                            Mr. MURRAY. By the present, law the railroad is compelled to
                                fence.
                            He could not vote for a bill that would compel the farmer to keep up
                                half the fence.
                            Mr. POWER. If the gentleman was right, he could not vote for such a
                                bill.
                            Mr. EDWARDS asked unanimous consent to enable him to amend the bill
                                as follows:
                            
                                "Provided, That where any
                                    railroad runs through an enclosure, the company owning it shall
                                    build the fence thereof through such enclosure, and maintain the
                                    same at its own proper expense."
                            
                            He said the sole object of the bill was to have the fence kept in
                                repair, for the security of life and property. That was the object
                                of the bill, without this proposed amendment.
                            Mr. HALL, of Rush, was willing to extend even handed justice to the
                                roads. The amendment, of the gentleman from Vigo obviated all the
                                difficulty in his mind.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, moved to recommit, with instructions to amend
                                as proposed by the gentleman from Vigo, which he subsequently
                                withdrew.
                            Mr. SULLIVAN moved to lay on the table; but withdrew the motion for
                                the final vote on the bill without the Amendment, which resulted
                                yeas 50, nays 42.
                            So the bill failed for lack of a constitutional majority: and then - 
                            On motion by Mr. EDWARDS, the bill was recommitted to Messrs.
                                Edwards, Branham, Parrett, Jeffries and Gregory, with the above
                                instructions submitted by him
                            Mr. DOUGHERTY, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill
                                (321) declaring it usury for banks to charge for exchange,
                                recommending passage.
                            It was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. CLEMENTS, from the select committee thereon, returned his bill
                                (313) fixing the salaries of the Trustees of the Wabash and Erie  Canal, without amendment,
                                recommending passage.
                            It was ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. MARTIN, from the select committee thereon, returned the bill (S.
                                102) redistricting the State for Common Pleas purposes, with an
                                amendment by substitute (21 districts, judge's salary $1,000 -
                                repealing sections 29 and 38 of the Common Pleas act.)
                            The amendment was ordered to be engrossed, and the bill passed to the
                                third reading.
                            On motion by Mr. MARTIN, the amendments were considered as
                                engrossed
                            Mr. SHULL proposed to recommit with instructions to strike out
                                "1,000" and insert "500."
                            Mr. DAVIS. It was impossible to make all the districts acceptable.
                                The bill would save $15,000 a year. Against his habit, he was almost
                                ready to move the previous question.
                            Mr. AUSTIN proposed to amend the instructions by striking out "$500"
                                and insert "$1,200-" He said: The argument against the present
                                Common Pleas system has been that the present, salary is
                                insufficient to secure men of competent ability to discharge the
                                duties. I submit then whether, when we increase the labors, to
                                double the present, and only increase the salary two hundred
                                dollars, will it not bring the system into disrepute. I desire that
                                the amendment be made, that I may be able to vote for the bill;
                                without it, I will be compelled to vote against it.
                            Mr. MURRAY demanded the previous question, and under its force, the
                                amendments to the instructions were rejected, the House refused to
                                recommit, and the bill, as amended, passed the House o
                                Representatives - yeas 69, nays 25 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS. - Messrs Blythe, Bowman, Boyd,
                                            Boxley, Brotherton, Carr, Cavins, Clark, Clements,
                                            Collier, Comstock, Cotton, Davidson, Davis, Dobbins,
                                            Dougherty, Durham, Devol, Early, Eastham, Fordyce,
                                            Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hall of Rush, Hamilton
                                            of Boone, Hamilton of Wayne, Harrison, Hunter, Jeffries,
                                            Johnston, Jordan, Keefer, Kelly, Kempf, McLain, Massey,
                                            Merrifield, Miller, Murray, Martin, Nelson, Parks,
                                            Parrett, Prosser, Ritter, Robinson, Row, Rynerson,
                                            Scott, Sherrmn, Shields, Smith of Miami, Smith of Perry,
                                            Stanfield, Stiles, Sullivan, Summers, Tebbs, Thompson of
                                            Elkhart, Treadway, Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler, Whetzel,
                                            Whiteman, Wildman, Wood and Mr. Speaker. - 69.
                                        NAYS. - Messrs Austin, Black, Clayton,
                                            Colgrove, Edwards, Gifford, Harney, Hartley, Jones,
                                            Knowlton, Lawhead, Lewis, Major, Mansfield, Mellett,
                                            Nebeker of Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Newton, Power,
                                            Shockley, Shull, Snyder, Stanley, Thompson of Madison
                                            and Turpie - 25.
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the bill passed with an amendment of title "repealing all acts
                                conflicting therewith."
                            Mr. EDWARDS, from the select committee thereon, returned the bill No.
                                269, amended in accordance with his instructions above. The bill, he
                                said, requires the person using the rail road fence to pay one-half
                                the expense of repairs of so much of the fence as he uses. But where
                                it runs through an enclosure the railroad pays all the expense of
                                construction and repairs.
                            The amendment was adopted and ordered to be engrossed.
                            Mr. GRIFFIN would not compel a man who had donated a hundred feet
                                strip of his grounds to keep up one-half of the fence also.
                            The bill was lost on its final reading, by yeas 42, nays 50, as
                                follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs Baird, Blythe, Bovd,
                                            Branham, Cavins, Clayton, Clements, Collier, Cotton,
                                            Davidson, Davis, Eastham, Edwards. Fordyce, Gifford,
                                            Gregory, Hall of Grant, Hamilton of Wayne, Harney,
                                            Harrison , Jeffries, Johnston, Kempf, Lawhead, McLain,
                                            Mansfield, Mellett, Miller, Martin, Nebeker of
                                            Vermillion, Nebeker of Warren, Nelson, Prosser, Ritter,
                                            Rynearson, Sherman, Smith of Miami, Stanfield, Stiles,
                                            Treadway, Whetzel and Mr. Speaker - 42.
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Austin, Black, Bowman,
                                            Boxley, Brotherton, Carr, Clark, Comstock, Dobbins,
                                            Dougherty, Durham, Early, Griffin, Hall of Rush,
                                            Hamilton of Boone, Hancock, Hartley, Hunter, Jones,
                                            Jordan, Keefer, Kelly, Lewis, Major, Massey, Merrifield,
                                            Murray, Newton, Parks, Power, robinson, Row, Scott,
                                            Shields, Shockley, Shull, Snyder, Stanley, Sullivan,
                                            Summers, Tebbs, Thompson of Elkhart, Thompson of
                                            Madison, Turpie, Usrey, Waterman, Wheeler, Whiteman.
                                            Wildman and Wood - 50.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. STANFIELD, by leave, submitted the following, which was
                                adopted:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved,  That a select committee of
                                            one from each of the districts named in the bill,
                                            reducing the number of the Common Pleas districts, be
                                            appointed for the purpose of preparing and presenting to
                                            this House a bill fixing the time of holding courts in
                                            said districts.
                                    
                                
                            
                            The SPEAKER announced the committee, viz.: Messrs. Stanfield, Blythe,
                                Eastham, Jones, Davis, Gregory, Austin, Collier. Hunter, Martin,
                                Baird, Mellett, Hamilton of Boone, Harney, Harrison, Turpie,
                                Merrifield, Colgrove, Wildman, McLain and Knowlton.
                            Mr. Hunter's bill (122) to authorize the holders of unauthorized
                                paper currency to sue for and recover if the issuers of such
                                unauthorized paper currency "for money had and received," making the
                                paper evidence of the act,of deb - so as not to make previous
                                holders parties liable - was considered in order and passed tho
                                House of Representatives on the third and last reading - yeas 78,
                                nays 5.
                            Mr. Power's bill (30) to repeal the Court of Conciliation act, was
                                laid on the table - Mr. Hamilton of Boone's bill for the same object
                                having been rejected.
                            Mr. Clement's bill (182) was also laid on the table, as superceded
                                matter.
                            Mr. Hunter's' bill (182) authorizing county Auditors to collect
                                moneys belonging to the common school fund, and providing punishment
                                for his failure of duty therein, coming up - 
                            Mr. CLEMENTS could not vote for a bill increasing the criminal code,
                                multiplying, inconsiderately, the number of offences for which a man
                                may be fined and imprisoned.
                            Mr. BOYD would vote for the bill if that part relating to imprisoning
                                the negligent auditor were not retained.
                            It was stricken out, by unanimous consent, and so the bill passed the
                                House of Representatives, yeas 81, nays 4.
                        


                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. SULLIVAN asked and obtained leave to submit the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper be
                                            instructed to remove immediately the palings placed
                                            around the lobbies of the House of Representatives.
                                    
                                
                            
                             Mr. CAVINS moved to lay the resolution on the table
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 37, nays 30.
                            Mr. SHIELD, by consent, submitted an order, which was adopted, to
                                send back to the Senate Mr. Mansfield's bill, N . 147.
                            
                            Pending this order - Mr. EDWARDS and Mr. CLEMENTS inquired if the
                                object of this bill as to favor certain subscribers to stock in the
                                Ohio and Mississippi Railroad, and who have not yet paid in?
                            Mr. SHIELDS denied.
                            
                                THE CALENDAR.
                                 The SPEAKER then pursued the calendar of bills on the third and
                                    last reading in the House of Representatives, and he asked and
                                    obtained leave of absence till to-morrow morning - calling Mr.
                                    Edward's to the Chair.
                                Mr. Stanfield's bill (176) to amend section 19 of the first
                                    chapter of the practice act, was passed the final reading - yeas
                                    56, nays 15.
                                Mr. Snyder's bill (165) to amend section 18 of the misdemeanor
                                    act of June 14, 1852, repealing disfranchisement for fraudulent
                                    indictment, was passed the final reading - yeas 81, nays 8.
                                Mr. Black's bill (149), to amend the 11th and 18th sections of
                                    the act concerning the partition of land, approved May 20, 1852,
                                    was passed the final reading - yeas 77, nays 2.
                                Mr. Mellett's bill (186), to amend section 103 of the criminal
                                    practice act of June 17 1852, to give the State the closing
                                    argument; in ie criminal cases, coming up - 
                                Mr. STILES resisted it.
                                Messrs. MELLETT and PROSSER supported it
                                Mr. DAVIS proposed to recommit to the Judiciary
                                        Committee, with instructions - 
                                To amend so as to give the Prosecuting Attorney himself the right
                                    to close the argument.
                                On motion by Mr. COLLIER, this motion and instructions were laid
                                    on the table.
                                The bill was then passed the final reading yeas 53, nays 37.
                                Mr. Edward's bill (174) to authorize the constitutional
                                    enumeration of the white male inhabitants of this State, over
                                    the age of 21 years for the year 1859, was rejected on the third
                                    reading yeas 35, nays 53.
                            
                            
                                SUPERVISOR'S ACT
                                 Mr. Massey's bill (77), to revise the Supervisor's act, coming
                                    up - 
                                Mr. MASSEY asked unanimous consent to amend the bill so as to
                                    make it conform to the one township trustee system; but Mr.
                                    Comstock and Mr. Prosser objected - asking if the only object
                                    was to make the bill conform to the one trustee system.
                                Mr. MASSEY. That is the only object.
                                Mr. COMSTOCK withdrew his objections.
                                Mr. HALL, of Rush, moved ineffectually, to refer with
                                    instructions.
                                Mr. RYNERSON moved to recommit with instructions to inquire into
                                    the expediency of amending as proposed by Mr. Massey.
                                Mr. CLEMENTS feared there was not time to refer again. He desired
                                    the passage of the bill.
                                Mr. BOYD proposed to amend the instructions to strike out all
                                    that relates to taxation to keep up the roads.
                                Mr. COMSTOCK. The bill proposes an imperative tax of five cents
                                    on the $100. This was a discrimination in favor of the poor.
                                Mr. BOYD. Still it was a double tax upon labor and upon
                                    property.
                                Mr. DOBBINS defended the imperative tax.
                                Mr. PROSSER withdrew his objections.
                                Mr. MURRAY. This bill had been matured with care, and he hoped
                                    that it would be allowed to pass, with conformity to the change
                                    to the trustee system.
                                Mr. HALL, of Rush, considered the powers of the supervisors for
                                    assessment should be limited to 10 or 12 cents on the $100, and
                                    that some limit should be fixed as to the number of days a man
                                    may be called out
                                Mr. PARKS wished to have the tax apportioned to the real estate
                                    of the districts.
                                On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the motion to recommit, &c., was
                                    laid on the table.
                                Mr. KNOWLTON demanded the previous question, and there was a
                                    second, but - 
                                On motion by Mr. CLEMENTS, it was reconsidered, and the amendment
                                    was withdrawn.
                                Mr. CLEMENTS now hoped the amendments of Mr. Massey would be
                                    adopted by unanimous consent. ["No consent."]
                                On motion by Mr. ROBINSON, the vote on engrossment was
                                    reconsidered.
                                Mr. ROBINSON moved to recommit the bill.
                                On motion by Mr. SHULL, that motion was laid on the table.
                                On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, of Boone, Mr. Massey's amendments were
                                    taken from the table, and adopted, and then - 
                                The bill was again considered as engrossed, (as now amended , and
                                    passed the final reading in the House of Representatives - yeas
                                    is 56, nays 34 - as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS - Messrs. Blythe, Carr,
                                                Clark, Claypool, Clayton, Clements, Comstock,
                                                Dobbins, Dougherty, Devol, Early, Eastham, Fordyce,
                                                Gregory, Griffin, Hall of Grant, Hamilton of Boone,
                                                Hamilton of Wayne, Hancock, Harney, Harrison,
                                                Hunter, Johnston, Jones, Keefer, Kempf, Knowlton,
                                                Lawhead, Lewis, Major, Mansfield, Massey,
                                                Merrifield, Miller, Murray, Nebeker of Vermillion,
                                                Nebeker of Warren, Nelson, Newton, Prosser, Ritter,
                                                Rynearson, Scott, Sherman, Shockley, Shull, Smith of
                                                Perry, Stanfield, Stiles, Sullivan, Summers,
                                                Thompson of Madison, Treadway, Wheeler, Whetzel and
                                                Wood. - 56.
                                            NAYS - Messrs Austin, Bowman,
                                                Boyd, Boxley, Brotherton, Cavins, Colgrove, Collier,
                                                Cotton, Davidson, Davis, Durham, Edwards, Gifford,
                                                Hall of Rush, Hartley, Jeffres, Jordan, Kelly,
                                                McLain, Martin, Parks, Robinson, Row, Shields, Smith
                                                of Miami, Snyder, Stanley, Tebbs, Thompson of
                                                Elkhart, Usrey, Waterman, Whiteman and Wildman -
                                                34.
                                        
                                    
                                

                            
                            
                                NIGHT SESSION.
                                
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                     Mr. Gregory's bill (324) was referred to Messrs. Gregory,
                                        Durham and Hartley.
                                    Mr. Knowlton's (325) was ordered to be engrossed.
                                    On motion bv Mr. BRANHAM, the bills Nos. S. 81, 78, 77, 58,
                                        41, 79, 103, 38, fi8. 62, 46, 55, 64, 67, 73, 187, 101, 134,
                                        45, 251, 255. 212, and 282, were passed the first
                                        reading.
                                    Mr. Black, by leave, presented the petition of Speer, Case
                                        & Co , asking compensation for arresting a fugitive from
                                        justice, which was referred to the Committee on
                                            Claims.
                                    Mr. Tebbs' bill (320), Mr. Edwards' (324), and Mr. Major's
                                        bill (329), were referred to the Committee on the
                                            Judiciary.
                                    
                                    Mr. Branham's (331), and Mr. Dougherty's (318), and Mr.
                                        Stanfield's (319), were ordered to be engrossed.
                                    Mr. Miller's bill (293) was referred to the
                                            Committee on Fees and Salaries
                                    Mr. Treadway's (322) was referred to Messrs. Rynearson, Smith
                                        of Perry, and Smith of Miami.
                                    Mr. Waterman's (326) was referred to the Committee
                                            on Public Expenditures.
                                    Mr. Carr's bill (327) was referred to Mesrs. Carr, Nebeker or
                                        Warren, Davis, Hanfield and Devol.
                                    Mr. Knowlton's (330), was referred to the Judiciary
                                            Committee.
                                    Mr. RITTER, by leave, from the Committee on
                                            Buildings, returned the committee's hill (297)
                                        for the erection of a building for State offices, with
                                        verbal amendments, which was adopted, and the bill was
                                        ordered to be engrossed.
                                    The bill (S. 2[9?]3), providing for Boards of Trustees and
                                        Commissioners of the Benevolent Institutions, was referred
                                        to the Committee on Benevolent Institutions.
                                    The bill (S. 207), in relation to the salaries of the Judges
                                        of the Supreme and Circuit Courts and Prosecuting Attorneys,
                                        was ordered to the third reading; also the bill S. No.
                                        240.
                                    The bill S. No. 51, was referred to the Committee on
                                            Rights and Privileges.
                                    The bill from the Senate, No. 50, was referred to the
                                            Committee on the Judiciary
                                    The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the
                                        Auditor of State, suggesting the sale of lots south of the
                                        canal, in the town of Indianapolis, by authority of law.
                                    Mr. SMITH, of Perry, by unanimous consent, introduced a bill
                                        (335), to authorize the sale of certain lots in the town of
                                        Indianapolis, which was passed the first reading, [It
                                        provides for the sale of the out lot south of the cross-cut
                                        canal, and the south-west corner of lot No. 50].
                                    The House then, at 9 o'clock, adjourned.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                             SATURDAY, February 26, 1859. 
                        
                         On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the reading of the journal was dispensed
                            with.
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr. Heffren's bill
                                106, recommending passage. Also, the petition of John Zount,
                                recommending that it lie on the table.
                            Mr. ANTHONY, from the same committee, returned Mr. Robinson's bill
                                239, recommending passage. Also, Mr. Tarkington's, 232, recommending
                                indefinite postponement.
                            Mr. CONNER, from the Committee on Corporations,
                                returned his bill 252, recommending passage.
                            Mr. BLAIR, from the same committee, returned his bill 14, Mr.
                                Carnahan's bill 9, and a memorial from Posey and Vanderburg counties
                                praying for a more uniform mode of doing township business,
                                recommending that they lie on the table.
                            Mr. LOMAX, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    privileges, returned his bill 190,recommending
                                passage.
                            Mr. GREEN, from a select committee thereon, returned bis bills 243
                                and 244, recommending passage.
                            These reports were severally concurred in.
                            Mr. SHOEMAKER, from the  Committee on Roads,
                                returned Mr. Turner's bill (221) empowering supervisors of highways
                                to keep in repair roads which have been changed by the construction
                                or running of railroads, recommending passage.
                            The bill, on motion, was read the third time and passed, by yeas 28,
                                nays 11.
                            Mr. BOBBS, from a select committee thereon, returnee. Mr. Odell's
                                bill 222, with amendments, recommending passage.
                            Mr. RICE, from a select committee thereon, returned Mr. Wagner's
                                bill, 249, recommending passage.
                            Which reports were concurred in.
                            Mr. MARCH, by leave, introduced a bill (259) to prohibit persons from
                                preventing, hindering or delaying specie payments by the banks of
                                thia State.
                        
                        
                            THE PUBLICATION OF LAWS.
                             Mr. JONES moved to reconsider the vote taken last night on the
                                passage of Mr. Conner's bill (166) providing for the publication of
                                laws, [described on page 138 of these reports.]
                            Mr. JOHNSTON was in favor of reconsidering the vote. He thought it
                                would be a great expense with no comparative benefit resulting
                                therefrom.
                            Mr. GREEN opposed reconsideration.
                            Mr. CONNER explained the provisions of his bill. He was willing to
                                publish the laws in more than one paper in each county, if the
                                Senate would consent; but if we cannot have that, let us have the
                                act passed by the Senate last night.
                            Mr. MILLER voted against the law last, might, but he has since become
                                satisfied it is right,and should vote against reconsideration.
                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to lay the motion on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to, by yeas 22, nays 18 - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS - Messrs. Beeson, Bermett, Blair,
                                            Carnahan, Conley. Conner, Craven, Culver, Fisk, Green,
                                            Heffren, Hendry, Kinley, McClure, McLean, Miller,
                                            Murray, Odell, Rice, Slack, Steele and Stevens - 22
                                        NAYS - Messrs. Anthony, Bobbs, Brown,
                                            Cobb, Gooding, Hamilton, Hargrove, Johnston, Jones,
                                            Line, Lomax, Robinson. Shoemaker, Thompson, Turner,
                                            Wagner, Williams and Wilson - 18.
                                    
                                
                            
                             The select committee thereon, returned the petition of the
                                Cumberland Presbyterian and Plymouth Congregational Church, praying
                                for the use of the Senate Chamber on Sundays, during the recess of
                                the Legislature; recommending the adoption of a resolution granting
                                the prayer of said petitioners.
                            The resolution was adopted, by yeas 29, nays 15.
                            A message from the Governor announced his approval and signature of
                                Mr. Slack's bill (255), to provide for the application of any
                                surplus that may remain in the hands of the Auditor of State after
                                the redemption of the circulation of any bank, or banking
                                association where such bank or banking association has received on
                                deposit money belonging to the State, and has failed to pay the
                                same.
                        
                    
                    
                
                
            
            

        

    
