

     ----CITATION----
        Brevier Legislative Reports, Volume VOLUME FIFTEEN. (1875). Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/law/brevier/VAA8558-15
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        


            
            
                Index to Rules and Standing Committees
                
                    For Rules of the Senate, see pages.............................. 37, 38,
                        39, 40
                    For Standing Committees of the Senate, see pages.......................
                        33, 34
                    For Standing Committees of the House, see pages....................... 26,
                        27
                
            

            
                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.- OF THE
                        -INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
                
            

            
            
                BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS
                THESE Reporters deem it reasonable, that, along with the announcement of another
                    volume, they should declare some of the considerations which encourage them to
                    make it. One of these reporters was of the staff of writers organized for
                    verbatim reports in Congress at the expense of the treasury in 1848, which gave
                    to history the Congressional Globe, Dr. Houston's Proceedings and Debates of the
                    National Senate and the Congressional Record. In 1857, seeing the general
                    appreciation of these national works, and with some notion of their value, these
                    reporters adventured their hands in connection with the local; daily press, for
                    reports of Proceedings and Debates in the Indiana Legislature This connection
                    with the daily press has proved unfortunate; though the demand for their Reports
                    has protracted it, under all the difficulties involved, till the close of the
                    last Session of the last General Assembly.
                These difficulties consist principally, perhaps, in the unfitness of the
                    vanishing newspaper for any complete historical depository: but there were
                    others which appeared at once, and increased with the growing Municipality of
                    Indianapolis - Whilst the BREVIER could not pretend to absolute completeness as
                    to the records of proceedings and debates, its completeness proved to be too
                    much for the newspaper: and the newspaper worked against the Reports by
                    restricting the space contracted and paid for the Reports, by sinister marrings
                    of the "copy," and editorial mention. So the connection was made sometimes with
                    the newspaper of one political bias, and sometimes with that of another bias,
                    but always with the same result of unfitness and clashing of interest and whims.
                    The newspaper saw that the BREVIER might interfere with the precedent of
                    subsidies it had always received from the treasury for the supply of current
                    news-reading to members of the Legislature and the people, under the name of
                    compensation for their legislative reports which excepting so far as the
                    presence of the BREVIER may have constrained it to behave better as soon as the
                    legislative subscriptions were accorded, they failed not to reduce to the
                    scrimping style and space of a telegraphic dispatch. But the last Legislature
                    finding that the cost, of their newspaper subsidies exceeded that of the
                    authorized BREVIER REPORTS, the subsidy was cut off by the act of Dec. 19, 1872
                    By that act the newspaper became justly and legally recognized as but
                    "stationery" for the people and their representatives, and, by implication, as
                    unfitted and unworthy to be intrusted an authorized at the public expense as the
                    depository of their solemn legislative records. The BREVIER REPORTS, however
                    were continued through the succeeding regular session of the General Assembly of
                    1873 - two years ago - still with this unfit and hostile newspaper connection,
                    when these reporters were compelled to sever it finally for reasons stated, and
                    which the following statement in their page of errata may also express: The
                    journals of the business of both Houses as well as the debates, almost every day
                    of the session, were marred by the diminutions practiced in the office of the
                    Indianapolis Daily Sentinel for which these reports were
                    originally furnished under a contract designed to provide against such
                    interferences."
                Gathering from these experiences, that it has become a purpose accepted and
                    determined by the people of the State to continue the BREVIER form of their
                    legislative records as the cheapest, the best, and the best provocative and sign
                    of the popular demand for more acceptable legislative reports by the press at
                    large, these reporters have prepared themselves to furnish the work once more -
                    this time independently of the newspaper.
                The fact that the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS have been acceptable to the
                    Legislature and the people every session since the first volume for the extra
                    session of 1858 cannot be taken as authorizing the work for the present session.
                    The work has stood sternly on its merits with each particular session since: and
                    with that understanding on the part of these reporters, it is offered now; with
                    the ability and desire to make such an abridgement of State Legislative Record
                    in the best form and at the cheapest rate.
                Therefore the offer is continued: To furnish the proceedings and debates in this
                    form for two-thirds of a cent a page per copy to the extent of 1750 copies, (the
                    same number that has been uniformly printed of the BREVIER, the laws and
                    journals ).
                This proposition is made in good faith, and submitted with knowledge of its
                    responsibilities. It is delicately submitted further, that by it the Legislature
                    may, at the smallest possible cost to the Treasury, secure an impartial and
                    reliable record of its Proceedings and Donates for the press and the people.
                
                    A. & W. H DRAPIER;
                    Indianapolis,
                    
                        March 10, 1875
                    
                
            
            
            
                ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS VOLUME FIFTEEN.
                Having heretofore, several times, made known to the Legislature and the country
                    their readiness to be relieved from the publication of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
                    REPORTS, these reporters deem it reasonable, that, along with the announcement
                    of another volume, they should declare some of the considerations which
                    encourage them to make it. One of these reporters was of the staff of writers
                    organized for verbatim reports in Congress at the expense of the treasury in
                    1848, which gave to history the Congressional Globe, Dr. Houston's Proceedings
                    and Debates of the National Senate and the Congressional Record. In 1857, seeing
                    the general appreciation of these national works, and with some notion of their
                    value, these reporters adventured their hands in connection with the local daily
                    press, for reports of Proceedings and Debates in the Indiana Legislature. This
                    connection with the daily press has proved unfortunate; though the demand for
                    their Reports has protracted it, under all the difficulties involved, till the
                    close of the last Session of the General Assembly.
                These difficulties consist principally, perhaps, in the unfitness of the
                    vanishing newspaper for any complete historical depository: but there were
                    others which appeared at once, and increased with the growing municipality of
                    Indianapolis. Whilst the BREVIER could not pretend to absolute completeness as
                    to the records of proceedings and debates, its completeness proved to be too
                    much for the newspaper: and the newspaper worked against the Reports by
                    restricting the space contracted and paid for the Reports, by sinister marrings
                    of the " copy," and editorial mention. So the connection was made sometimes with
                    the newspaper of one political bias, and sometimes with that of another bias,
                    but always with the same result of unfitness and clashing of interest and whims.
                    The newspaper saw that the BREVIER might interfere with the precedent of
                    subsidies it had always received from the treasury for the supply of current
                    news-reading to members of the Legislature and the people, under the name of
                    compensation for their legislative reports, which - excepting so far as the
                    presence of the BREVIER may have constrained it to behave better as soon as the
                    legislative subscriptions were accorded, they failed not to reduce to the
                    scrimping style and space of a telegraphic dispatch. But the last Legislature
                    finding that the cost of their newspaper subsidies exceeded that of the
                    authorized BREVIER REPORTS, the subsidy was cut off by the act of Dec. 19, 1872.
                    By that act the newspaper became justly and legally recognized as but
                    "stationery" for the people and their representatives, and, by implication, as
                    unfitted and unworthy to be intrusted and authorized at the public expense as
                    the depository of their solemn legislative records. The BREVIER REPORTS, however
                    were continued through the succeeding regular session of the General Assembly of
                    1873 - two years ago - still with this unfit and hostile newspaper connection,
                    when these reporters were compelled to sever it finally for reasons stated, and
                    which the following statement in their page of errata may also
                    express:"
                The journals of the business of both Houses as well as the debates, almost every
                    day of the session, were marred by the diminutions practiced in the office of
                    the Indianapolis Daily Sentinel for which these reports were
                    originally furnished under a contract designed to provide against such
                    interferences.
                Gathering from these experiences, that it has become a purpose accepted and
                    determined by the people of the State to continue the BREVIER form of their
                    legislative records as the cheapest, the best, and the best provocative and sign
                    of the popular demand for more acceptable legislative reports by the press at
                    large, these reporters have prepared themselves to furnish the work once more -
                    this time independently of the newspaper.
                The fact that the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS have been acceptable to the
                    Legislature and the people every session since the first volume for the extra
                    session of 1858 cannot be taken as authorizing the work for the present session.
                    The work has stood sternly on its merits with each  particular session since: and with that
                    understanding on the part of these reporters, it is offered now; with the
                    ability and desire to make such an abridgement of the State Legislative Record
                    in the best form and at the cheapest rate. The principal thing is the requisite
                    readiness, energy and stability of the party to undertake it, and to hazard the
                    expensiveness of the reporting, printing and submission of the work.
                Therefore the offer is continued: To furnish the proceedings and debates in this
                    form for two-thirds of a cent a page per copy to the extent of 1750 copies, (the
                    same number that has been uniformly printed of the BREVIER, the laws and
                    journals,) printed and ready for order in the early morning succeeding the date
                    of each day of the session; the work to be completed the day following the close
                    of Regular Session, excepting the Index and matter referred to the Appendix.
                This proposition is made in good  and submitted with knowledge of
                    responsibilities. It is delicately submitted further, that by it the Legislature
                    may, at the smallest possible cost to the Treasury, secure an instant and
                    reliable record of its Proceedings and Debates for the press and the people;
                    that the body knows what it will do, and may act at an early day so as to
                    justify these reasonable conjectures of the undersigned, or relieve them from
                    further labor and expense in this matter. Meanwhile they will work, as
                    heretofore, and wait for authorization and orders.
                
                    A. & W. H. DRAPIER.
                    Indianapolis,
                    
                        Jan. 6, 1875.
                    
                
            
            
                Key to the Diagram of the Senate.
                
                    Desk
                    The Member occupying it,
                    26 Baxter, Wm. Wayne.
                    19 Beardsley, James R., Elkhart.
                    50 Bearss, Daniel R, Miami and Howard.
                    11 Bell, Robert C., Allen.
                    36 Boone, A. J., Boone and Clinton.Bowman, J. A., Washington &
                        Jackson.
                    15 Bunyan, Wm. Noble and Lagrange.
                    3 Cardwell, P., Hamilton and Tipton.
                    32 Chapman, C. W. Koseiusko & Whitley.
                    28 Cree, R. H., Madison and Delaware.
                    49 Culbertson, W. Ripley, Switzerland and Ohio.
                    8 Daggy, Addison, Putman and Hendricks. Davidson, Jasper, Posey and
                        Gibson.
                    10 Dykeman, D. D., Cass and Carroll
                    31 Friedley, G. W., Lawrence and Monroe.
                    16 Friedley J. H. Scott Jennings and Decatur.
                    27 Given, Noah S, Franklin and Dearborn.
                    25 Gooding, H. C., Vanderberg. Grove, J. B., Brown and
                        Bartholomew.
                    5 Hackelman, E., Huntington and Wabash.
                    37 Harney, Jno. F., Montgomery.
                    14 Haworth R. M., Fayette, Union & Rush.
                    12 Henderson, J., St. Joseph and Starke.
                    42 Hendricks, J. B., Pike and Warrick.
                    21 Hough, Wm. R., Henry and Hancock.
                    38 Howard, W. J., Steuben and DeKalb.
                    2 Humphrey, A. Greene and Daviess.
                
                
                    Desk
                    The Member occupying it.
                    30 Johnson, F. C. Clark and Floyd.
                    18 Johnson, Jas. T., Parke & Vermillion.
                    35 LaLue, Jno. M., Tippecanoe.
                    33 Major, Geo., Benton, Newton, Jasper & White.
                    34 Maxwell, James, Marion & Morgan.
                    24 Neff, Andrew J., Randolph.
                    20 Oliver, D. H., Marion.
                    41 Peed, Henry A., Martin, Dubois & Orange.
                    29 Rhodes, W. P., Fountain & Warren.Ringo, M. B., Owen &
                        Clay.
                    44 Roe, Jno. L., Jefferson.
                    13 Sarnighausen, Jonn, Alien, Adams & Wells.
                    17 Scott, Harvey D., Vigo.
                    7 Skinner, T. A. E., Lake & Porter.
                    39 Slater, M. R., Shelby & Johnson.
                    22 Sleeth, H. D., Rush & Decatur.
                    43 Smith, M. R., Marshall, Fulton & Pulaski.
                    48 Stockslager, S. M., Crawford & Harrison.
                    23 Thompson, W. C., Marion.
                    4 Tobin, R., Spencer & Perry.
                    9 Underwood, Isaac, Grant, Blackford & Jay. Wilson, Henry
                        K.f Sullivan & Knox.
                    40 Winterbotham, J. H., Laporte.
                
                
                
                    The figure shows the floor layout of the Indiana Senate Chamber. The
                        layout shows the locations of the President of the Senate, the Journal
                        Clerk, Principal Clerk, Assistant Clerk, Brevier Reporter, and fifty desks
                        (numbered) for the Senators, along with the doors and miscellaneous
                        seating.
                
            
            
            
                STANDING RULES AND ORDERS FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
                    SENATE. [IN FORCE AT THE LAST SESSION.]
                1. The President shall take the chair every day precisely at ten o'clock in the
                    forenoon, and two o'clock in the afternoon, unless the Senate shall, by motion,
                    have adjourned to some other hour appointed by such motion. He shall immediately
                    call the Senators to order; and, on the appearance of two-thirds, shall cause
                    the journal of the preceeding day to be read.
                2. Nine Senators with the President, or ten in his absence, having chosen a
                    President pro tem, shall be authorized to call a Senate,
                    compel the attendance of the absent Senators, make an order for their fine or
                    censure and may adjourn.
                3. The President shall preserve order and decorum, may speak to points of order
                    in preference to Senators, rising from his seat for that purpose; and shall
                    decide questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Senate, by any two
                    Senators, on which appeal no Senator shall speak more than once, unless by leave
                    of the Senate.
                4. The President shall rise to put a question, but may state it sitting.
                5. Questions shall be distinctly put in this form, to-wit: ''As many as are of
                    the opinion, that (as the question may be) say Aye," and after the affirmative
                    voice is expressed, "an many as are of the contrary opinion, say No." If the
                    President doubts or a division be called for, the Senate shall divide; those in
                    the affirmative of the question, shall first rise from their seats, and
                    afterward those in the negative.
                6. The President shall have a general direction of the Senate Chamber. He shall
                    have the right to name any Senator to perform the duties of the Chair, but such
                    substitution shall not extend beyond an adjournment. He shall have the right to
                    name any Senator to bear messages to the House.
                7. The President shall, when the Senate is equally divided, give the casting
                    vote.
                8. Thirty one Standing Committees, not to exceed seven members, shall be
                    appointed by the President of the Senate, at the commencement of each session,
                    viz.
                
                    First - On Ejections.
                    Second - On Finance.
                    Third - On Judiciary.
                    Fourth - On Education.
                    Fifth - On Corporations.
                    Sixth - On Roads.
                    Seventh - On Benevolent Institutions of the
                        State.
                    Eighth - On Agriculture.
                    Ninth - On Banks.
                    Tenth - On Manufactures.
                    Eleventh - On Public Printing.
                    Twelfth - On Public Buildings.
                    Thirteenth - On State Prisons.
                    Fourteenth - On Canals and Internal
                        Improvements.
                    Fifteenth - On the State Library.
                    Sixteenth - On Fees and Salaries.
                    Seventeenth - On Claims.
                    Eighteeenth - On Military Affairs.
                    Nineteenth - On Phraseology, Arrangement and Enrollment of
                            Bills.
                    Twentieth - On Unfinished Business.
                    Twenty-first - On Organization of Courts.
                    Twenty-second - On Expenditures.
                    Twenty-third - On Federal Relations.
                    Twenty-fourth - On Swamp Lands.
                    Twenty-fifth - On Temperance.
                    Twenty-Sixth - On County and Township Business.
                    Twenty-seventh - On Rights and Privileges of the Inhabitants of
                            the State.
                    Twenty-eighth - On Reformatory Institutions.
                    Twenty-ninth - On Emigration.
                    Thirtieth - On Insurance.
                    Thirty-first - On Railroads.
                
                9. It shall be the duty of the Committed on Elections to
                    examine and report upon the certificates and other credentials of the Sen-  ators returned to serve in the Senate, and
                    to take into consideration all petitions, documents and evidence relating to
                    elections, which may be referred to them by the Senate; and each of the other
                    committees shall perform such services, and take into consideration all subject
                    and matters required of them by the Senate.
                10. No Committee shall sit during the sitting of the Senate without special
                    leave.
                11. All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided without
                    debate.
                12. When any Senator is about to speak in debate, or deliver any matter to the
                    Senate, he shall rise from his seat, respectfully address himself to the
                    question under debate and avoid personality. No Senator shall impeach the
                    motives of any other Senator's vote or argument.
                13. If any Senator, in speaking or otherwise, transgress the rules of the Senate,
                    the President shall, or any Senator may, call him to order; in which case the
                    Senator so called to order, shall immediately sit down unless permitted to
                    explain; and the Senate shall, if appealed to, decide the case, but without
                    debate. If there be no appeal, the decision of the chair shall be submitted to.
                    If the decision be in favor of the Senator called to order, he shall be at
                    liberty to proceed. If otherwise, and the case require it, he shall be liable to
                    the censure of the Senate.
                14. When two or more Senators happen to rise at once, the President shall name
                    who is to speak first.
                15. No Senator shall speak more than twice on the same question without leave of
                    the Senate, nor more than once until every member choosing to speak shall have
                    spoken,
                16. While the President is putting the question, or addressing the Senate, no
                    Senator shall walk across or out of the house, nor when a Senator is speaking
                    shall any entertain private discourse or pass between him and the Chair.
                17. No Senator shall be compelled to vote on any question in the event of which
                    he is immediately and particularly interested, or in any case where he was not
                    present when the question was put, but appearing afterwards he may, by
                    permission, have his name called and vote, provided his vote does not change the
                    result.
                18. Upon a division and count of the Senate, on any question, no Senator without
                    the bar should be counted.
                19. Every Senator why shall be in the House when the question is put, shall give
                    his vote unless the Senate, for special reasons excuse him. But the question of
                    excusing a Senator shall be decided summarily without debate.
                20. When a motion is made and seconded, it shall be stated by the President; or,
                    being in writing, it shall be handed to the Secretary, and then read aloud
                    before debated.
                21. Every motion shall be reduced to writing, if the President or any Senator
                    desire it, endorsed by the Senator introducing it, and the name of the author
                    announced by the Secretary before reading.
                22. After a motion is stated by the President and read, it shall be deemed in the
                    possession of the Senate, but may be withdrawn at any time before decision or
                    amendment.
                23. When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but
                
                    1st. To adjourn.
                    2d. To lie on the table;
                    3d. For the previous question.
                    4th. To postpone indefinitely;
                    5th. To postpone to a certain day;
                    6th. To commit; or,
                    7th. To amend.
                
                Which several motions shall have precedence in the order which they stand
                    arranged.
                24. When a question is postponed indefinitely, the same shall not be acted upon
                    during the session.
                25. The previous question shall be put in this form: "Shall the main question be
                    now put?" It shall only be admitted when demanded by a majority of the Senators
                    voting and until it is decided, shall preclude all debate, and the introduction
                    of all further amendments. The main question shall be the first question in
                    order, and its effect shall be to put an end to all debate, and bring the Senate
                    to a direct vote on the subsidiary questions then pending, in their order, and
                    then on the main question.
                26. Motions and reports may be committed at the pleasure of the Senate.
                27. Any member may call for the division of a question where the sense will admit
                    of it.
                28. No new motion or proposition shall be admitted under color of amendment, as a
                    substitute for the motion or proposition under debate.
                29. When a motion has once been made and carried in the affirmative or negative,
                    it shall be in order for any Senator of the majority to move a reconsideration
                    thereof, on the same or any other day during the session but such motion can be
                    entertained but once during the same session.
                30. When the reading of a paper is called for, if any objection is made it shall
                    be decided by a vote of the Senate.
                31. The unfinished business in which the Senate was engaged at the last
                    preceeding adjournment shall have the preference in the  orders of the day, and no motion or any other
                    business shall be received without special leave of the Senate until the former
                    is disposed of.
                32. If a question depending be lost by adjournment of the Senate and revived on
                    the succeeding day, no Senator who shall have spoken twice on the preceeding
                    day, shall be permitted again to speak without leave.
                33. Petitions, memorials, and other papers addressed to the Senate may be
                    presented by the President, or by any Senator.
                34. A motion to adjourn shall always be in order, except when the previous
                    question is pending, and shall oe decided without debate. The question pending
                    on adjournment shall be resumed on reassembling unless otherwise ordered by the
                    Senate.
                35. It shall be in order for the committee on Phraseology,
                        Arrangement and Enrollment of Bills, to report at any
                    time when no question is before the Senate.
                36. Every bill shall be introduced by motion on leave, or by order of the
                    Senate.
                37. Every bill shall receive three several readings in the Senate, previous to
                    its passage, and all bills shall be dispatched as they were introduced unless in
                    case of urgency.
                38. The first reading of a bill shall be for information, and if opposition be
                    made to it, the question shall be: Shall the bill be rejected? If no opposition
                    be made, or the question to reject being negative, the bill shall go for its
                    second reading without a question.
                39 Upon the second reading of a bill the President shall state that it is ready
                    for commitment, amendment or engrossment: and if committed then the question
                    shall be; Whether to a select or standing committee or to a Committee
                        of the Whole Senate? If to a Committee of the Whole
                        Senate, the Senate shall determine on what days; but if the bill
                    be ordered to be engrossed the Senate shall appoint the day when it shall be
                    read the third time. It shall be in order to read bills on their second reading
                    by title, for reference, and, when so referred, it shall in order for the
                    committee to which they shall be referred to report on the same with or without
                    amendments, and the bill, when returned shall be upon the second reading, and
                    shall then, with the amendments proposed if any, be read through by
                    sections.
                40. Every report of a committee upon a bill, which shall not be considered at the
                    time of making the same, or laid on the table by a vote of the Senate, shall
                    stand upon the general orders with a bill, and entered on the Journal.
                41. After commitment and report thereof to the Senate, or at any time before its
                    passage, a bill may re-committed.
                42. No amendment by way of a rider shall be received to a bill on its third
                    reading.
                43. When a bill shall pass, it shall be certified by the Secretary noting at the
                    foot thereof the day of its passage.
                44. In forming a Committee of the Whole Senate, the President
                    leaving the chair shall appoint a chairman to preside.
                45. Upon bills committed to a committee of the Whole Senate
                    the bill shall be first read throughout by the Secretary, and then again read
                    and debated by clauses, leaving the preamble to be last considered. The body of
                    the bill shall not be defaced or interlined, but all amendments,, noting the
                    page and line, shall be duly entered by the Secretary on a separate paper, as
                    the same shall be agreed to by the Committee, and so reported to the Senate;
                    after report, the bill shall again be subject to be debated and amended by
                    clauses, before a question to engross it be taken.
                46. All questions, whether in Committee or in the Senate, shall be put in the
                    order in which they are moved, except that in filling up blanks, the largest sum
                    and longest time shall he first put.
                47. No motion or proposition for a tax or charge upon the people shall be
                    discussed the day on which it is made or offered; and every such proposition
                    shall receive its first discussion in a Committee of the Whole
                        Senate.
                48. The rules of proceeding in the Senate shall be observed in a
                        Committee of the Whole Senate, so far as they may be
                    applicable, except the rule limiting the time of speaking, but no Senator shall
                    speak twice to any question until every Senator choosing to speak shall have
                    spoken.
                49. No standing rule or order of the Senate shall be rescinded or changed without
                    one day's notice being given of the motion there for.
                50. No Senator shall absent himself from the service of the Senate, unless he
                    have leave, or be sick and unable to attend.
                51. Each Officer of the Senate shall take an oath for the true and faithful
                    discharge of the duties of his office, to the best of his knowledge and
                    abilities; and shall be deemed to continue in office until another is
                    chosen.
                52. It shall be the duty of the Doorkeeper to attend the Senate during its
                    sittings; execute all its demands and process to him given and directed; give
                    notice of and carry all messages, either public or private, he may be required
                    to carry; keep the Senate chamber and furniture clean and in due order, and at
                    all times keep good and sufficient fires when  the same may be necessary; when requested to call a Senator, he should do so
                    by name.
                53. When a reference is made of any subject to a standing committee, the Senator
                    introducing the same shall be a member of such committee during its
                    deliberations thereon, but shall have no power to vote.
                54. The daily order of transacting business shall be as follows, viz: 1st.
                    Reading and correcting the Journal of the proceeding day. 2nd. Introduction of
                    petitions, memorials and remonstrances. 3d. Reports from Standing Committees.
                    5th. Resolutions of the Senate. 6th. Joint resolutions. 7th. Bills. And 8th.
                    Orders of the day. First, Messages from the House, requiring
                    action on the part of the Senate. Second. Bills on second
                    reading. Third. Bills on third reading.
                55. After a bill has passed, and not before, the title may be announced.
                56. When a bill or joint resolution shall have failed for want of a
                    constitutional majority, but shall have received the vote of the majority of the
                    members present, it shall be subject to be called up in its order, at the
                    instance of any Senator, on any subsequent day, but when it shall have failed to
                    receive the votes of a majority of the members present, it shall only be again
                    called up by a motion to reconsider the previous vote.
            
            
                JOINT RULES FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS IN
                    THE TWO HOUSES OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY, AS IN FORCE AT THE LAST
                    SESSION.
                1. While Bills and Joint Resolutions are on their passage between the two Houses,
                    they shall be on paper, under the signature of their Clerks respectively.
                2. After a Bill or Joint Resolution shall have passed both Houses, it shall be
                    duly enrolled on paper, and the Clerk of the House where it originated shall
                    indorse upon the back thereof the House in which it originated, under which he
                    shall place his signature.
                3. Every Bill or Joint Resolution, after being enrolled, shall be examined by the
                        Joint Committee of Enrolled Bills, consisting of three
                    from the Senate and six from the House, appointed as a standing committee for
                    that purpose - one of whom on the Part of the Senate and two from the House
                    shall be sufficient to act, who shall compare the same with the engrossed bill,
                    and correct any errors they may discover, so as to make it agree therewith, and
                    make their report forthwith to their respective Houses.
                4. Every Bill or Joint Resolution reported to have been duly enrolled shall be
                    signed first by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, who shall send the
                    same to the Senate; then by the President of the Senate; after which it shall be
                    presented by the Joint Committee of Enrolled Bill to the
                    Governor for his approbation and signature; and the said Committee shall report
                    to their respective Houses the day of their presentation, which report shall be
                    entered on the Journals of each House.
                5. All Bill and Joint Resolutions shall be signed by the Speaker of the House of
                    Representatives and the President of the Senate, in their Houses respectively
                    when in session, which shall be carefully noted on the Journals of each
                    House.
                6. When any paper or papers, proper to be acted upon by both Houses, shall come
                    before either, the House before which such paper or papers are laid, shall,
                    after acting thereupon, lay it or them before the other House.
                7. In every case of an amendment of a Bill agreed to in one House, and dissented
                    to in the other, if either house shall request a conference, and appoint a
                    committee for that purpose, and the other House shall also appoint a committee
                    to confer, such committee shall, at a convenient hour, to be agreed upon by
                    their chairman, meet in the conference chamber, and state to each other,
                    verbally, or in writing, as either shall choose, the reason of their respective
                    Houses for and against the amendment, and confer freely thereon, and report to
                    each House their proceedings thereon. A committee of
                        conference shall consist of two members from each House. After
                    each House shall have adhered to their disagreement a Bill or Resolution shall
                    be lost.
                8. In all cases where the Sergeant-at-  Arms
                    of one House shall, by reason of official engagements, or other cause, be unable
                    to execute the commands or process of the House of which he is an officer, it
                    shall be the duty of the Sergeant-at-Arms of the other House to execute such
                    commands, together with such process as may be directed to him by the presiding
                    officer thereof.
                9. The following Standing Committees, on the part of each House, shall be
                    appointed to act as joint committees:
                A Standing Committee on Enrolled Bills, to consist of six on
                    the part of the House, and three on the part of the Senate.
                A Committee on Public Buildings, to consist of three members
                    from each House.
                A Committee on State Library, to consist of three members from
                    each House.
                A Committee on Canal Fund, to consist of three members from
                    each House.
                10. In all elections which require a distinct and separate vote of each House,
                    the voting shall be simultaneous in both Houses. No person shall be deemed to be
                    elected in the proper House, making such separate choice, unless he receives a
                    majority of all the votes given in such House. Each House shall, as soon as a
                    choice shall be made on such separate voting, forthwith communicate the same to
                    the other House, and if it shall appear that the House have concurred in their
                    choice of any or either of the persons so voted for, such person or persons
                    shall be deemed and declared duly elected. But if the Houses do not concur in
                    their choice of each and all the officers so to be elected, then, in such case,
                    the two Houses shall, in like manner, forthwith proceed to a second separate
                    choice of the remaining officers so attempted to be elected. But if no
                    concurrence then be had, the two Houses shall, in like manner, proceed to a
                    third separate choice. If the two Houses shall not have concurred in their third
                    separate choice, the two Houses shall proceed to a joint vote instanter, for the election of such officer or officers as the two
                    Houses may have failed, for want of concurrence as aforesaid, to elect.
                11. In all Joint Conventions and meetings of the two Houses, it shall be
                    incompetent for either House, or the members thereof, or the Joint Convention,
                    to engage in the transaction of any business other than that for which they were
                    so specifically assembled.
                12. When a message is sent to the Senate, or to the House of Representatives, it
                    shall be announced at the door by the Sergeant-at-Arms, or by the Doorkeeper,
                    and it shall be respectfully communicated to the Chair, by the person by whom
                    sent.
                13. Messages shall be sent by such persons as the President of the Senate, or
                    Speaker of the House, may designate for that purpose.
                14. No Bill that shall have passed one House, shall be sent for concurrence to
                    the other, on the last two days of the session.
                15. When Bills which shall have passed one House, are ordered to be printed in
                    the other, a greater number of copies shall not be printed than may be necessary
                    for the use of the House making the order.
                16. No spirituous liquors shall be offered for sale, or exhibited, within the
                    Capitol, or on the public grounds adjacent thereto.
            
            
                "The Place to which you Aspire."
                It is awkward for a man to propose himself for any position in the public
                    service: They say: "He goes a candidating" - "He is aspiring." If this is not
                    the case with Mr. A. DRAPIER, of St. Joseph County, in his present asking for
                    the Assistant Clerkship of the House of Representative, it should be understood
                    with qualifications. As an individual, he might perhaps do better without the
                    position than to serve in it. It would be natural to think so almost of any
                    citizen. He says truly, in his announcement to the nominating caucus of the
                    Democratic side, that he desires chiefly to make a good Journal - one that will
                    compare favorably with the standard Legislative Journals of the country. It is
                    for the sake of the service - the good of the public service - that he desires
                    the position.
                Something of the importance of this position may be seen in the Act of Dec. 23,
                    1872, to Regulate certain Matters of Legislative Practice in the two Houses of
                    the General Assembly. It requires a committee on the Journal
                    of each House, of which the President of one and the Speaker of the other shall
                    be respectively chairman; and these committees are charged to inspect the unread
                    Journals of their respective Houses. - Assuredly, next in importance to the
                    integrity and authenticity of the facts of the record, is the style in which the
                    Journal is recorded, written, spread for the printer and public archives. For
                    there is such a thing as a received parliamentary style.
                Then also, the printing should be done in the best style of the Art Preservative
                    - in honest small pica type - eliminating all unsightly headings and expressive
                    blanks and scabbardings
            
            
            
                STANDING RULES AND ORDERSFOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THEHOUSE OF
                    REPRESENTATIVES.[IN FORCE AT THE LAST SESSION.]
                
                    TOUCHING THE DUTY OF THE SPEAKER.
                    1. The Speaker shall take the Chair every day precisely at the hour to which
                        the House shall have adjourned on the preceding day; shall immediately call
                        the members to order and, on the appearance of a quorum, shall cause the
                        Journal of the preceding day to be read, unless, by a vote of the House, the
                        reading of the same be dispensed with.
                    2. The Speaker shall examine and correct the Journal before it is read. He
                        shall have a general direction of the Hall. He may name any member to
                        perform the duties of Chair, but such substitution shall not extend beyond
                        an adjournment. He shall have the right to name any member to bear messages
                        to the Senate, and to appoint all committees, unless otherwise specially
                        directed by the House, in which case they shall be appointed by vote.
                    3. The Speaker shall preserve order and decorum. He may speak to points of
                        order in preference to other members, rising from his seat for the purpose,
                        and shall decide questions of order, subject to an appeal to the House by
                        any two members, which appeal shall be in writing and signed by the members
                        taking such appeal, and shall clearly state the point of order decided by
                        the Chair, on which appeal no member shall speak more than once, unless by
                        leave of the House.
                    4. The Speaker may state a question sitting, but shall rise to put a question
                        to the vote of the House.
                    5. Questions shall be distinctly put in this form, namely: " As many as are
                        of the opinion that (as the question may be), say aye," and after the
                        affirmative vote is expressed, "as many as are of the contrary opinion, say
                        no." If the Speaker doubts, or a division be called for, the House shall
                        divide: those in the affirmative shall first rise from their seats, and
                        remain standing until they are counted, and afterwards those in the negative
                        in like manner. If the Speaker still doubts, or a count be required, the
                        Speaker shall name two members, one from each side, to tell those in the
                        affirmative and negative, and the result being reported, he shall rise up
                        and report the decision of the House.
                    6. When the yeas and nays are taken upon any question, the names of the
                        members shall be called alphabetically: alter the call of the roll has
                        commenced, and any member has responded to his name, no motion shall be made
                        in reference thereto, or debate had thereon.
                    7. When any vote ia taken by the yeas and nays, the question shall be stated
                        in the following manner, namely: "As many as are of the opinion, that,
                        etc.,will, when their names are called, answer 'aye,' and as many as are of
                        a different opinion, will, when their names are called, answer 'no.'" And
                        when the vote is taken upon the passage of any bill or joint resolution, and
                        when the same may be demanded by the House, the Clerk shall, after the roll
                        has been gone through, first read over the names of those who have answered
                        in the affirmative, and then the names of those who have answered in the
                        negative, in order that if he has made any mistake in noting the answer, or
                        if any member has made a mistake in his answer, the mistake of either may be
                        corrected.
                    8. The Speaker shall vote in all elections, and when the yeas and nays are
                        taken he shall vote, his name being called last; and in case of an equal
                        division, the question shall be lost; and upon all other questions, when the
                             House is equally divided, he shall
                        give the casting vote, or when his vote would make an equal division he
                        shall vote upon the call of any member; and in case of such equal division
                        the question shall be lost.
                    9. All acts, addresses, and joint resolutions shall be signed by the Speaker;
                        and all writs, warrants, and subpoenas issued by the order of the House,
                        shall be under his hand and seal, and signed by the Clerk.
                    10. In case of any disturbance or disorderly conduct in the galleries or
                        lobby, the Speaker (or Chairman of the Committee of the Whole
                            House) shall have power to order the same to be cleared.
                
                
                    ABSENCE AND CALL OF THE HOUSE.
                    11. No member shall absent himself from the service of the House, unless he
                        have leave, or be sick and unable to attend.
                    12. Seven members, with the Speaker, or eight members in his absence, having
                        a Speaker pro tem, may call the House to order, compel the attendance of
                        absent members, make an order for their fine and censure, and adjourn from
                        day to day until a quorum are in attendance.
                    13. Upon the call of the House the names of the members shall be called over
                        by the Clerk, and the absentees noted; after which the names of the
                        absentees shall again be called over, the doors shall then be shut, and
                        those from whom no excuse, or insufficient excuses are made, may, by order
                        of those present, be taken into custody, as they appear, or may be sent for
                        and taken into custody wherever to he found, by the Sergeant-at-Arms, or
                        such officer discharging the duties of such Sergeant, or special messenger
                        as shall be appointed for that purpose.
                    14. When a member shall be discharged from custody, and admitted to his seat,
                        the House shall determine whether such discharge shall be with or without
                        paying fees, and in like manner whether a delinquent member, taken into
                        custody by a special messenger, shall or shall not be liable to defray the
                        expenses of such special messenger.
                
                
                    RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
                    15. Every resolution of the House shall be written upon not less than a full
                        half sheet of paper, and shall be signed by the member offering it.
                    16. Every motion shall be reduced to writing, if the Speaker, or any member
                        request it.
                    17. When a motion is made and seconded, it shall be stated by the Speaker; or
                        being in writing, shall be handed to the Chair, and read aloud by the Clerk,
                        before it shall be debated.
                    18. After a motion is stated by the Speaker, or read by the Clerk, it shall
                        be deemed to be in possession of the House, but may be withdrawn at any time
                        before a decision, or amendment.
                    19. No motion, or proposition on a subject different from that under
                        consideration shall be admitted under color of amendment.
                    20. A motion to adjourn, and a motion to fix a day to which the House shall
                        adjourn, shall be always in order, and these motions, and the motions to lie
                        on the table shall be decided without debate.
                    A motion to adjourn shall not be put whilst the question is pending, on
                        seconding the demand for the previous question.
                    When less than a quorum is present, no-motion shall be entertained except to
                        adjourn or for a call of the House.
                    No motion can be made without rising, and addressing the Chair.
                    A motion for adjournment, or for the order of the day, can not be made by one
                        member while another is speaking.
                    A motion which has been decided out of order can not be renewed.
                    Motions to postpone to a day certain, to commit or amend, may be amended, and
                        shall have precedence in the order named.
                
                
                    OF DECORUM AND DEBATE.
                    21. When any member desires to speak in debate, or deliver any matter to the
                        House, he shall rise from his seat, and respectfully
                        address "Mr. Speaker," and shall confine, himself to the question under
                        consideration,, and avoid personality, nor shall he impeach the motive of
                        any member's vote or argument.
                    22. If any member, in speaking otherwise, transgress the rules of the House,
                        the-Speaker shall, or any member may, call to order, in which case, the
                        member so called to order shall immediately sit down, unless-permitted to
                        explain; and the House shall, if appealed to, decide on the case, but
                        without debate. If there be no appeal, the decision of the Chair shall be
                        submitted to. If the decision be in favor of the member called to order, he
                        shall be at liberty to proceed, if otherwise, he shall not be permitted to
                        proceed, in case any member object, without leave of the house; and, if the
                        case require it, he shall be liable to the censure of the House.
                    23. If a member be called to order for words spoken in debate, the person
                        calling him to order shall repeat the words excepted to, and they shall be
                        taken down in writing at the Clerk's table: and no member shall be held to
                        answer, or be subject to the censure of the House, for words spoken in
                        debate, if any other member has spoken or other business has intervened,
                        after the words spoken, and before exception to them shall have been
                        taken.
                    
                    While the Speaker is putting any question, or addressing the House, none
                        shall walk out of or across the House; nor, in such case, or when a member
                        is speaking, or delivering any matter to the House, shall pass between him
                        and the Chair. Every member shall remain uncovered during the session of the
                        House. No member or other person shall visit, or remain by the Clerk's table
                        while the ayes and nays are being called.
                    25. Every member who shall be in the House when the question is put shall
                        give his vote, unless the House, for special reasons, shall excuse him. All
                        motions to excuse a member from voting shall be made before the House
                        divides, or before the call of the ayes and nays is commenced; and any
                        member requesting to be excused from voting, may make a brief verbal
                        statement of the reasons for making such request, and the question shall
                        then be taken without further debate; and the refusal of a member to vote
                        who is present and has not been excused from voting, will be a high breach
                        of decorum, and will subject the person so offending to a fine, censure, and
                        such other punishment as the House may order and impose.
                    26. No member shall vote on any question in the event of which he is
                        immediately and particularly interested, or in any case when he was not
                        within the bar of the House when the question was put, unless by the consent
                        of the House; and in no case shall such absent member be allowed to vote
                        after the result has been announced, when his vote shall change the decision
                        of the question. For the purpose of determining whether a quorum is present,
                        all members within the House, when the question is stated by the Speaker,
                        and the vote is on a call of the ayes and nays, shall be counted, and such
                        of them as fail to respond to their names when called, shall be noted by the
                        Clerk as present, and not voting. The Hall of the House shall be deemed and
                        held to include the entire chamber in which this body holds its
                        sessions.
                    27. Upon a decision, and count on any question on which the ayes and nays are
                        not demanded or required, no member without the bar shall be counted.
                    28. When two or more members happen to rise at once, the Speaker shall name
                        the the member who is first to speak.
                    29. No member shall speak more than twice on the same question without the
                        leave of the House, nor more than once until every member choosing to speak
                        shall have spoken And if a question depending be lost by adjournment of the
                        House and revived on the succeeding day, no member, who shall have spoken on
                        the preceding day, shall be permitted again to speak without leave of the
                        House.
                
                
                    OF THE DIGNITY AND PRIVILEGE OF QUESTIONS.
                    30. When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but to
                        adjourn, to lie on the table, for the previous question, to postpone to a
                        day certain, to commit, amend, or to postpone indefinitely, which several
                        motions shall have precedence in the order in which they are arranged; and
                        no motion to postpone to a day certain, to commit or to postpone
                        indefinitely, being decided, shall again be allowed on the same day, and at
                        the same stage of the bill or proposition. A motion to strike out the
                        enacting words of a bill or joint resolution shall have precedence of a
                        motion to amend, and if carried, shall be considered equivalent to its
                        rejection.
                    31. When a motion is made to refer any subject, and different committees are
                        named, the question shall be taken in the following order: 1. To a
                            Committee of the Whole. 2. Standing
                            Committee. 3. A Select Committee. And if
                        the motion of reference is to different Standing Committees, the question
                        shall be taken in the order in which the committees are named.
                    32. Any member may call for the division of a question, before or ofter the
                        main question is ordered, which shall be divided if it comprehend
                        propositions in subjects so distinct, that one being taken away, a
                        substantive proposition shall remain for the decision of the House. A motion
                        to strike out and, insert shall be deemed indivisible, but a motion to
                        strike out being lost, shall preclude neither amendment nor a motion to
                        strike out and insert.
                    33. The previous question shall be in this form "Shall the main question be
                        now put?" It shall only be admitted when demanded by a majority of the
                        members present, and its effect shall be to put an end to all debate, and
                        bring the House to a direct vote upon a motion to commit, if such motion
                        shall have been made, and if this motion does not prevail, then upon
                        amendments reported by a committee, if any, then upon pending amendments,
                        and then upon the main question. But its only effect, if a motion to
                        postpone is pending, shall be to bring the House to a vote upon such motion.
                        On the previous question there shall be no debate. All incidental questions
                        of order arising after a motion is made for the previous question, and
                        pending such, motion, shall be decided, whether on appeal? or otherwise,
                        without debate. And after a demand for the previous question has been
                        seconded by the House, no motion shall be entertained to excuse a member
                        from voting.
                    34. When a motion has been once made and carried in the affirmative or
                        negative, it shall be in order for any member of the majority to move for
                        the reconsideration there-  of, on the
                        same or the succeeding day, and such motion shall take precedence of all
                        other questions, except a motion to adjourn, and shall not be withdrawn
                        after the said succeeding day, without the consent of the House, and
                        thereafter any member may call it up for consideration.
                    35. Any member may change his vote before the result is announced; and
                        afterwards, by leave of the House, provided such change will not effect the
                        result.
                    36. When a question is postponed indefinitely, the same shall not be acted on
                        again during the session.
                    37. When a paper is first presented to the House it shall be a matter of
                        right in any member to have it read, before the House shall vote upon it. If
                        the paper has been once read, or the reading dispensed with, and the reading
                        be again required and objected to, it shall be determined by a vote of the
                        House.
                
                
                    OF THE STANDING COMMITTEES.
                    38. The following Standing Committees, to consist of seven members each,
                        shall be appointed at the commencement of each session, namely:
                    
                        1st. On Elections.
                        2d. On Ways and Means.
                        3rd. On Judiciary.
                        4th. On Organization of Courts of Justice.
                        5th. On Banks.
                        6th. On Education.
                        7th. On Affairs of the State Prisons.
                        8th. On Swamp Lands.
                        9th. On Military Affairs.
                        10th. On Claims.
                        11th. On Trust Funds.
                        12th. On Fees and Salaries.
                        13th. On Sinking Fund.
                        14th. On Eights and Privileges of the Inhabitants of the
                                State.
                        15th. On Railroads.
                        16th. On Manufactures and Commerce.
                        17th. On County and Township Business.
                        18th. On Agriculture.
                        19th. On Benevolent and Scientific
                            Institutions.
                        20th. On Temperance.
                        21st. On Mileage and Accounts.
                        22d. On Corporations.
                        23rd. On Canals.
                        24th. On Public Expenditures.
                        25th. On-Federal Relations.
                        26th. On Affairs of the City of
                            Indianapolis.
                        27th. On Cities and Towns.
                        28th. On Engrossed Bills.
                        29th. On Roads.
                        30th. On Statistics and Emigration.
                        31st. On Insurance Companies.
                        32d. On Printing.
                        33d. On Reformatory Institutions.
                        34th. On Drains and Dykes.
                    
                    39. The following Joint Standing Committees shall be appointed at the
                        commencement of each session, to consist of such members on the part of the
                        House and Senate as may be ordered in the Joint Standing Rules, namely: a
                            Committee on Enrolled Bills; a Committee on
                            the State Library; a Committee on the Canal
                            Fund; and a Committee on Public Buildings,
                        whose duty shall be prescribed in the Joint Rules.
                    40. It shall be the duty of the several Standing Committees to examine into
                        and report upon all matters that properly belong to them, and all matters
                        that may be referred to them, either by bill or otherwise.
                    41. It shall be the imperative*duty of the Committee on Engrossed
                            Bills to carefully compare the engrossed with the original
                        Bills and Joint Resolutions, and ascertain whether they have, in all
                        respects, been accurately and correctly engrossed; and if such Committee
                        ascertain any mistake, the same shall be corrected under their
                        directions.
                    42. It shall be in order for the Committee on Engrossed and Enrolled
                            Bills to report at any time, when no question is before the
                        House; and such committees may hand their reports to the Principal Clerk,
                        without notice to the House.
                    43. No Committee shall sit during the session of the House, without special
                        leave.
                
                
                    COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
                    44. In forming a Committee of the Whole, the Speaker shall
                        leave the Chair, and designate some member of the House to preside as
                        Chairman.
                    45. Upon a Bill being committed to a Committee of the
                            Whole, the same shall be first read through by the Clerk,
                        (unless otherwise ordered by a majority,) and then again read for amendment
                        by clauses or sections, leaving the preamble, if any, and the title, to be
                        last considered. After report, when the bill is reported to the House, it
                        shall again be read, if desired by a majority, for amendment and debate,
                        before a question for engrossing it shall be taken.
                    46 The body of the bill shall not be defaced or interlined; and all
                        amendments shall be disposed of by the Committee, either by adoption or
                        rejection, or such as shall have been agreed to, shall be duly entered by
                        the Clerk on a separate paper, and so reported to the House, and the same
                        shall be considered in the House, in the order in which they were adopted in
                        committee, and shall be incorporated with the motion, and so reported. The
                        rules above shall apply to all subjects in Committee of the
                            Whole.
                    47. The rules of proceeding in the House shall be observed in a
                            Committee of the 
                            Whole, so far as the same are applicable, except the rule
                        limiting the time of speaking; but no member shall speak twice to any
                        question until every member choosing to speak shall have spoken.
                    48. All questions, whether in Committee of the Whole or in
                        the House, (not privileged questions,) shall be propounded in the order in
                        which they are moved, except that in filling up blanks, the largest sum and
                        longest time shall be first put.
                    49. No motion or proposition for a tax or charge upon the people shall be
                        discussed the day on which it is made or offered; and every such bill shall
                        receive its first discussion in the Committee of the Whole
                            House.
                    50. It shall be in order to introduce and discuss anv resolution properly
                        relating to the public affairs when in Committee of the
                            Whole, with a view to test the sense of the House upon the
                        question proposed.
                
                
                    ORDER OF BUSINESS OF THE DAY.
                    51. As soon as the Journal is read, and the unfinished business in which the
                        House was engaged, at the last preceding adjournment, has been disposed of,
                        reports from Committees shall be called for and disposed of, in doing which
                        the Speaker shall call upon each Standing Committee in regular order, and
                        then upon Select Committees. And if the Speaker shall not get through the
                        call upon the Committees before the House passes to other business he shall
                        resume the next call where he left off, giving preference to the report last
                        under consideration. Provided, That whenever any Committee
                        shall have occupied the morning hour on two days, it shall not be in order
                        for such committee to report further, until the other Committees shall have
                        been called in their turn.
                    52. Reports from Committees having been presented and disposed of, the
                        Speaker shall call for resolutions and bills from members by counties
                        arranged alphabetically ; and if on any day all the counties shall not be
                        called, the Speaker shall begin the next day where he left off the previous
                        day.
                    53. After two hours shall have been devoted to reports from committees,
                        resolutions and bills, it shall be in order, pending the consideration or
                        discussion thereof, to entertain a motion that the House do now proceed to
                        dispose of the business on- the Speaker's table, and to the order of the
                        day, which being decided in the affirmative, the Speaker shall dispose of
                        the business on his table in the following order:
                    
                        1st. Executive and other communications.
                        2d. Messages from the Senate and amendments proposed by the Senate to
                            bills of the House.
                        3d. Bills and resolutions from the Senate on their first and second
                            reading that they be referred to committees and put under way; but if on
                            being read a second time, no motion being made to commit, they are to be
                            ordered to their third reading, unless objection be made, in which case,
                            if not otherwise ordered by a majority of the House, they are to be laid
                            on the table in the general file of bills on the Speaker's table, to be
                            taken up in their turns.
                        4th. Engrossed bills and bills from the Senate on their third
                            reading.
                        5th. Bills of the House and from the Senate on the Speaker's table on
                            their engrossment, or on being ordered to a third reading, to be taken
                            up and considered in the order of time in which they passed to a second
                            reading.
                    
                    The messages, communications and bills on his table having been disposed of
                        the Speaker shall then proceed to call the orders of the day.
                    54. The consideration of the unfinished business in which the House may be
                        engaged at an adjournment shall have preference in the order of the day, and
                        no motion on any other business after the reading of the Journal snail be
                        received without special leave of the House, until the former is disposed
                        of.
                
                
                    BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS.
                    55. Bills and Joint Resolutions, out of the regular order, may be introduced
                        on the report of a committee, or by motion for leave, which shall be granted
                        only by a majority of the House.
                    56. The first reading of a bill shall be for information, and if opposition
                        be made to it, the question shall be" Shall this bill be rejected?" If no
                        opposition be made, or if the question to reject be negatived, the bill
                        shall then pass to a second reading unless the House shall otherwise
                        order.
                    57. Upon the second reading of a bill, the Speaker shall state it as ready
                        for commitment, amendment or engrossment; and if committed, then the
                        question shall be whether to a Select or a Standing Committee, or to a
                            Committee of the Whole House. If to a
                            Committee of the Whole House, the House shall
                        determine on what day; if no motion be made to commit, the question shall be
                        stated on its engrossment, and if it be not ordered to be engrossed on the
                        day of its being reported, it shall be placed on the general file on the
                        Speaker's table, to be taken up in order.
                    58. General appropriation bills shall be in order in preference to any other
                        bills of a public nature, unless otherwise ordered by a majority of the
                        House. The House, at any time, may, by a majority vote, make any
                        appropriation bill a special order.
                    59. A motion to strike out the enacting words of a bill shall have precedence
                        of a  motion to amend, and, if carried,
                        shall be equivalent to its rejection. Whenever a bill is reported from a
                            Committee of the Whole, with a recommendation to
                        strike out the enacting words, and such recommendation is disagreed to by
                        the House, the bill shall stand recommitted to the said committee, without
                        further action of the House.
                    60. If any bill or other proposition be referred to a committee, and any
                        members of such committee make a minority report, such report shall be
                        regarded as an amendment to the report of the committee.
                    61. All Bills and Joint Resolutions ordered to be engrossed shall be executed
                        in a fair, round hand
                    62. After commitment and report thereof to the House, or at any time before
                        its passage, a bill may be recommitted to the same, or any other Committee,
                        either with or without instruction. But after a Bill or Joint Resolution has
                        been engrossed and ordered to a third reading, it shall not be amended
                        except by unanimous consent, but may be recommitted, with special
                        instructions, by a two-thirds vote, and should such recommitment take place
                        after its engrossment, and an amendment be reported and agreed to by the
                        House, the question shall be again put on the engrossment of the Bill.
                    63. When a Bill or Joint Resolution shall be put on its passage, and shall
                        receive a majority of the votes cast, but not the number of votes required
                        by the Constitution, the same shall not be considered lost; but when Bills
                        and Joint Resolutions upon their third reading shall be in order, any member
                        who voted with the majority, or who did not vote at all, may call the same
                        up, and the House shall take another vote thereon, and any number of votes
                        may be taken in such cases by the House, but there shall be no debate
                        thereon.
                    64. No bill or Joint Resolution shall, at any time, be amended by annexing
                        thereto, or incorporating therewith, any other Bill or Resolution pending
                        before the House.
                    65. A motion to lay proposed amendments on the table, if they prevail, shall
                        not affect the general subject to which said amendments are offered.
                    66. Members having petitions and memorials to present may hand them to the
                        Clerk; indorsing the same with their names, and the reference or disposition
                        to be made thereof; and such petition and memorial shall be entered on the
                        Journal. And if any petition or memorial be so handed in, which, in the
                        judgment of the Speaker, is not respectful and temperate, and free from
                        offensive imputations upon the character or conduct of the Assembly or other
                        constituted authority, it shall be returned to the member from whom it was
                        received. Any member having any petition, memorial, remonstrance,
                        resolution, bill, or other matter of which he was the mover or introducer,
                        shall have the right to meet with and act as a member of the Committee
                        during the time said Committee may have such subject under
                        consideration.
                    67. No standing rule or order of the House shall be rescinded or charged
                        without one day's notice being given of the motion there-of; nor shall any
                        rule be suspended except by a two-thirds vote.
                    68. No persons except members of the General Assembly and its officers, and
                        members of the Executive and Judicial departments of State, shall be
                        admitted within the north lobby of the hall of the House, without consent of
                        the Speaker.
                    69. The Principal and Assistant Clerks, and their assistants, and the
                        Doorkeeper and his Assistants, shall each, before entering upon the
                        discharge of their respective duties, take an oath to support the
                        Constitution of the United States and of this State, and to faithfully,
                        impartially and honestly discharge the duties of their offices.
                    70. The Clerk shall keep a Journal of the decisions of the Chair, to be
                        inserted at the close of the Journal of the House.
                    71. During the reading of the Journal of the House, no member, officer,
                        employee of the House, whose station is within the bar of the House, shall
                        leave his station or seat, unless he shall have the consent of the House
                        therefor.
                
                
                    DOORKEEPER.
                    72. It shall be the duty of the Doorkeeper to attend to the House during its
                        sessions, announce all messages, keep the hall and committee rooms in
                        perfect order; to prevent smoking in the halls and lobbies; to maintain
                        order in the lobbies; to execute all process issued by the authority of the
                        House, and directed to him by the Speaker; and in all things to execute the
                        command of the Speaker and of the House. 
                
            
            
            
                
                    The figure shows the floor layout of the Hall of the House of
                        Representatives. The layout shows the locations of the Speaker of the House,
                        the Clerk's Desk, the Principal Clerk, Assistant Clerk, Brevier Reporter,
                        and one hundred and two desks (numbered) for the Representatives, along with
                        the doors and lobby areas.
                
                
                Key to the Diagram of the Hall of theHouse of
                    Representatives.
                
                    Desk
                    The Member occupying it.
                    13 Ames, Samuel, Lake co.
                    91 Andersen, J. H., Tippecanoe co. Arnold, James, Pike co
                    78 Barney, Geo. T., Noble, Elkhart co.
                    97 Bearss, Geo. W., Kosciusko & Fulton,
                    88 Bellows, Thomas J., Clark co.
                    93 Benee, George W., Clay co.
                    36 Brown, B., Ripley, Decatur & Rush.
                    100 Brown, Geo H , Jasper & White co.,
                    57 Burson, Geo., Fulton, Pulaski & Stark.
                    98 Caldwell, Frank , Clinton co.
                    3 Cantley, John A., Cass co.
                    33 Charters, David, Miami co.
                    83 Clark, Nathan H., Hamilton co.
                    25 Collins, Alf. B., Washington co.
                    94 Crane, Chas. E,, Knox co.
                    7 Crumpacker, Thos , Porter co.
                    90 Dale, Hiram, Wabash co.
                    39 Darnall, James, Howard co.
                    18 Davidson, Alex. A., Jackson co.
                    64 Davis, John S ,Floyd co.
                    21 Edwards, James G., Putnam co.
                    99 Emerson, James, Benton & Newton.
                    31 Evans, Edward, Laporte co.
                    49 Favorite, James C., Hunting on co.
                    58 Forkner, Mark E., Henry co.
                    2 Fulk, Martin C., Greene co,
                    45 Gilbert, Jacob., Vigo co.
                    12 Glasgow, E. B., Steuben co.
                    77 Gossman, And'w J., Martin & Dubois.
                    11 Harper, Samuel, Lagrange.
                    67 Harris, Bronson L., Wayrie co.
                    32 Harris, George W., Madison co.
                    43 Havens, Benj. F , Vigo co.
                    85 Haynes, John H., Perry co.
                    79 Heighway, John D.. Kosciusko co.
                    70 Heller, Mahlon, Alien eo.
                    6 Henderson, M, L., Ripley co.
                    17 Hopkins, James, Marion co.
                    5 Horn, Patrick, Alien co.
                    1 Jackson, E. Y., Vermillion co.
                    38 Johnson, Columbus, Dearborn co.
                    84 Johnson, James L , Carroll co.
                    63 Keightley, Elijah T., Marion & Shelby.
                    61 Kennedy, E. C., Marion co.
                    102 Kennedy, John, Morgan co.
                    47 Kennedy, Peter S., Montgomery co.Lanham, James W., Jefferson
                        co
                    96 Law, L. C., Scott, Jennings & Jeffer'n.
                    68 Leeper, David R., St. Joseph co.
                    22 Lincoln, John C , Warren co.
                
                
                    Desk
                    The Member occupying it,
                    74 Martin, A. N , Adams & Wells.Martin, John S., Franklin,
                        co.
                    95 Marvin, Henry M , Boone co.
                    42 Marvin, Jesse, Fountain co.
                    30 Meginity, J- L., Crawford & Orange.
                    75 Miller, John R., Parke & Montgomery .
                    23 Miller, Wm. H., Vanderburg co.
                    81 Montgomery, Jacob W., Gibson co.
                    71 Morgan, James W., Hendricks co.
                    76 McCord, Smith, Hancock co.
                    37 McFadden, Cornelius. Johnson co.
                    69 McMichael, W. C , St. Jos.& Marshal.
                    73 Nash, James L., Sullivan co.
                    60 Osborn, Albert, Elkhart co.Pate, Wm. T., Switzerland &
                        Ohio.
                    41 Patterson, Wm,, Shelby co.
                    24 Pfaflin, Adolph. Vanderburg co.
                    20 Piatt, Nathan, Warrick co.
                    26 Ragan, Wm. Putnam & Hendricks.
                    89 Ramsey, Samuel, Harrison co.
                    65 Ratliff, Joseph C., Wayne co.
                    8 Reddick, J., Rush co.
                    48 Reeder, Martin A., Randolph co.Reno, Jesse H., Owen co.
                    28 Ribble, Wm., Delaware co.
                    53 Romine, James, Spencer co.
                    87 Roseberry, Wm., Monroe co.
                    27 Shaffer, A. H., Huntington & Wabash.
                    35 Shaw, Jno. N., Decatur co.
                    101 Shortridge, S., Tippecanoe co.
                    66 Shugart, Cornelius, Grant.
                    9 Smith, Matthew A., Jay & Delaware.
                    44 Snyder, Designey A., Marshall co.
                    16 Taylor, Harvey, Daviess co.
                    29 Taylor, Sam'l M., Hamilton & Tipton.
                    4 Thompson, Addison R. A., Henry &Madison.
                    50 Thomas, Daniel, Parke co.
                    62 Thompson, James, Marion co.
                    46 Trusler, Milton, Fayette & Union.
                    92 Turpie, David, Marion co.
                    10 Twibell, Wm.,Grant & Blackford.
                    59 Walz, John, Posey co. Washburn, Thomas, Whitley co.
                    52 Waterman, Miles, DeKalb co.
                    51 Willett, Oliver D., Noble co.
                    86 Williams, Alf., Brown & Bartholomew.
                    72 Williams, Andrew J., Lawrence co.
                    40 Woody, Sam'l, Miami & Howard.
                    19 Wynn, James M., Jennings co.
                
                It should not be forgotten in this announcement, that for the supply of the
                    press, the reading-rooms, the public offices and houses with the Proceedings and
                    Debates, the BREVIER can be obtained by individual order, at the prime cost of
                    three to five cents for one copy of each day's Proceedings and the postage
                    thereon. - These reporters solicit orders for supplying complete files of the
                    BREVIER REPORT for the Session, (including Index, etc.,) either wrapped and
                    stamped, or wrapped stamped and mailed the matter sent by mail to be duly
                    avouched according to law by the Indianapolis Postmaster. 
            
        
        
            
            
                
                    THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    VOLUME FIFTEEN.
                    INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            THURSDAY, January 7, 1875.
                        
                        This being the day prescribed by the Constitution of the State of Indiana
                            for the meeting of the General Assembly, pursuant to a provision in
                            Article IV, Section 9, which reads as follows: "The sessions of the
                            General Assembly shall be held, biennially at the capital of the State,
                            commencing on the Thursday next after the first Monday of January, in
                            the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-three, and on the same day
                            of every second year thereafter, unless a different day or place shall
                            have been appointed by law;" the Senate of the State of Indiana
                            assembled in the Senate chamber, at the Capitol, in the city of
                            Indianapolis at 10 o'clock, a. m.
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR, [Hon. LEONIDAS SEXTON, of Rush county,] by
                            virtue of his office being President of the Senate, ascended the forum,
                            and, rapping with a gavel on the desk, commanding order, said: Senators
                            holding over will please answer to their names as called.
                        The names of Senators elected in 1872 for the constitutional term of four
                            years, and who served as members of the last two sessions of the General
                            Assembly, were called in alphabetical order by the Hon. JAMES A.
                            WILDMAN, Auditor of State, whose duty it is, as such officer, to
                            "perform all and singular the duties which have heretofore been done and
                            performed by the Secretary of the Senate at the preceding session of the
                            General Assembly." [Act of December 23,1872, Section 8.] The twenty-four
                            Senators holding over answered to their names as follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        From the county of Vanderburg - H. Clay
                                            Gooding.
                                        From the counties of Washington and Jackson - John A.
                                            Bowman.
                                        From the counties of Lawrence and Monroe - George W.
                                            Friedley.
                                        From the counties of Scott, Jennings and Decatur - J.
                                            H. Friedley.
                                        From the counties of Decatur and Rush - George B.
                                            Sleeth.
                                        From the county of Vigo - Harvey D. Scott.
                                        From the counties of Owen and Clay - M. B.
                                            Ringo.
                                        From the counties of Shelby and Johnson - M. R.
                                            Slater.
                                        From the counties of Putnam and Hendricks - Addison
                                            Daggy.
                                        From the counties of Fountain and Warren - W. P.
                                            Rhodes.
                                        From the county of Laporte - J. H.
                                            Winterbotham.
                                        From the counties of Marshall, Fulton and Pulaski -
                                            Milo R. Smith.
                                        From the counties of Kosciusko and Whitley - Chas. W.
                                            Chapman.
                                        From the county of Elkhart - J. R. Beardsley.
                                        From the counties of Noble and Lagrange - Wm.
                                            Bunyan.
                                        From the counties of Steuben and DeKalb - W. I.
                                            Howard.
                                        From the counties of Adams, Alien and Wells - John D.
                                            Sarnighausen.
                                        From the counties of Boone and Clinton - Andrew J.
                                            Boone.
                                        From the county of Randolph - A. J. Neff.
                                        From the counties of Henry and Hancock - Wm. R.
                                            Hough.
                                        From the counties of Fayette, Union and Rush - R. M.
                                            Haworth.
                                        From the county of Marion - D. H. Oliver and W. C.
                                            Thompson.
                                        
                                        From the county of Montgomery - John F. Harney.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. - Twenty-four Senators holding over have
                            answered to their names. Senators recently elected, as their names are
                            called will please come forward and take the oath of office.
                        The names of the newly elected Senators were called in alphabetical order
                            by Auditor of State WILDMAN, and they ranged themselves in a semi-circle
                            in front of the President's dias, as follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        From the counties of Posey and Gibson - Jasper
                                            Davidson.
                                        From the Counties of Warrick and Pike - J. B.
                                            Hendricks.
                                        From the counties of Spencer and Perry - R.
                                            Tobin.
                                        From the counties of Sullivan and Knox - Henry K.
                                            Wilson.
                                        From the counties of Daviess and Green - A.
                                            Humphreys.
                                        From the counties of Martin, Orange and Dubois - H. A.
                                            Peed.
                                        From the counties of Crawford and Harrison - S. M.
                                            Stockslager.
                                        From the counties of Floyd and Clark - F. C.
                                            Johnson.
                                        From the counties of Brown and Bartholomew - J. B.
                                            Grove.
                                        From the county of Jefferson - John L. Roe.
                                        From the counties of Switzerland, Ohio and Ripley -
                                            William Culbertson.
                                        From the counties of Park and Vermillion - James
                                            Johnston.
                                        From the county of Tippecanoe - John M. LaRue.
                                        From the counties of Benton, Newton, Jasper and White
                                            - George Major.
                                        From the counties of Lake and Porter - DeForrest L.
                                            Skinner.
                                        From the counties of St. Joseph and Starke - Joseph
                                            Henderson.
                                        From the county of Allen - R. C. Bell.
                                        From the county of Huntington and Wabash - Elijah
                                            Hackleman.
                                        From the counties of Grant, Blackford and Jay - I.
                                            Underwood.
                                        From the counties of Miami and Howard - Daniel R.
                                            Bearss.
                                        From the counties of Cass and Carroll - D. D.
                                            Dykeman.
                                        From the counties of Hamilton and Tipton - Peter
                                            Cardwell.
                                        From the counties of Madison and Delaware - R. H.
                                            Cree.
                                        From the 'county of Wayne - (William Baxter.
                                        From the counties of Marion and Morgan - J. J.
                                            Maxwell.
                                        From the counties of Dearborn and Frankin - Noah S.
                                            Givan.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Twenty-six Senators have answered to their
                            names. You who swear will hold up your hands.
                        The oath of office was then administered by the Hon. HORATIO C. NEWCOMB,
                            one of the Judges of the Superior Court of Marion County in the
                            following words:
                        "You and each of you do solemnly swear that you will support the
                            Constitution of the United Slates and the Constitution of the State of
                            Indiana, and that you will faithfully discharge your duties as Senator
                            of the State of Indiana, so help you God."
                        This obligation in the form of an affirmation was taken by the Senator
                            from Wayne and the Senator from Judge NEWCOMB using in their case the
                            following words:
                        "You do solemnly declare and affirm that you will support the
                            Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
                            Indiana, and that you will faithfully discharge your duties as Senator
                            of the State of Indiana, so help you God."
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. - Senators, the first business in order, will be
                            the election of a Principal Secretary of the Senate. Are you ready for
                            nominations?
                        Mr. HOUGH. I put in nomination for principal secretary of the Senate,
                            Hon. JNO. OVERMYER, of Jennings county.
                        Mr. SMITH. I put in nomination Hon. GEO. W. DENBO, of Harrison county,
                            for principal secretary of the Senate.
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR Are there any other nominations? [After a pause.]
                            Call the roll.
                        The roll was called by Auditor WILDMAN, and the ballot resulted as
                            follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    Those voting for Mr. Overmyer were Messrs.:
                                    
                                        Baxter.
                                        Howard.
                                        Beardsley.
                                        Johnston, of Parke.
                                        Bearss.
                                        LaRue.
                                        Banyan.
                                        Major.
                                        Cardwell.
                                        Neff.
                                        Chapman.
                                        Oliver.
                                        Cree.
                                        Rhodes.
                                        Daggy.
                                        Roe.
                                        Friedley, of Lawrence.
                                        Scott.
                                        Friedley, of Scott.
                                        Sleeth.
                                        Gooding.
                                        Thompson.
                                        Hackleman.
                                        Tobin.
                                        Haworth.
                                        Underwood.
                                        Hough. - 27.
                                    
                                    Those voting for Mr. Denbo were Messrs.:
                                    
                                        Bell.
                                        Johnson, of Floyd.
                                        Boone.
                                        Maxwell.
                                        Bowman.
                                        Peed.
                                        Culbertson.
                                        Ringo.
                                        Davidson.
                                        Sarnighausen.
                                        Dykeman.
                                        Skinner.
                                        Givan.
                                        Slater.
                                        Grove.
                                        Smith.
                                        Harney.
                                        Stockslager.
                                        Henderson.
                                        Wilson.
                                        Hendricks.
                                        Winterbotham
                                        Humphrey. - 23.
                                    
                                
                            
                        

                        


                        [After the roll call was finished Mr. Cardwell changed his vote from Mr.
                            Denbo to Mr. Overmyer.]
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The whole number of votes cast is fifty,
                            necessary to a choice twenty-six. Mr. OVERMYER has received twenty-seven
                            votes, and Mr. DENBO, twenty-three. Mr. OVERMYER, is, therefore declared
                            elected Principal Secretary of the Senate. He will please come forward
                            and be sworn in.
                        The oath of office was then administered to Mr. OVERMYER by Judge
                            NEWCOMB.
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The next business in order will be the election
                            of Assistant Secretary of the Senate. We are now ready for
                            nominations.
                        Mr. MAJOR. I nominate WM. H. SMITH, of Cass county.
                        Mr. BOONE. I nominate OLNEY NEWELL, of the county of Boone, for Assistant
                            Secretary of the Senate.
                        There being no further nominations the ballot resulted as follows:
                        
                            
                                
                                    Those who voted for Mr. Smith were Messrs.
                                    
                                        Baxter.
                                        Beardsley.
                                        Bearss.
                                        Bunyan.
                                        Cardwell.
                                        Chapman.
                                        Cree.
                                        Daggy.
                                        Friedley, of Lawrence.
                                        Friedley, of Scott.
                                        Geoding.
                                        Hackleman.
                                        Haworth.
                                        Hough.
                                        Howard.
                                        Johnston, of Parke.
                                        LaRue.
                                        Major.
                                        Neff.
                                        Oliver.
                                        Rhodes.
                                        Roe.
                                        Scott.
                                        Sleeth.
                                        Thompson.
                                        Tobin.
                                        Underwood.-27.
                                    
                                    Those voting for Mr. Newell were Messrs.
                                    
                                        Bell.
                                        Boone.
                                        Bowman.
                                        Culbertson.
                                        Davidson.
                                        Dykeman.
                                        Given.
                                        Grove.
                                        Harney.
                                        Henderson.
                                        Hendricks.
                                        Humphrey.
                                        Johnson, of Floyd.
                                        Maxwell.
                                        Peed.
                                        Ringo.
                                        Sarnighausen.
                                        Skinner.
                                        Slater.
                                        Smith.
                                        Stockslager.
                                        Wilson.
                                        Winterbotham.- 23.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The whole number of votes cast is fifty,
                            necessary to a choice twenty-six, of which Mr. SMITH received
                            twenty-seven votes, and Mr. NEWELL, twenty-three. Mr. SMITH, was,
                            therefore, declared elected Assistant Secretary of the Senate. He will
                            come forward and be sworn in.
                        The oath of office was administered to Mr. SMITH.
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The next business in order is the election of
                            Principal Door-Keeper.
                        Mr. PEED. I nominate HIRAM McCORMICK of Martin county.
                        Mr. CREE. I nominate Mr. E. H. MENIFEE, of Madison county.
                        There being no further nominations the ballot resulted -
                        For Mr. Menifee 27 votes.
                        For Mr. McCormick 23 votes.
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. - The whole number of votes cast is 50,
                            necessary to a choice 26, of which Dr. Menifee has received 27 votes; Mr
                            McCormick 23. Dr. Menifee is therefore declared elected - I believe Dr.
                            Menifee cannot be here till evening as he is a witness in court; and for
                            this reason he cannot now take the oath of office. His place will be
                            supplied till he does come.
                        
                            RULES.
                            Mr. SLEETH. I offer the following resolution:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Senate adopt the rules of the Regular
                                            Session of 1873, for its government until such time as
                                            permanent rules shall be adopted by the Senate.
                                    
                                
                            
                             It was adopted.
                            Mr. FRIEDLEY of Lawrence. I move the appointment of a committee of
                                two to notify the House of Representatives of the organization of
                                the Senate.
                            Mr. GIVAN. Is it not customary for the Secretary of the Senate to
                                inform the House of the organization of the Senate?
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. - Our rules, just adopted, say expressly,
                                messages may be carried by any person designated for that
                                purpose.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. - I will appoint the Senator from Lawrence
                                [Mr. Friedley] and the Senator from Fulton [Mr. Smith] as said
                                committee.
                        
                        
                            DOORKEEPER.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. - With the consent of the Senate I will
                                appoint Mr. Finch, of Hamilton county, as one of the assistant
                                Doorkeepers until the arrival of the Principal Doorkeeper.
                            SEVERAL SENATORS - "Consent," " Consent."
                            It was so ordered by consent.
                        
                        
                            THE STATUTES.
                            Mr. LARUE. I offer the following resolution:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to furnish one
                                            copy of the Statutes of Indiana, one of the Acts of
                                            1869, 1871 and 1873 to each of the members of the
                                            Senate.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. SLEETH. Mr. President, I am not certain how members look at it,
                                but I am of opinion that this resolution is in violation of an act
                                passed at the last session - An act fixing the per diem of members
                                of the Assembly. That act cuts off all stationery and all other
                                perquisites. If the Statutes are not stationery I  don't know what is, I don't believe we
                                should pass this resolution.
                            Mr. SMITH. I move to lay the resolution on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. DAGGY. I offer the following:
                            Ordered, That the Librarian furnish three copies of Revised Statutes,
                                Gavin & Hord, three copies of the Acts of 1869, 1671 and 1873,
                                also Senate and House Journals for the use of the Senate.
                            Mr. SMITH. I would like to inquire whether that resolution is in
                                order, a similar one having just been laid on the table?
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. It is not the same resolution. It is in
                                order.
                            Mr. LARUE. Mr. President: It seems to me that members should have the
                                use of the acts of the Legislature, and it does not seem to me they
                                are or should be regarded as stationery. Possibly I may be able to
                                draft bills as well as any Senator, as I have been somewhat familiar
                                with the laws of the State, but it seems to me it is necessary that
                                members should have the use of the acts. They are not stationery. As
                                the old members of the Senate have received copies of these acts it
                                is not necessary for them to take them. I offered my resolution in
                                good faith. This resolution I am opposed to because it says but
                                three copies. That will not do. I shall go with Senators who favor
                                economy, and shall oppose furnishing writing paper and other things
                                strictly stationery, but I oppose this resolution because it says
                                only three copies.
                            Mr. DAGGY. At the last extra session we required in our resolution
                                that the statutes should be returned, but that amounts to nothing,
                                for, after being used one session members might as well take them
                                home, they are second hand and as far as the State is concerned they
                                are a total loss. It would cost the State from fifteen to twenty
                                dollars for each member. The three set of Statutes with the acts and
                                House journals, will give all the information needed by us as
                                members of the Senate. All measures, particularly those of
                                importance, are passed through the hands of committees, and they
                                will have the revised Statutes, consequently we scarcely ever refer
                                to the revised Statutes, and they are as useless lumber to us; and,
                                therefore, I offered this resolution, intending it to supercede the
                                resolution offered by the Senator from Tippecanoe [Mr. LaRue.]
                            Mr. SARNIGHAUSEN. If I am not mistaken the law provides that not only
                                stationery, but no books shall be furnished to members of the
                                Legislature.
                            Mr. SMITH. I move to lay the resolution on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. DYKEMAN. I offer the following resolution:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the State Librarian furnish to each
                                            Senator one copy of the Acts of the Regular and Special
                                            Session of 1873, also the Brevier Reports and Senate
                                            Journal of last Session.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. DAGGY. I move to lay it on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to - yeas 42, nays 8.
                        
                        
                            PAGES.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. For I the purpose of relieving Senators from
                                further embarrassments in that direction, I will exercise the
                                authority conferred upon me by the Statutes, and appoint the
                                following named boys as pages: CHARLES L. LUMBERT, AUGUSTUS LYNCH
                                MASON and EDDIE B. BROWN.
                        
                        
                            THE STATUTES AGAIN.
                            Mr. RHODES. I offer the following resolution:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Librarian of State be and she is
                                            hereby authorized, to furnish to each Senator, on his
                                            request, one complete set of the Statutes and acts of
                                            1871 and 1873, and charge the cost thereof to such
                                            Senators.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. SMITH. I move to lay it on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to upon a division of the Senate - affirmative
                                19, negative 18.
                            Mr. SLEETH. In order to give the Secretaries an opportunity to
                                organize their forces, I move that the Senate adjourn till 2
                                o'clock.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at two o'clock, p. m.
                            A message from the House of Representatives, announced the
                                organization that body.
                            Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Lawrence. I offer the following resolution:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That a committee of two on the part of the
                                            Senate, be appointed to join a like Committee on the
                                            part of the House to wait upon his Excellency the
                                            Governor, to inform him of the organization of the two
                                            Houses and learn of him at what time it will suit
                                            convenience to make whatever communication he may desire
                                            to the Legislature.
                                    
                                
                            
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR, will appoint upon that committee the Senator
                                from Lawrence [Mr. Friedley,] the Senator from Alien [Mr. Bell.]

                            
                                PAY OF MEMBERS.
                                Mr. HUMPHREYS. In compliance with the request of my constituents,
                                    as well as with my own feelings, and believing there is a
                                    disposition on the part of every member of this House, to
                                    curtail the ex-  penses of
                                    the State Government, and believing it well to commence here, I
                                    offer the following bill:
                                A Bill [S. 1.] for An Act to amend the first section of an act
                                    approved December 19th, 1872, and entitled "An act fixing the
                                    per diem and mileage of members of the General Assembly, and
                                    providing that they shall provide their own stationery."
                                [It makes the pay five dollars per day, and mileage, five dollars
                                    for every twenty-five miles.]
                                It was read the first time, and passed to the second reading.
                            
                            
                                LIQUOR LICENSE.
                                Mr. SMITH. I offer the following bill:
                                A Bill [S. 2.] for An Act to regulate and license the sale of
                                    spirituous, vinous, malt other intoxicating liquors, to repeal
                                    all former laws contravening the provisions ot this act and
                                    prescribing penalties for the violation thereof.
                                [It provides for a two hundred dollar yearly county license,
                                    which shall go to the school fund, and a one hundred thousand
                                    dollar bond for an orderly house, and imposes a penalty for
                                    selling to intoxicated persons, or to a minor, or for the
                                    adulteration of liquors. The full text of this bill may be
                                    printed in these columns at an early day.]
                                It was read the first time, and passed to the second reading.
                            
                            
                                PAY OF MEMBERS AGAIN.
                                Mr. DYKEMAN introduced a bill [S. 3.] for an act fixing the per
                                    diem of the members of the General Assembly and the employes,
                                    the mileage of the members, and the perquisites they shall
                                    receive in lieu ot stationery, paper, and stamps.
                                [It provides a per diem of five dollars and mileage at the rate
                                    of ten cents per mile, with one copy of the revised statutes for
                                    the term, and the sum of twenty-five dollars each session in
                                    lieu of stationery. The pay of the principal clerks, five
                                    dollars, the other clerks four dollars, and all other employees,
                                    three dollars per day.]
                                It was read the first time and passed to the second reading.
                            
                            
                                A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE.
                                A Committee from the House of Representatives
                                    was announced as being at the door, whereupon -
                                Representative MARVIN, of Boone, said: We are a committee of the
                                    House, Mr. President, appointed to meet a like committee on the
                                    part of the Senate, to wait upon the Governor, and inform him
                                    that we are organized, and ready to receive any communication
                                    from him.
                                The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR, The action of the Senate requires the
                                    appointment of an additional member. I will appoint upon that
                                    committee, the Senator from Fulton [Mr. Smith.]
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. LARUE introduced a bill [S. 4] for an act to repeal an act
                                    entitled "An Act to require Railroad companies to issue stock
                                    paid for by taxes voted in aid of their Railroads to the tax
                                    payer or their assignor, and to issue unclaimed stock for the
                                    benefit of the common school fund, and declaring an emergency,"
                                    approved December 17th, 1872.
                                MR. BEARDSLEY, introduced a bill [S. 5] for an act to amend
                                    Section 13th of an act entitled "An act providing for the
                                    election and qualification of Justices of the peace and denning
                                    their jurisdiction, powers and duties in Civil Cases," approved
                                    June 9th 1852.
                                [It provides that, no person being a resident of any towns within
                                    this State shall be sent out of said township, except as
                                    specified in the above mentioned acts, unless said suits is
                                    commenced by Capias ad respondendum or where there shall be no
                                    justice competent to act in said township, provided however that
                                    when the cause of action occurred in an adjoining township, suit
                                    may be brought in such adjoining township.]
                                Mr. ROE, introduced a bill [S. 6] for an act defining the salary
                                    of the Governor, and the manner of paying it.
                                [Five thousand dollars per annum.]
                                Mr. GIVAN submitted a bill [S. 7] for an act to amend Sections
                                    102 and 107, two hundred and seventy one, two hundred and
                                    severity seven, two hundred and seventy eight of "An Act to
                                    provide for the uniform assessment of property and for the
                                    collection and return of taxes there on," approved December 21st
                                    1872, and to provide for the election of Township Assessors and
                                    prescribing their duties.
                                Section 1 provides for a change in the time of the assessment of
                                    real estate from two to six years after the year 1875.
                                Section 2 provides for an election of an Assessor in the year
                                    1880 and every six years thereafter, by the people of the
                                    county.
                                Section 3 provides that the county Auditor shall furnish the
                                    necessary blanks and books.
                                Section 4 provides that the Board of county Commissioners and the
                                    Auditor shall meet at the county seat every year as a Board of
                                    Equalization tor the purpose of equalizing the assessment of
                                    personal property.
                                Section 5 declared that the Board of E- qualization shall consist of the
                                    county commissioners, Auditor and Assessors of real estate.
                                Section Six provides that on the second Tuesday in October 1876,
                                    and every two years thereafter, township Assessors shall be
                                    elected by the people, whose duty it shall be to assess the
                                    personal property of the township.
                                Section Seventh - Fixes the bond of the township assessor at
                                    $1,000.
                                Section Eighth - Declares that if the assessor does not file his
                                    bond before the second Monday in December after his election,
                                    his office shall be deemed vacant, and the Auditor shall
                                    appoint
                                Section Ninth - Declares the duties of the township assessors to
                                    be to assess personal property in the township, and perform such
                                    other duties required by law of the county assessor.
                                Mr. ROE introduced a bill [S. 8] for an act, fixing the per diem
                                    [$5] and mileage [$5 per every 50 miles] of members of the
                                    general assembly, and providing that they shall furnish their
                                    own stationery.
                                Mr. BELL introduced a bill [S. 9] for an act to authorize the
                                    organization of boards of trade, and other commercial
                                    associations, and defining their powers.
                                Mr. RELL introduced a bill [S.10] for an act to regulate public
                                    warehouses and warehousing and inspecting and mixing grain,
                                    making warehouse receipts assignable, prescribing the duties of
                                    warehousemen and inspectors of grain and providing
                                    penalties.
                                Mr. BEARDSLEY introduced a bill [S. 11] for an act declaring it
                                    to be unlawful to deprive certain employees of any railroad
                                    company of the benefit of the exemption laws of this State by
                                    attachment and garnishee proceedings being instituted without
                                    this State, and providing that wages so collected from any
                                    Railroad Co. due to certain employees maybe recovered back.
                                These bills were severally read the first time, and passed to the
                                    second reading.
                            
                            
                                RULES.
                                Mr. GOODING. I offer the following resolution:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved That a committee of three be appointed to
                                                report rules for the government of the Senate.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                It was adopted.
                                The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. This committee will consist of Senators
                                    Gooding, Scott and Givan.
                            
                            
                                COMMITTEE ROOMS.
                                Mr. SLEETH. I offer the following resolution:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That a committee of five be appointed by
                                                the President of the Senate for the purpose of
                                                procuring the necessary number of rooms to
                                                accommodate the committees of the Senate daring the
                                                present session, and to provide necessary furniture
                                                for the same; Provided, that in the selection of
                                                rooms the strictest economy consistent with the
                                                health and reasonable comfort of the members of the
                                                various committees shall be pursued.
                                            And provided further, that in case any furniture now
                                                owned by the State and not in use reasonably
                                                suitable for furnishing such rooms the same shall be
                                                subject to the order of said committee for the use
                                                of committee rooms during the present session.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                It was adopted.
                                The Lieutenant Governor subsequently appointed as said committee
                                    Messrs. Sleeth, Thompson, LaRue, Harney and Winterbotham.
                                Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Lawrence, from the Joint Committee appointed to
                                    wait upon the Governor, reported that His Excellency has named
                                    to-morrow at 10 o'clock a. m. as the hour for the delivery of
                                    his message.
                            
                            
                                PAY OF MEMBERS.
                                Mr. SKINNER. I offer the following resolution:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That a committee of five be appointed by
                                                the Senate whose duty shall be to recommend a bill
                                                for the pay and perquisites of members - perquisites
                                                to mean only such stationery and books as may
                                                contribute to the information of members.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                It was adopted.
                                The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I will name as that committee Senators
                                    Skinner, Haworth, Boone, Johnson of Floyd and Rhodes.
                                Mr. HOUGH introduced a bill [S. 12] for an act fixing the per
                                    diem of members of the General Assembly [$3 per day and $3 for
                                    every 25 miles traveled - no stationery] and the officers
                                    thereof [$3 per day - pages 1 1/2: with an emergency
                                    clause.]
                                It was read the first time and passed to the second reading.
                                Mr. DYKEMAN. I move for a suspension of the rules that the bill
                                    may be read the second time now.
                                A Constitutional provision requiring the yeas and nays, they were
                                    ordered and being taken resulted - yeas 41, nays 8.
                                So, two-thirds voting in the affirmative, the Constitutional
                                    restriction was dispensed with and the bill was read the second
                                    time.
                                Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Lawrence. I desire to amend Sec 1, as follows,
                                    to-wit: "And provided further that all persons who are now
                                    members of the Legislature who may have received any sum in
                                    excess of such sum of $3,00 shall have such excess deducted out
                                    of their pay as members of the present Legislature."
                                    [Laughter.]
                                Mr. HOUGH. I move to lay the amendment on the table.
                                
                                The motion was rejected - yeas 11, nays 38.
                                Mr. HOUGH. The amendment proposes a thing that cannot be done. It
                                    would be utterly impossible to coerce the re payment of money
                                    received by any member of this or any other General Assembly. It
                                    would be only encumbering the bill unnecessarily, and publishing
                                    to the world that we don't know what we are doing, If we are
                                    going to undo a thing, which some of us thought was right and
                                    proper, but which the people say was wrong, let us do it in
                                    earnest. Let us pass the bill as it is, and when that is done,
                                    if the people are not satisfied; and if the State has not money
                                    enough to run the government, let us assess members of the
                                    Legislature to run it.
                                Mr. FRIEDLEY of Lawrence. I am not here to say whether my
                                    amendment is in strict accordance with legal precedent or with
                                    law, but I do not suppose that any member of the Senate, or I
                                    may say of the other branch of the Legislature, requires an
                                    enactment to compel him to do that which he may believe to be
                                    right, or that which he believes the people regard as right I
                                    know my excellent friend from Hancock [Mr. Hough] would not stop
                                    to question the legality of this clause in the bill if it
                                    becomes a law, but would at once cover into the treasury all he
                                    has heretofore drawn, if any, in excess of three dollars a day.
                                    I am sure the Senator, and every other Senator would do that.
                                    Now I say with the Senator from Hancock, if we are going to
                                    reform, let us reform in earnest, and while reforming let us be
                                    just to Senators now here for the first time. If I, as one of
                                    the Senators holding over, have received eight dollars a day for
                                    the last session, is it right that I should ask one of these
                                    gentlemen who come here for the first time to serve for three
                                    dollars per day? I think in this instance justice to the people
                                    and to new Senators require that we should take out of our
                                    pocket th s money the people say does not belong to us and cover
                                    it back into the treasury.
                                Mr. THOMPSON. Why should all this sacrifice fall upon members of
                                    the Legislature? Why not extend it to the State officers and to
                                    the Governor? And then we will all be on a level. I did not vote
                                    for eight dollars a day, but then I don't like to do anything
                                    that don't pay. [Laughter.]
                                Mr. LARUE. I will say to the Senate that I am opposed to the
                                    bill, amendment and all. I am satisfied members are not getting
                                    any more than they ought to receive now. I voted to prevent this
                                    amendment going on the table, in order to render the bill more
                                    ridiculous than it is. I would be in favor of reducing the
                                    number of members of the Legislature to, say twenty-five in the
                                    Senate and fifty in the House, and giving them ten dollars a
                                    day. I would much prefer cutting our session down to four weeks.
                                    It would suit me much better than to sit here during the entire
                                    constitutional term.
                                Mr. DYKEMAN. While I am in favor of reform, I don't propose to
                                    carry it to such an extent as to be ridiculous. If this bill
                                    passes, it will go out to the world that this Senate is losing
                                    its dignity, and that is why I voted for the amendment, that
                                    they might both go together. I think the people will be
                                    satisfied to give us five dollars a day, and I introduced my
                                    bill in good faith.
                                Mr. SLEETH. I move that the amendment be indefinitely postponed.
                                    [Mr. Smith withdrawing his motion.]
                                The motion to indefinitely postpone, was rejected - yeas 14,
                                    nays, 36.
                                Mr. LARUB. I move to indefinitely postpone both the bill and the
                                    amendment,
                                The motion was rejected - yeas 14, nays 36.
                                Mr. DYKEMAN I move to amend the amendment by adding the
                                    following:
                                "No member of the General Assembly shall receive any Railroad
                                    pass during the term for which he was elected, and in case any
                                    member has accepted such pass, he shall cover into the Stare
                                    Treasury the value in Greenbacks or Gold of such pass."
                                    [Laughter.]
                                Mr. BUNYAN. In compliance with a resolution adopted to-day, a
                                    committee was appointed to draft a bill to fix the per diem of
                                    members of the Legislature. I now move to refer this bill with
                                    the pending amendments to that committee.
                                The motion was agreed to.
                                And then the Senate adjourned till ten o'clock to-morrow
                                    morning.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OP REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            THURSDAY, January 7, 1875.
                        
                        This day being the Constitutional day for the meeting of the Forty-ninth
                            General Assembly, the members elect of the House of Representatives came
                            together promptly at ten o'clock a. m., in the Representative Hall of
                            the Capitol in the City of Indianapolis, and were organized according to
                            law under the direction of the Hon. W. WJ CURRY, Secretary of State.
                        
                            THE ORGANIZATION.
                            At the hour of 10 a. m., the SECRETARY OF STATE, using the gavel on
                                thc Speaker's table,said: The hour having arrived for the
                                organization of the House  of
                                Representatives, all those persons on the floor who are not members
                                are requested to retire; and members are requested to take their
                                places inside the bar. From the returns which have been made, to the
                                office of Secretary of State, by the Clerks of the various counties
                                and districts, we have prepared a list of the names of gentlemen
                                elected to this body. I will call the prepared roll, and if error be
                                discovered in it, I will be obliged to any for its correction; and
                                as their names are called, gentlemen will please advance to the
                                front area and Judge Downey of the Supreme Court, will administer
                                the oath.
                            Mr. CLARK of Hamilton said: There are a few of us now here with
                                conscientious feeling in this matter - not wishing to swear, and not
                                wishing, as has been the case heretofore with such members, to go on
                                the record as having sworn, and we desire that there should be some
                                provision in the record to show this.
                            The SECRETARY. The Judge is willing and desires to make this
                                distinction. Therefore, those who affirm will remain in their places
                                whilst the roll call is being called, and will afterwards come
                                forward and affirm. I will call the roll in sections of twenty-five
                                names.
                            The roll was then called in the order of the counties and districts,
                                as authorized by the last apportionment for Representatives, and the
                                oath ot office was administered by Judge Downey to all the
                                Representatives elect, except Mr. Harris, of Wayne, he be absent at
                                the time, and Messrs. Jesse Marvin, of Fountain. Cornelius Shugart,
                                of Grant, J. C. Ratliff, of Wayne, J. C. Lincoln, of Warren, and
                                Nathan H. Clark, of Hamilton, affirming, as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            For the county of Posey - John Walz.
                                            For the county of Gibson - Jacob W.
                                                Montgomery.
                                            For the county of Vanderburg - Wm. H. Miller,
                                                Adolph Pfaflin.
                                            For the county of Warrick - Nathan Pyett.
                                            For the county of Pike - James Arnold.
                                            For the county of Spencer - James Romine.
                                            For the county of Perry - J. H. Haynes.
                                            For the county of Sullivan - Jas. L. Nash.
                                            For the county of Knox - Chas. E. Crane.
                                            For the county of Daviess - Harvey Taylor.
                                            For the county of Greene - M. C. Fulk.
                                            For the counties of Martin and Dubois -
                                                J. Gossman.
                                            For the counties of Crawford and Orange - John L.
                                                Magenity.
                                            For the county of Harrison - Samuel Ramsey.
                                            For the county of Floyd - John S. Davis.
                                            For the county of Clark - T. S. Bellows.
                                            For the county of Washington - Alfred B.
                                                Collins.
                                            For the county of Jackson - A. A. Davidson.
                                            For the county of Lawrence - Andrew J.
                                                Williams.
                                            For the county of Monroe - W. N. Roseberry.
                                            For the counties of Brown and Bartholomew - Alfred
                                                Williams.
                                            For the county of Jennings - James M. Wynn.
                                            For the counties of Scott, Jennings and Jefferson
                                                - Lewis C. Law.
                                            For the county of Jefferson - James W.
                                                Lanham.
                                            For the counties of Ripley, Decatur and Rush -
                                                Barker Brown.
                                            For the county of Ripley - Mortimer L.
                                                Henderson.
                                            For the counties of Switzerland and Ohio - William
                                                T. Pate.
                                            For the county of Decatur - John N. Shaw.
                                            For the county of Rush - Jacob Reddick.
                                            For the county of Vigo - Benjamin F. Havens,
                                                Joseph Gilbert.
                                            For the county of Owen - Jesse H. Reno.
                                            For the county of Clay - George W. Bence.
                                            For the county of Morgan - John Kennedy.
                                            For the county of Johnson - Cornelius
                                                McFadden.
                                            For the county of Putnam - James G.
                                                Edwards.
                                            For the county of Hendricks - J. W. Morgan.
                                            For the counties of Putnam and Hendricks - Wm. H.
                                                Ragan.
                                            For the county of Parke - Daniel Thomas.
                                            For the county of Vermilion - E. Y. Jackson,
                                                sr.
                                            For the counties of Parke and Montgomery - John R.
                                                Miller.
                                            For the county of Warren - Jas. C. Lincoln.
                                            For the county of Fountain - Jesse Marvin.
                                            For the county of Tippecanoe - J. H. Anderson,
                                                Samuel Shortridge.
                                            For the counties of Benton and Newton James
                                                Emerson.
                                            For the counties of Jasper and White - G. H.
                                                Brown.
                                            For the county of Lake - Samuel Ames.
                                            For the county of Porter - Theo.
                                                Crumpacker.
                                            For the county of Laporte - Edward Evans.
                                            For the county of St. Joseph - David R.
                                                Leeper.
                                            For the counties of Marshall and St. Joseph - W.
                                                C. McMichael.
                                            
                                            From the county of Whitley - Thomas
                                                Washburn.
                                            For the counties of Kosciusko and Fulton - George
                                                R. Bearss.
                                            From the counties of Fulton, Pulaski and Starke -
                                                George Burson.
                                            For the county of Kosciusko - John D.
                                                Heighway.
                                            For the county of Elkhart - Albert
                                                Osbourne.
                                            For the county of Noble - O. D. Willett.
                                            For the county of Lagrange - Samuel Harper.
                                            For the county of Steuben - E. B.
                                                Glassgood.
                                            For the county of Dekalb - Miles Waterman.
                                            For the county of Allen - Mahlon Heller, Patrick
                                                Horn.
                                            For the counties of Adams and Wells - Augustus N.
                                                Martin.
                                            For the county of Huntington - James C.
                                                Favorit.
                                            For the county of Wabash - Hiram Dale.
                                            For the counties of Huntington and Wabash - A. H.
                                                Shaffer.
                                            For the counties of Grant and Blackford - Wm.
                                                Twibell.
                                            For the county of Grant - C. Shugart.
                                            For the county of Miami - David Charters.
                                            For the county of Howard - James M.
                                                Darnall.
                                            For the county of Cass - John A Cantley.
                                            For the county of Carroll - James L.
                                                Johnson.
                                            For the county of Hamilton - Nathan Clark.
                                            For the counties of Hamilton and Tipton - Samuel
                                                M. Taylor.
                                            For the county of Clinton - F. D. Caldwell.
                                            For the county of Boone - Henry M. Marvin.
                                            For the county of Montgomery - Peter S.
                                                Kennedy.
                                            For the county of Madison - George W.
                                                Harris.
                                            For the county of Delaware - William
                                                Kibble.
                                            For he counties of Jay and Delaware - Matthew A.
                                                Smith.
                                            For the county of Randolph - Martin A.
                                                Reeder.
                                            For the county of Wayne - J. C. Eatliff, Bronson
                                                L. Harris.
                                            For the county of Henry - Mark E. Forkner.
                                            For the county of Hancock - Smith McCord.
                                            For the county of Marion - James Hopkins, James L.
                                                Thompson, David Turpie, E. C. Kennedy.
                                            For the counties of Henry and Madison - A. R. A.
                                                Thompson.
                                            For the counties of Fayette and Union - Milton
                                                Trusler.
                                            For the counties of Marion and Shelby - E. T.
                                                Keightley.
                                            For the county of Shelby - William
                                                Patterson.
                                            For the county of Dearborn - Columbus
                                                Johnson.
                                            For the county of Franklin - John S.
                                                Martin.
                                            For the counties of Noble and Elkhart - George T.
                                                Barney.
                                            For the county of Marshall - D. A. Snyder.
                                            For the counties of Miami and Howard - Samuel
                                                Woody.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            On the motion of Mr. HELLER, a call of the House was ordered and
                                taken, which determined the quorum - not reported.
                        
                        
                            THE SPEAKER.
                            The SECRETARY. A quorum is present: Is it the pleasure of the House
                                to proceed to the election of speaker?
                            On the motion of Mr. HELLER, the order was made by unanimous
                                consent.
                            Mr. DAVIS nominated the Hon. David Turpie, of Marion.
                            Mr. GLASGOW nominated the Hon. James M. Darnall, of Howard.
                            Mr. MILLER, of Vanderburg, nominated the Hon. Martin C. Fulk, of
                                Green.
                            A message from the Senate being announced at the door -
                            Mr. Senator FRIEDLEY, of Lawrence, announced that he was of a
                                committee for the Senate to notify the House of Representatives of
                                the organization of the Senate.
                            The SECRETARY. The Senator is informed that the House is not
                                organized. Mr. Heller and Mr. Edwards will act as tellers in the
                                ballot for speaker.
                            On motion of Mr. GLASGOW, it was ordered that the
                                election be taken viva voce.
                            Mr. TURPIE, suggesting that it is in accordance with parliamentary
                                usage for the tellers appointed by the Secretary to assist in making
                                the record of the vote, it was so-ordered by unanimous consent.
                            The vote proceeded and the Secretary reported the result, as
                                follows:
                            For Mr. Turpie, 56 votes; for Mr. Darnall, 32 votes; for Mr. Fulk, 9
                                votes, and Mr. Turpie having received a majority of all the votes
                                cast in the House, was declared by the Secretary and Speaker
                                thereof.
                            Whereupon -
                            The SECRETARY OF STATE, requested Messrs. Darnall and Fulk to wait on
                                Mr. Turpie and conduct him to the speaker's chair.
                            
                            That service being duly performed - the SPEAKER receiving the oath of
                                his office as speaker, at the hand of Judge Downey, stood before the
                                House and said:
                            Gentlemen - For this distinguished mark of your confidence in calling
                                me to preside over your deliberations I return you my sincere
                                thanks.
                            I trust in the attempt which I shall make to discharge the difficult
                                and delicate duties of the Chair, I may depend upon the continued
                                support of your forbearance and partiality.
                            The great and varied interests of the State are, for a season,
                                committed to our care. Let us see to it that we are diligent in the
                                discharge of this trust.
                            The constitutional limit of the session is a brief one. It is
                                therefore to be hoped that gentlemen having legislative measures to
                                propose will call attention to them at as early a day as possible,
                                so that the committees may be at work, and there may be fair and
                                full examination of every subject of importance brought before us
                                for public action.
                            Some changes of the law seem necessary public opinion has recently
                                indicated them. Let them be made as speedily as possible. Let us not
                                be anxious, however, to change or to do too much. Let us rather be
                                careful that what is done is well done.
                            If, without presumption, anything may be hazarded in the way of
                                counsel concerning our action here, it may be this: That the time of
                                the session should not be too much taken up with the discussion of
                                national politics.
                            Our connection as Legislators with those subjects is neither very
                                direct nor very efficient.
                            Very little attention is usually paid at Washington to the
                                traditional resolutions instructing our Senators and requesting our
                                Representatives in regard to their action even when the delegation
                                to Congress is in political accord with the Legislature here, and
                                still less, when it is not so, as is now the case. Discussion is
                                fruitless when the power to act and to determine is wanting. Nor
                                does this detract from the importance of our position. The
                                Legislature of the State ought not only to be the school, but the
                                sphere of the truest and best statesmanship in the country.
                            Let us, then, discourage all unprofitable debate. Let us work hand in
                                hand with a common purpose, to advance, in every possible way, the
                                interests of the State and the welfare of the generous
                                constituencies which have given us their confidence. In this labor
                                Indiana expects every gentleman to do his whole duty.
                            The time of the session is not ours; it belongs to the people. Time,
                                especially in this season of financial difficulty, is money. This
                                time of the people is their money. Let us be conscientiously and
                                rigidly economical in the use of it. Let every hour spent in this
                                hall be thoroughly devoted to the public service.
                            Lest I myself should in this respect be an offender, I will delay the
                                organization of the House no further, except again to thank you.
                        
                        
                            CLERKS AND DOORKEEPER.
                            On motion of Mr. HELLER, it was
                            Ordered, That the House proceed to the election of
                                Principal Clerk and Principal Assistant Clerk.
                            Mr. CALDWELL nominated Samuel W. Holmes, of Jackson.
                            Mr. GLASGOW nominated Cyrus T. Nixon, of Marion.
                            Mr. MILLER, of Yanderburg, nominated J. H. Thomas, of Yanderburg.
                            On the motion of his colleague, Mr, Harris, of Wayne, who was absent
                                at the moment of the general qualification, came forward and
                                received the oath at the hand of Judge Downey.
                            The vote for Principal Clerk was then taken and reported from the
                                Chair - the SPEAKER stating that Mr. Holmes received 56 votes, Mr.
                                Nixon 30 votes, Mr, Thomas 9 votes, and declaring the election of
                                Samuel W. Holmes as Principal Clerk of the House of
                                Representatives.
                            In the election of Principal Assistant Clerk-Mr. WATERMAN nominated
                                Thomas C. Mayes.
                            Mr. GLASGOW nominated Presley Smith.
                            Mr. MILLER, of Yanderburg, nominated John Howard.
                            The SPEAKER, reported the vote for Mr. Mayes 56 votes, Mr. Smith 32
                                votes, Mr. Howard 11 votes; declaring Thomas C. Mays duly elected
                                Principal Assistant Clerk of the House of Representatives.
                            On motion of Mr. COLLINS, it was
                            Ordered, That the House proceed to the election of
                                Doorkeeper.
                            Mr. GLASGOW nominated Wm. H. Buchanan, of Jefferson.
                            Mr. EDWARDS nominated Moses T. Lewman, of Putnam.
                            Mr. MILLER, of Yanderburg, nominated Henry S. Green.
                            The vote being taken -
                            The SPEAKER reported: For Mr. Loomen 56 votes; for Mr. Buchanan 34
                                votes; for Mr. Green 9 votes; and declared Moses  T. Lewman elected Doorkeeper of the
                                House of Representatives; and then, by the direction of the Chair,
                                these Clerks and Doorkeeper were sworn into office.
                            On motion of Mr HAVENS, it was
                            Ordered, That the Clerk inform the Senate, that the
                                House of Representatives has organized by the election of David
                                Turpie, Speaker; S. W. Holmes, Principal, and Thomas C.Mayes,
                                Principal Assistant Clerk, and Moses T. Lewman, Doorkeeper; and is
                                now prepared to proceed to legislative business.
                        
                        
                            RULES.
                            Mr. HELLER submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Rules of the last
                                            House of Representatives, be adopted for the government
                                            of this House, until otherwise agreed on.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. WYNN. Mr. Speaker, I think if the gentleman will examine into the
                                matter he will find, that there are no rules of the last House of
                                Representatives. That the rules of that body were adopted for the
                                Special Session of 1872. I move to amend so as to adopt the rules of
                                the Special Session.
                            Mr. HELLER, The same rules were used for the Regular Session, without
                                material change, and the same rules were adopted for the Regular
                                Session.
                            Mr. WYNN admitted his statement in part, but insisted on his
                                amendment.
                            The amendment was rejected; and then the resolution was adopted
                            Mr. WYNN submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That a special committee of
                                            five be appointed to prepare rules for the House of
                                            Representatives, and report the same on Monday next.
                                    
                                
                            
                            It was rejected.
                        
                        
                            TAYLOR VS. WATERMAN.
                            The SECRETARY OF STATE now presented to the Speaker the papers
                                received in his office in the case of the contest of Taylor against
                                Waterman for the place of Representative for the county of
                                DeKalb.
                            The SPEAKER having formally laid these papers before the House -
                            On motion ot Mr. DAVIS, (the House being without a committee to which
                                they should be referred,) the papers were laid on the table by
                                unanimous consent.
                            On motion of Mr. CRUMPACKER, it was
                            Ordered, That the daily meeting of this House shall
                                be at 9 o'clock, a. m., till otherwise ordered.
                            The SPEAKER announced the appointment of James Guthrie Lillie as one
                                of the pages for the floor.
                            On motion of Mr. DAVIS, the House took a recess till two o'clock, p.
                                m.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            TWO O'CLOCK P. M.
                            The SPEAKER resumed the Chair at 2 o'clock p. m.
                            On motion of Mr. HELLER it was -
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Secretary of State
                                            obtain from the State Librarian one hundred copies of
                                            the Rules of the last Session, and place one copy on the
                                            desk of each member.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion of Mr. CALDWELL, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the thanks of the House
                                            of Representatives are hereby tendered to the honorable
                                            A. C. Downey, for the service rendered by him, assisting
                                            in the organization of the House.
                                    
                                
                            

                            
                                SPECIFIC APPROPRIATIONS.
                                Mr. FULK submitted the following:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved by the House of
                                                  Representatives (the Senate concurring,) That
                                                there be appointed by the House and Senate a joint
                                                standing committee, consisting of three Senators and
                                                six Representatives to whom shall be referred all
                                                claims that should be allowed, in the Specific
                                                Appropriation Bill; and after such claims shall have
                                                been acted on, the Chairman thereof or some other
                                                member of said committee shall report their action
                                                to the House.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. CLARK was riot certain but the resolution would involve a
                                    change of the Rules. If so it should lie over.
                                The SPEAKER. The Chair is of opinion that it involves a change of
                                    the Rules. It will lie on the table under the Rules of the
                                    House. The gentleman can call it up any time after to-day.
                                Mr. Senator FRIEDLBY of Lawrence, (being announced at the door,)
                                    said he represented a committee to inform the House of
                                    Representatives that the Senate have organized.
                                On the motion of Mr. MARVIN, ot Boon, it was -
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That a committee of three
                                                on the part of the House of Representatives to act
                                                with a like committee on the part of the Senate, be
                                                appointed to inform the Governor that the General
                                                Assembly of 1875 is organized, and ready to receive
                                                any communication he may see proper to make.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Whereupon -
                                The SPEAKER appointed Messrs. Marvin of Boone, Fulk and Darnall
                                    for the committee on the part of the House.
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. WATERMAN introduced a bill [H. R. No. 1.] to repeal an act
                                    entitled, an act in relation to the organization of the two
                                    Houses of the General Assembly, prescribing the number of
                                    officers and employees of each House, and regulating their
                                    duties approved December 23, 1872.
                                
                                Mr. CRUMPACKER introduced a bill [H. R. 2] fixing the per diem
                                    and number of members of the General Assembly, and fixing the
                                    per diem of the officers and employees of the General Assembly.
                                    [Per diem four dollars a day, and five dollars mileage for every
                                    twenty-five miles.]
                                They were severally read and passed the first reading.
                            
                            
                                MILITARY USURPATION IN LOUISIANA.
                                Mr. HAVENS. Mr. Speaker, I have prepared the following joint
                                    resolution; and I desire to remark that I do not offer it
                                    without regard to the just remark of the Speaker on taking the
                                    Chair to-day.
                                He then submitted the joint resolution [H. R. No. 1] on the
                                    subject of the Military usurpation in the State of Louisiana,
                                    which was read by the Clerk. [It declares the breaking up of the
                                    General Assembly of that State by Military force, and resolves
                                    for a solemn protest against the wrongs perpetrated by the
                                    administration of the General Government against the sovereignty
                                    of the Southern States.]
                                Mr. FULK. If this resolution is adopted, as a matter of course it
                                    must be regarded as one of the most important acts of the
                                    session. In effect it proposes to decide upon the conduct of the
                                    President of the United States; for we know that the soldiers
                                    now in Louisiana are there by the order of the President. And,
                                    on the very day of organization here, to take the responsibility
                                    of deciding and dictating in such a matter, in my judgment it
                                    would be going further than we should go until we are further
                                    informed of the facts. It is likely that we have all heard these
                                    Louisiana rumors, and the highly colored newspaper accounts of
                                    them. They may also be greatly exaggerated; and it would be
                                    highly improper, it seems to me, therefore, upon such meager
                                    information as we have here, to declare either approbation or
                                    disapprobation of the act of the President of the United
                                    States.
                                The debate was continued by a member whose recognition was not
                                    heard, and Mr. Havens responded.
                                Mr. LANHAM moved to lay the joint resolution on the table.
                                Mr. DAVIS and Mr. LANHAM demanded the yeas and nays; and they
                                    were ordered and taken, resulting - yeas 37, nays 59, as
                                    follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Those voting in the affirmative are Messrs.
                                            
                                                Ames.
                                                Andersen.
                                                Bearss.
                                                Charters.
                                                Clark.
                                                Crumpacker.
                                                Dale.
                                                Favorite.
                                                Forkner.
                                                Glasgow.
                                                Harper.
                                                Harris, of Wayne.
                                                Heighway.
                                                Jackson.
                                                Kennedy, of Montg'y.
                                                Kennedy, of Morgan.
                                                Lanham.
                                                Lincoln.
                                                Miller, of Vanderburg,
                                                Morgan.
                                                McFadden.
                                                Pfaflin.
                                                Ratliff.
                                                Ragan.
                                                Reeder.
                                                Ribble.
                                                Shaffer.
                                                Shortridge.
                                                Sugart.
                                                Taylor, of Tipton.
                                                Thomas.
                                                Thompson, of Henry.
                                                Trusler.
                                                Twibell.
                                                Williams, of Lawrence
                                                Woody.
                                                Wynn.-37.
                                            
                                            Those voting in the negative are Messrs.
                                            
                                                Arnold.
                                                Barney.
                                                Bellows.
                                                Bence.
                                                Brown, of Jasper.
                                                Brown, of Rush.
                                                Burson.
                                                Caldwell.
                                                Cantley.
                                                Collins.
                                                Crane.
                                                Davidson.
                                                Davis.
                                                Edwards.
                                                Emerson.
                                                Evans.
                                                Gilbert.
                                                Gossman.
                                                Harris, of Madison.
                                                Havens.
                                                Haynes.
                                                Heller.
                                                Henderson.
                                                Hopkins.
                                                Horn.
                                                Johnston, of Dearborn.
                                                Johnson, of Carroll.
                                                Keightley.
                                                Kennedy, of Marion.
                                                Law.
                                                Leeper.
                                                Martin, of Franklin.
                                                Martin, of Wells.
                                                Marviri, of Fountain.
                                                Meginity.
                                                Miller, of Parke.
                                                Montgomery.
                                                McCord.
                                                McMichael.
                                                Nash.
                                                Osborn.
                                                Pate.
                                                Patterson.
                                                Piatt.
                                                Ranisey.
                                                Reddick.
                                                Reno.
                                                Romine.
                                                Roseberry.
                                                Shaw.
                                                Snyder.
                                                Taylor, of Daviess.
                                                Thompson, of Marion,
                                                Walt
                                                Washburn.
                                                Waterman.
                                                Willett.
                                                Williams, of Brown.
                                                Speaker - 59.
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                
                                So the joint resolution was not laid on the table, and it was
                                    then passed to the second reading.
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. WILLIAMS, of Brown introduced a bill [H. R. 3] to amend
                                    Sections 102, 107, 108, 125, 270, and repeal section 276 of the
                                    act for the assessment and collection of taxes, approved
                                    December 21, 1872.
                                Mr. TRUSLER introduced a bill [H. R. 4] fixing the per diem and
                                    mileage of members of the General Assembly, and declaring an
                                    emergency. [Per diem five dollars.]
                                Mr. WOODY introduced a bill [H. R. 5] to amend an act entitled an
                                    act to define what shall be the salary of the Governor - the
                                    manner of paying the same, and declaring an emergency, approved
                                    December 11, 1872. [It proposes $4,000.]
                                Mr. KENNEDY, of Morgan, introduced a bill [H. R. 6] to legalize
                                    the corporation of the town of Martinsville, in Morgan county,
                                    and to legalize all orders, ordinances, by-laws, levies and
                                    assessments of taxes, made, passed, and adopted, by the Board of
                                    Trustees of said town.
                                Mr. WYNN introduced a bill [H.R.7] fixing the per diem and
                                    mileage of members of the General Assembly, and repealing the
                                         act in relation
                                    thereto, approved December 19, 1872. [Five dollars per diem,
                                    etc.]
                                Mr. SHAW introduced a bill [H.R. 8] to regulate the sale of
                                    intoxicating liquors, to provide against the evils resulting
                                    from the sale thereof, to punish drunkenness and deceitful
                                    practices in obtaining liquor, to furnish remedies for damages
                                    resulting from its sale, and to provide penalties, and repealing
                                    all other laws on the subject.
                                Mr. HAVENS introduced a bill [H. R. 9] to regulate and license
                                    the sale of spiritous vinous, malt and other intoxicating
                                    liquors, to prohibit the adulteration of liquors, and repealing
                                    all former acts contravening the provisions of this act, and
                                    prescribing penalties in relation thereto.
                                Mr. TAYLOR introduced a bill [H. R. 10,] (title not reported)
                                    fixing the per diem of members of the General Assembly at five
                                    dollars, and the mileage at four dollars for each twenty-five
                                    miles.
                                Mr. OSBORN introduced a bill [H. B. 11,] (title not reported,)
                                    fixing the pay of the members of the General Assembly at five
                                    dollars per day and expenses necessarily incurred on the travel,
                                    going to the capitol and returning.
                                Mr. HARRIS of Madison, introduced a bill [H. R. 12,] to amend the
                                    first section of the act fixing the per diem and mileage of
                                    members of the General Assembly, and providing that they shall
                                    provide their own stationery. Approved Dec. 17, 1872. [Five
                                    dollars per day - three dollars for twenty-five miles.]
                                Mr. HARRIS introduced a bill [H. B. 13] to amend the 102 section
                                    of the act to provide for a uniform assessment of property and
                                    the collection and return of taxes thereon, approved December 4,
                                    1872.
                                Mr. WILLETT introduced a bill [H. R. 14,] fixing the per diem and
                                    mileage of members of the General Assembly, and providing that
                                    their stationery shall be furnished by the State.
                                Mr. MARTIN of Wells, introduced a bill [H. R. 15,] for an act
                                    fixing the salaries and allowance of members at the General
                                    Assembly.
                                Mr. MARTIN introduced a bill [H. R. 16,] fixing the salary of the
                                    Governor at six thousand dollars: and repealing all laws on the
                                    same subject, and fixing the time that it shall take effect.
                                Mr. WILLETT introduced a bill [H.R. 17,] to regulate the sale of
                                    intoxicating liquors, and to repeal an act to regulate the sale
                                    of intoxicating liquors, approved Feb. 1, 1873.
                                Mr. CLARK introduced a bill [H. R. 18] declaring drunkenness to
                                    be a misdemeanor, prescribing punishment therefor, and requiring
                                    persons guilty of intoxication to declare where they obtained
                                    the liquor by which they became intoxicated.
                                Mr. CRUMPACKER introduced a bill [H. B. 19,] to define what shall
                                    be the salary of the Governor, the manner of paying the same,
                                    and repealing all acts conflicting with the provisions of this
                                    act. [Salary five thousand dollars.]
                                They were severally read and passed to the second reading.
                                Mr. MARVIN of Boone, from the joint committee appointed to wait
                                    on the Governor, reported, that the Governor has signified his
                                    intention to deliver his biennial message to-morrow at 10
                                    o'clock a. m.
                                On motion of Mr. WATERMAN, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Doorkeeper be
                                                authorized to furnish such stationery, ink., etc.,
                                                as shall be needed by the clerks of the House.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion of Mr. KENNEDY of Marion, it was -
                                Ordered, That the Doorkeeper furnish another
                                    table for the use of the clerks.
                                The House then adjourned till to-morrow morning 9 o'clock.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    VOLUME FIFTEEN.
                    INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            FRIDAY, January 8, 1875.
                        
                        The Senate met at 10 o'clock, a. m., pursuant to adjournment. Lieutenant
                            Governor Sexton in the chair.
                        A message from the House of Representatives by the hand of Hon. S. W.
                            Holmes, Principal Secretary thereof, invited the Senate to seats in the
                            hall of the House during the delivery of the Governor's message Also,
                            announcing the passage by the House of Representatives of a resolution
                            for a joint committee to invite some clergyman to open that particular
                            sitting with prayer.
                        On motion by Mr. DAGGY, the Senate concurred in the resolution of the
                            House of Representatives, and -
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR makes this committee on the part of the Senate to
                            consist of Messrs. Boone and Oliver.
                        The reading of the Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings having
                            been commenced -
                        On motion by Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Scott, the further reading thereof was
                            dispensed with.
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR calling the attention of Senators to the statute,
                            chapter XXVII, page 38, section 1, of the laws of 1872, providing for
                            the appointment of a committee of five Senators to supervise and inspect
                            the journal, and announcing his desire to have that duty performed when
                            the journal was not read, appointed as said committee: Senators Daggy,
                            Johnston, of Parke, Boone, Humphreys and Cardwell.
                        
                            FEES AND SALARIES.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON, of Parke, submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the committee
                                                on fees and salaries (when appointed) be
                                            and are hereby instructed to report a bill to the Senate
                                            regulating and fixing the salary of Governor, Judges of
                                            the Supreme Court, Judges of the different Circuit,
                                            Criminal and Superior Courts of the State, together with
                                            the fees and salaries of all State, County and Township
                                            officers, including per diem and mileage of the members
                                            of the General Assembly.
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That all resolutions, motions
                                            and bills pertaining to the subject matter expressed in
                                            the foregoing resolutions, be referred to said
                                            committee.
                                    
                                
                            
                            It was adopted.
                        
                        
                            RETRENCHMENT AND REFORM.
                            Mr. BOONE submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That it is the judgment of
                                            the Senate that all the legislative and other public
                                            expenses of the State should be reduced to the lowest
                                            amount which is necessary to insure an efficient
                                            performance of the public service.
                                    
                                
                            
                            That the reckless expenditures of money for extravagant and
                                unnecessary legislative supplies, as well as the wasteful use
                                thereof are utterly condemned, and the practice of appointing,
                                retaining and paying incompetent or supernumary employees by
                                officers and committees, whatever be the motive, is a violation of
                                public duty not to be tolerated even under apparent sanction of law
                                or precedent, and therefore the proper committees of the Senate are
                                respectfully and urgently requested carefully to investigate all
                                claims, and to incorporate into the specific appropriation bill only
                                such allowances as are just and reasonable, and for which the State
                                has received value.
                            It was adopted.
                        
                        
                        
                            THE GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                            A message from the House of Representatives being announced by the
                                doorkeeper at 10:20 o'clock -
                            Representative DAVIS said: Mr. President: We are a committee
                                instructed by the House of Representatives to inform the Senate that
                                the House is now ready to receive the Senate in the hall of the
                                House of Representatives to hear the Governor's message.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Senators, you will please form in
                                procession, and we will go together to the hall of the House of
                                Representatives.
                            [The Governor's message will appear in the appendix.]
                            And so Senators retired. When they returned at 12 o'clock, m. -
                            The Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock, p. m.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the Chair at 2 o'clock, p. m.
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. LARUE introduced a bill [S. 13] for an act to repeal an act
                                    entitled "An act to authorize aid and construction to Railroads
                                    by counties and townships taking stock in and making donations
                                    to Railroad Companies," approved May 12, 1869; and saving
                                    proceedings commenced under said act, and declaring and
                                    emergency.
                                Mr. PEED introduced a bill [S. 14] for an act to prevent
                                    empiricism and to elevate the standard of the medical
                                    profession.
                                Mr. NEFF introduced a bill [S. 15] for an act to regulate, the
                                    sale of intoxicating liquors; to provide against drunkenness;
                                    prescribing penalties; to repeal all laws contravening the
                                    provisions of this act; and declaring an emergency.
                                Section 1 provides that the applicant shall procure a license
                                    from the Board of Commissioners of the county where he
                                    resides.
                                Section 2 declares that such person shall file in the office of
                                    the county Auditor not less than three weeks before the meeting
                                    of the Board, a petition signed by a majority of the
                                    householders and freeholders of any town, township or ward of a
                                    city where such liquor is to be sold; setting forth specifically
                                    that particular house, in the town, township, ward, etc. wherein
                                    the same is to be sold, whereupon the Auditor shall give notice
                                    in some daily or weekly newspaper, having a general circulation
                                    in such town, township or ward where said liquors are to be
                                    sold, and the said petition shall be heard at the next regular
                                    session of the County Commissioners.
                                Section 3 provides that such applicant shall make affidavit that
                                    such petition contains the signatures of the majority of the
                                    householders and freeholders of said town, township or ward,
                                    etc., where such is to be sold.
                                Section 4 declares that at the time of filing such application,
                                    the applicant shall; deposit with the Auditor of said county,
                                    the necessary sum to defray expenses of publication, filing and
                                    recording, etc., and issuing such permit.
                                Section 5 declares that before the issuing of such a permit, the
                                    applicant shall pay into the county Treasury the sum of five
                                    hundred dollars, for such a license for the term of one year,
                                    which sum shall be placed to the credit of the common school
                                    fund of the same county.
                                Section 6 provides that in the examination of the petition as to
                                    the genuineness of the signers, and all other matter pertaining
                                    thereto, such Commissioners may call witnesses.
                                Section 7 provides that the person desiring such license shall
                                    give bond with two good, freehold securities approved by the
                                    Commissioners in the sum of one thousand dollars that he will
                                    keep an orderly house.
                                Section 8 declares that it shall be unlawful for any person or
                                    agent to sell, barter, give away, buy for, or furnish to any
                                    minor, or to any person intoxicated, any intoxicating liquor -
                                    shall be fined in the sum of five dollars. Such minor, etc.
                                    shall be compelled to testify or be imprisoned until he
                                    does.
                                Section 9 declares that any minor who shall represent himself as
                                    over the age of twenty-one years for the purpose of procuring
                                    such liquor, upon conviction shall be deemed guilty of a
                                    misdemeanor, and shall be fined three dollars, and upon failure
                                    to pay, shall be imprisoned in the county jail till such fine is
                                    paid at the rate of one dollar per day.
                                Section 10 declares that any person found in a state of
                                    intoxication shall be fined the sum of five dollars.
                                Section 11 declares that no person shall sell, barter or give
                                    away intoxicating liquors on a Sunday or any election day, nor
                                    upon Christmas, Fourth of July or Thanksgiving day.
                                Section 12 declares that at all places where intoxicating liquors
                                    are sold without a license, obtained according to this act shall
                                    be closed as a common nuisance, and the keeper shall be fined
                                    fifty dollars and imprisoned in the county jail for the term of
                                    three months.
                                Section 13 provides that Circuit, Superior and Criminal Courts,
                                    Justices of the  Peace, and
                                    Mayors of cities shall have jurisdiction in all cases arising
                                    from violation of this act.
                                Section 14 provides that Common Councils of cities and Boards of
                                    Trustees shall have power to enact ordinances regulating the
                                    sale of intoxicating liquors.
                                Mr. BEARDSLEY introduced a hill [S. 16.] for an act fixing the
                                    compensation of certain officers therein named, [President of
                                    the Board of Trustees and Commissioners of benevolent
                                    institutions $500 a year: trustees, Deaf and Dumb, and Blind
                                    Asylum, and the commissioner of the Hospital for the Insane,
                                    $300. each; the directors of the State Prison North and the
                                    State Prison South, $300. each; commissioners of the House of
                                    Refuge, $800. each.]
                                Mr. BELL, by request, introduced a bill [S. 17.] for an act
                                    creating the 40th Judicial Circuit [The county of Hamilton]
                                    fixing the time of holding Courts therein, and also the time of
                                    holding Courts in the 24th Judicial Circuit [The county of
                                    Madison] and providing for the transfer of certain business from
                                    the 24th to the 40th Judicial Circuit, and providing for the
                                    appointment of a Judge and Prosecuting Attorney there in and
                                    declaring an emergency.
                                These bills were read the first time and severally passed to the
                                    second reading.
                                Mr. FRIEDLEY of Lawrence. As I am informed there is a pressing
                                    necessity for the passage of tins bill, I move for the
                                    suspension of the constitutional restriction that the bill may
                                    be read the second time now.
                                Mr. LARUE. I hope there will be no hasty legislation with regard
                                    to the organization of the courts. My own views and the views of
                                    some other members of the legal profession in this State are
                                    that we should leave the Circuit Courts as they now are, or
                                    nearly so, and entirely separate the civil criminal business in
                                    this State. We and have six criminal Judges, some of whom can do
                                    twice the business they are now doing, and 1 apprehend nine or
                                    ten judges, can do all the criminal business of the State. Any
                                    person who has practiced law for many years, knows that it is a
                                    very great advantage to both judges and litigants to separate
                                    the criminal and civil business: and that the criminal business
                                    seriously interferes with the civil business on account of the
                                    precedence given it by law. All I ask in regard to this matter
                                    is that we have no hasty legislation on this subject, and that
                                    we may see if we cannot together devise a better mode.
                                Mr. GOODING. I concur in the wish expressed by the Senator from
                                    Tippecanoe [Mr. LaRue] that there shall be no hasty legislation
                                    on this subject. I know in many parts of this State they need
                                    legislation, and by taking up separate bills we are apt to spoil
                                    any system that might be gotten up. I do not exactly agree in
                                    the proposition to separate the civil and criminal business of
                                    the courts. In my part of I the State they desire something in
                                    the nature of a Superior Court. I cannot conceive of any
                                    emergency for the passage of this | bill at the present time. I
                                    think it better to wait awhile, and consider the wants of all
                                    parts of the State, and let one bill comprise the whole
                                    subject.
                                Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Lawrence. I find on my table a paper signed by a
                                    number of the citizens of Hamilton county, in which some very
                                    strong reasons are assigned for an emergency. I do not desire
                                    the bill to pass this evening: I only desire the bill may be
                                    read the second time now, and referred to a committee with a
                                    view of acting in the future intelligently and understandingly
                                    on this bill. I have had conversations with some intelligent and
                                    distinguished citizens of Hamilton county during the forenoon,
                                    and they tell me that the necessity for passing this bill is
                                    urgent, I heartily unite with the Senator from Tippecanoe, [Mr.
                                    LaRue] and the Senator from Vanderburg, [Mr. Gooding,] in
                                    deprecating hasty legislation, but I beg them to bear in mind
                                    that we are not now asking the passage of this bill.
                                A provision in section 18, article IV of the Constitution, of the
                                    State, requiring the consent of two-thirds of the members
                                    elected to the Senate (to be ascertained by a vote of yeas and
                                    nays,) before any bill can be read twice on any one day; the
                                    yeas and nays were ordered, and being taken resulted - yeas 33,
                                    nays 12.
                                So, two-thirds of the Senate not voting therefore, the
                                    Constitutional restriction was not dispensed with, and the bill
                                    was passed to the second reading.
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. THOMPSON introduced a bill [S. 18] for an act supplementary
                                    to an act approved March 14, 1867, to provide for the
                                    incorporation of cities. [It provides for the incorporation of
                                    cities of over eighteen hundred inhabitants.]
                                Mr. GOODING introduced a bill [S. 19] for an act to authorize the
                                    United States of America to acquire title to land in the State
                                    of Indiana, by condemnation; prescribing the manner in which
                                    such condemnation shall be made, and declaring an emergency. [To
                                    meet an existing case in Evansville, for the erection of a
                                    building for post office and other public purposes.]
                                Mr. GIVAN introduced a bill [S. 20] for  an act prescribing that Justices
                                    of the Peace shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction in
                                    certain cases of misdemeanors. [All cases that are punishable by
                                    a fine not exceeding twenty-five dollars.]
                                Mr. HOUGH introduced a bill, [S 21] for an act to prevent the
                                    sale, gift or barter of deadly weapons or ammunition therefor to
                                    minors.
                                Mr. MAJOR introduced a bill [S. 22] for an act fixing the time of
                                    holding the Circuit Courts and the length of the terms thereof
                                    in the thirteenth Judicial Circuit of the State of Indiana, [the
                                    counties of Benton, Jasper, Newton and Pulaski.
                                Mr. LARUE introduced a bill [S, 23,] for an act to amend the
                                    first section of an act to regulate the sale of intoxicating
                                    liquors [the Baxter Bill] approved February 27, 1873, and
                                    declaring an emergency.
                                [It proposes to amend the first section of said act so it shall
                                    read: "It shall be unlawful for any person or persons by himself
                                    or agent to sell or barter any intoxicating liquors in any
                                    quantity less than a quart ac a time or to give away for any
                                    purpose of gain any intoxicating liquors until such person or
                                    persons shall have obtained a permit therfor from the Board of
                                    Commissioners of the County where he resides and where such
                                    liquors are to be sold as hereinafter provided."]
                                These bills were read the first time and severally passed to the
                                    second reading.
                            
                            
                                BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                                Mr. SLEETH submitted the following:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Auditor of State
                                                be requested to furnish the Senate as early as
                                                practicable with a detailed statement of the amount
                                                paid each year since 1860 on account of the BREVIER
                                                REPORTS, the number of copies printed, whether the
                                                same were printed on State paper, and if so the cost
                                                of the same for each year; the cost of binding the
                                                same if done at the expense of the State; amount
                                                paid for distribution, as well as any other expense
                                                to the State, either directly or indirectly on
                                                account of said BREVIER REPORTS.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                It was adopted.
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. THOMPSON introduced a bill [S. 24] for an act to provide for
                                    the mortgaging of the real estate of infants and persons of
                                    unsound mind by guardians under orders of the proper courts.
                                Mr. BEARDSLEY introduced a bill [S. 25] for an act to fix the
                                    time for holding the courts in the thirty-fourth judicial
                                    circuit. [The counties of Lagrange and Elkhart]
                                Mr. NEFF introduced a bill [S. 26] for an act to limit the number
                                    of Grand Juror [to six,] point out the mode of their election,
                                    defining their jurisdiction, and repealing all laws in conflict
                                    with this act.
                                These bills were read the first time and severally passed to the
                                    second reading.
                                The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. - Gentlemen of the Senate: I have the
                                    honor to lay before you a communication from. the Governor. [It
                                    designates SAMUEL R. DOWNEY, Esq., (his private Secretary,) as
                                    Executive Messenger.]
                                And then the Senate adjourned till Monday at 2 o'clock, p. m.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            FRIDAY, January 8, 1875.
                        
                        The House met at 9 o'clock, a. m.
                        The SPEAKER directed the reading of the journal of yesterday, and the
                            same having been read, corrected and approved -
                        The SPEAKER announced the appointment of Geo. S. Davis, as Postmaster of
                            the House; also, of Charles Keightley as page to the clerk,
                        
                            RESOLUTIONS AND ORDERS.
                            On motion of Mr. MARVIN, of Boonet it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Senate be notified
                                            to meet the House of Representatives in joint convention
                                            this morning at 10 o'clock, for the purpose of hearing
                                            the message of the Governor.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion of Mr. CHARTERS, it was
                            Ordered, That the Doorkeeper proceed at once to
                                prepare seats for the accommodation of the Senate.
                            On motion of Mr. HELLER, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Secretary of State
                                            furnish each member of the House of Representatives with
                                            one copy of the acts of the last General Assembly, the
                                            Brevier Reports and the House Journals for 1872 and
                                            1873.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion of Mr. HOPKINS, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Doorkeeper be
                                            instructed to proceed at once to the preparation of the
                                            necessary committee rooms for the use of the committees
                                            and clerks of this House.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion of Mr. DARNALL, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That we cheerfully indorse
                                            the spirit and sentiment of the inaugural address of the
                                            Speaker, especially that portion respecting questions of
                                            national politics, etc.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. EDWARDS introduced a bill [H. R. 20] to repeal certain sections
                                of an act entitled an act to provide for the general system of
                                common schools, the officers thereof, and their respective powers
                                and duties, and matters properly connected therewith; and
                                prescribing the fees of certain officers therein named; and for the
                                es-  tablishment and regulation
                                of township libraries; and repealing all laws inconsistant with this
                                act, approved March 6, 1865; and adding supplemented sections,
                                approved March 6, 1873. [It repeals sections 1,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,
                                11.]
                            Mr. WILLIAMS, of Brown and Bartholomew, submitted a preamble and
                                concurrent resolution which provides for the order of prayer at the
                                opening of the business of the joint convention of the two Housed
                                this day, which was adopted on the part of the House of
                                Representatives.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            Mr. FORKNER introduced a bill [H. R. 21] to authorize the Judge of
                                any Circuit to hold Court for the Judge of another Circuit, etc.,
                                and declaring an emergency.
                            The SPEAKER now took up the call of the roll of Counties and
                                Representative Districts, for the introduction of bills and
                                resolutions, as required by the rules of the House of
                                Representatives.
                            Mr. MARTIN, of Adams and Wells, submitted an order (which was
                                adopted) tendering the sincere thanks of the members of the House of
                                Representatives to the Hon. W. W. Curry, Secretary of State, for his
                                prompt, business like and gentlemanly manner in the organization of
                                this body.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS, of Bartholomew and Brown, introduced a bill [H. R. 22]
                                to amend the fees and salaries act of March 8, 1873 [In sections 4,
                                5, 6, etc.]
                            Mr. CANTLEY introduced a bill [H.R.34] making it the duty of the
                                county Commissioners of the various counties, to procure for their
                                respective counties, certain certified copies of records effecting
                                land titles from the land officers of the United States, the office
                                of the Secretary of State, and the office of the Commissioners of
                                the Wabash and Erie Canal, to be kept for examination as other
                                records.
                            Mr. WATERMAN submitted an order instructing the Doorkeeper to make no
                                permanent arrangement for stationery for the use of the clerks of
                                this House till further orders. He said: The object is to keep the
                                control of the expenses for stationery with the House. It now rests
                                with the Doorkeeper. I think we had better keep it under our own
                                control.
                            Mr. HELLER showed by the act of the regular session of the
                                Legislature of 1873, that the law requires such necessary books,
                                stationery, etc., to be furnished by the State officers, and that it
                                also repeals the "stationery" section of the per diem bill of the
                                special session of 1872.
                            Mr. WYNN cautious about misunderstanding here, said: I do not think
                                that the law should be construed so that officers and members here
                                may have stationery which they may take away from the building.
                            Mr. WATERMAN now asked and obtained leave to withdraw the
                                resolution.
                            Mr. WATERMAN introduced a bill [H. R. 24] to provide for collecting
                                damages from owners of sheepkilling dogs, and providing for
                                arbitrations.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS of Brown and Bartholomew, from the House portion of the
                                joint committee on the chaplain, reported that they had not been
                                able to meet the committee on the part of the Senate, and asked and
                                obtained leave to act independently of that portion of the
                                committee.
                            Mr. FORKNER introduced a bill [H. R. 25] defining certain
                                misdemeanors, and prescribing punishment therefor. [Fine of $50 and
                                ten days imprisonment for drunkenness, and unlawful selling of
                                liquor.]
                            Also, the bill [H. R. 26] in relation to, and prescribing some of the
                                liabilities of the clerks of the several courts of this State. [To
                                receive funds paid into Court under the order of the Judge - the
                                County Commissioners to determine the amount of the Clerk's bond on
                                account of this provision.]
                            Mr. WOODY introduced a bill [H. R. 27] amending an act entitled am
                                cat to fix the per diem of members of the General Assembly. [Per
                                diem five dollars, and 20 cents per mile mileage.]
                            Mr. SHAFFER introduced bill [H. R. 28.] compelling parents and
                                guardians to educate their children and wards.[For a period of at
                                least 12 weeks in each year.]
                            The foregoing bills were severally read the first time and passed to
                                the second reading.
                        
                        
                            CHAPLAIN SERVICE.
                            Mr. FULK submitted a resolution, for an order, that the Speaker
                                invite the Minister s of the several churches of the city to meet
                                with the House each morning of the session and participate in the
                                opening devotions.
                            Mr. HELLER Does not the resolution mean, that all the ministers of
                                the city shall take part every morning?
                            Mr. FULK. The Speaker is to designate the Minister.
                            On motion of Mr. HORN, the resolution was laid on the table.
                        
                        
                            JOINT CONVENTION - GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                            On motion of Mr. DAVIS, it was ordered that a Special Committee of
                                three inform the Senate of the readiness of the House to receive
                                that body under the Special order of  yesterday - to hear the Governor's
                                biennial Message.
                            Whereupon -
                            The SPEAKER appointed Messrs. Davis, Darnell and McMichael - but it
                                appearing that the latter is not present Mr. Gilbert was appointed
                                in his place; and said Committee reported by the presence of the
                                body of the Senate, who were seated on the right, the Lieutenant
                                Governor presiding on the right of the Speaker.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Gentlemen of the Convention, we have
                                assembled here this morning to hear the message of the Governor of
                                the State; but preliminary to that object, it has been ordered, that
                                the session shall be opened with prayer; and for this purpose Elder
                                Black is present.
                            Elder W. F. Black, Pastor of the Central Christian Church, and the
                                Convention rose for the prayer.
                            On motion of Mr. Representative DAVIS a Special Committee consisting
                                of Mr. Davis and Mr. Senator Gooding was named by the LIEUTENANT
                                GOVERNOR, to wait on His Excellency Governor Hendricks, and inform
                                him that the Convention is ready to hear his message.
                            Mr. Representative DAVIS for said Committee reported the presence of
                                the Governor.
                            Where upon -
                            Governor HENDRICKS read his message, standing at the Speaker's
                                table.
                            [It will be given in the Appendix.]
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR, The purpose for which this Joint Convention
                                was called being attained, I declared it adjourned without day.
                            And, accordingly, the Joint Convention was adjourned, and the body of
                                the Senate and the crowd of citizens retired.
                            On motion of Mr. DAVIS, the House then took a recess till 2 o'clock.
                                P.M.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The SPEAKER resumed the Chair at 2 o'clock P. M. and announced the
                                order of the consideration of the Governor's Message - the rules
                                requiring his recommendations to be considered in Committee
                                    of the Whole House.
                            
                                THE GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                On the motion of Mr. WOODY, the House resolved into
                                        Committee of the Whole Mr. MARVIN of
                                    Brown, in the Chair and took up the subjects of special
                                    recommendation in the message.
                                On motion of Mr. HELLER, it was -
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That that portion of the Governor's Message
                                                which relates to the State Prisons be referred to
                                                the Committee on the State
                                                  Prisons.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion of WATERMAN, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That so much of the recommendations in the
                                                Message as relates to Federal Relations be referred
                                                to the Committee on Federal
                                                  Relations; that so much as relates to
                                                Finance and Taxation be referred to the
                                                  Committee on Ways and Means;
                                                that so much as relates to the Judiciary and
                                                Judicial Affairs of the Senate be referred to the
                                                  Committee on Organization of Courts of
                                                  Justice; that so much as relates to
                                                Domestic Affairs be referred to the
                                                  Committee on Rights and Privileges of the
                                                  Inhabitants of the State.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion of Mr. DARNALL, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the portion of the Message that
                                                relates to Common Schools and Education be referred
                                                to the Committee on
                                                Education.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion of Mr. CLARK, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, that so much of the Message as relates to
                                                Temperance be referred to the Committee on
                                                  Temperance.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr COLLINS submitted a resolution for an order to print the
                                    Governor's Message, for the use of the House.
                                The CHAIRMAN. The resolution is out of order. It is not competent
                                    for the Committee to make an order of the House.
                                On motion of Mr. McMICHAEL, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That so much of the
                                                message as referred to the question of fees and
                                                salaries be referred to the Committee on Fees and
                                                Salaries.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion of Mr. DARNALL, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That so much of the
                                                message as refers to Benevolent Institutions of the
                                                State be referred to the Committee on
                                                  Benevolent Institutions.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion of Mr. WATERMAN, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That so much of the
                                                Message as relates to the Railroad Interests be
                                                referred to the Committee on
                                                  Railroads; that so much as relates to
                                                Legislative Expenses be referred to the
                                                  Committee on Fees and Salaries;
                                                that so much as relates to the Purdue University, be
                                                referred to the Committee on
                                                  Agriculture; that so much as relates to
                                                Military Affairs and the Soldiers' Home, be referred
                                                to the committee on Military
                                                  Affairs; that so much as relates to the
                                                State Prisons be referred to the committee
                                                  on State Prisons; that so much as
                                                relates to the Centennial Exposition be referred to
                                                the Committee on Rights and and
                                                  Privileges.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion of Mr. RAGAN it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That so much of the
                                                message as refers to Agriculture and Horticulture be
                                                referred to the Committee on
                                                  Agriculture.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion of Mr. GOSSMAN, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That so much of the
                                                message as relates to the swamp lands of the State
                                                be referred to the Committee on Swamp
                                                  Lands.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion of Mr. ANDERSON, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That so much of the
                                                message  as
                                                relates to the Reformatory Institutions of the
                                                State, be referred to the Committee on
                                                  Reformatory Institutions.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion of Mr. CLARK, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That so much of the
                                                message as relates to Canals, be referred to the
                                                  Committee on Canals.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion of Mr. GOSSMAN, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That so much of the
                                                message as relates to county and township business
                                                be referred to the Committee on County and
                                                  Township Business.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                On motion of Mr. JOHNSON, of Carroll, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That so much of the
                                                message as relates to public printing be referred to
                                                the Committee on Printing.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                And then on motion of Mr. WATERMAN, the Committee rose, and
                                    subsequently the CHAIRMAN reported the foregoing resolutions to
                                    the House, recommending their adoption.
                                And then on motion of Mr. DARNALL, the several resolutions
                                    reported from the Committee of the Whole,
                                    were adopted without a division.
                                On motion of Mr. DAVIS, the committee of the
                                        Whole was discharged from the further
                                    consideration of the Governor's Message.
                                The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the
                                    Governor announcing the appointment of SAMUEL R. DOWNEY, Esq.,
                                    his Private Secretary, as bearer of Executive messages to the
                                    House of Representatives.
                                Mr. CALDWELL submitted the following:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That five hundred copies
                                                of the Governor's Message just read to the General
                                                Assembly be printed, and that each member of the
                                                House be furnished with ten copies; and that one
                                                thousand five hundred copies of that number be
                                                printed in the German language.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. GOSSMAN, of Dubois, considered that one thousand five hundred
                                    copies in German, would not be sufficient, and proposed to amend
                                    by inserting two thousand five hundred copies in German.
                                Mr. HAVENS. Twenty-five hundred in English, and the same number
                                    in German would be out of proportion to the two classes of
                                    citizens. The original resolution for one thousand five hundred
                                    copies in German out of the order for five thousand would be a
                                    more just proportion.
                                Mr. TAYLOR, of Tipton, was of the ame opinion, and opposed the
                                    amendment.
                                Mr. CALDWELL also considered the original resolution nearer the
                                    correct thing ban it would be with the proposed amendment. At
                                    least five thousand copies of so important a paper should be
                                    printed, and one thousand five hundred of these in German would
                                    be a large proportion; it would be a very fair and liberal
                                    portion for the German population.
                                Mr. GOSSMAN. My amendment is for the two thousand five hundred
                                    copies in German, additional to the five thousand copies in
                                    English.
                                Mr. WYNN. I propose as an amendment to the amendment that there
                                    be printed two thousand copies in English and one thousand in
                                    German. He reminded the House that the message would be printed
                                    in the newspapers, and generally read through that
                                    circulation.
                                Mr. BURS ON moved ineffectually to lay the amendment to the
                                    amendment on the table; and the question recurred on its
                                    adoption.
                                Mr. DAVIS. The proposition is to reduce the number from five
                                    thousand to three thousand. It appears to me that, in view of
                                    the importance of the message - in view of the fact that it is a
                                    very full and complete review of our public affairs - it appears
                                    to me that five thousand copies is not out of the way. It is a
                                    fact also, that a great many people will read the message, if
                                    they receive it in a pamphlet, who would not read it in a
                                    newspaper; and there are many who are not likely to receive it
                                    in any other way. I am willing to take the original
                                    proposition.
                                Mr. TRUSLER. The amendment to the amendment will furnish each
                                    member with thirty copies and that is sufficient. The
                                    Legislature should economize in this as in other things.
                                Mr. MARVIN, of Boone. To show a proper respect for the Governor -
                                    that respect which is shown to all Governors five thousand is
                                    little enough. The cost can be but little more than for three
                                    thousand. I am opposed to the amendment, through distinctly in
                                    favor of retrenchment. While you have the types set up for three
                                    thousand copies, you might as well print five thousand.
                                Mr. GOSSMAN asked and obtained leave to withdraw his
                                    amendment.
                                Mr. WYNN'S amendment was then rejected; and the original
                                    resolution was adopted.
                                On motion of Mr. McMICHAEL it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the thanks of the
                                                House are tendered to Elder W. F. Black for his
                                                attendance and service this morning under the order
                                                for opening the business of the Joint Convention
                                                with prayer.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                The House (on motion for an order to  that effect,) now directed the
                                    Speaker to return to the call of the counties for bills and
                                    resolutions.
                                Mr. SHAFFER introduced a bill [H. R. 29] to authorize
                                    commissioners to construct roads on petition of a majority of
                                    the resident land owners on the line of road, and to repeal all
                                    laws on the subject of gravel roads, etc.
                                Mr. KENNEDY of Montgomery, introduced a bill [H. R. 30] for an
                                    act for the commencement and prosecution of criminal actions by
                                    information, and declaring an emergency.
                                Mr. PATE introduced a bill [H. R. 31] creating the 36th Judicial
                                    Circuit of the State, fixing the time for holding courts
                                    therein, and providing for the appointment of a Judge thereof.
                                    [Switzerland and Ohio counties to constitute said circuit.]
                                Mr. WALZ introduced a bill [H. R. 32] to amend an act entitled an
                                    act to provide for the election and qualification of Justices of
                                    the Peace and defining their powers and duties, approved June 9,
                                    1852. [To specify cases in which suits may be brought out of the
                                    township.]
                                He also introduced a bill [H. R. 33] for an act to amend section
                                    two of the act to provide a general system of Common Schools,
                                    etc., approved March 6, 1865.
                                Mr. BURSON introduced a bill [H. R. 34] for an act defining
                                    certain misdemeanors and prescribing punishment therefor.
                                    [Unlawful selling of liquor.]Mr. HENDERSON introduced a bill [H.
                                    R. 35] for an act denning who may be entitled to practice
                                    Medicine and Surgery. [A graduate of good character.]
                                Mr. TAYLOR, of Tipton, introduced a bill [H. R. 36] creating the
                                    40th Judicial Circuit, fixing the time of holding Courts
                                    therein, and also in the 24th Circuit, and providing for the
                                    transfer of business from the 24th to the 40th Circuit.
                                    [Hamilton county the 40th Circuit.]
                                Mr. COLLINS introduced a bill [H R. 37] for an act to regulate
                                    the license and sale of intoxicating liquors, etc.
                                Mr. MARTIN of Wells, introduced a bill [H. R. 38] for an act to
                                    raise revenue for State purposes for the year 1875 and 1876 and
                                    declaring an emergency. [A tax of five cents on the $100, and 50
                                    cents on the poll, etc.
                                Mr. FAVORITE introduced a bill [H. R. 39] for an act to amend
                                    section one of the Criminal Practice act of June 17, 1852.
                                    [Declaring competent witnesses.]
                                On motion of Mr, HELLER it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Doorkeeper be directed to procure
                                                for the Committees rooms already furnished, that the
                                                usual expense for furniture may be avoided.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. TAYLOR of Daviess introduced a bill, [H. R. 40] for an act to
                                    regulate Criminal Practice, before Justices of the peace, and to
                                    empower them to tax costs against the complaining witness in
                                    certain cases. [Where the complaint is unreasonable or
                                    malicious.]
                                Mr. CALDWELL introduced a bill [H. R. 41,] for an act to provide
                                    for the trial of causes in which the Judge is interested, by the
                                    appointment of an Attorney, in cases where change of venue has
                                    been taken. [Governor to appoint Judge.]
                                Mr. WILLIAMS of Brown introduced a bill [H. R. 42,] for an act to
                                    amend section five of an act supplemental and amendatory to the
                                    act for the uniform assesment and collection of taxes approved
                                    Dec. 21, 1871, and March 8,1873.
                                Mr. WATERMAN introduced a bill [H. R. 43,] (title not reported) -
                                    Township Trustees to discharge the duties of County Assessors -
                                    to abolish the office of County Assessor.
                                The foregoing bills were severally passed to the second
                                    reading.
                            
                            
                                CHAPLAIN SERVICE.
                                Mr, FULK submitted the following:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the session time of the House, not
                                                exceeding 5 minutes each morning, be devoted to
                                                devotional exercises, and that the Young Men's
                                                Christian Association of this city be requested to
                                                make arrangements with clergymen for one of them to
                                                be present to officiate; and if that fail, the
                                                Speaker shall appoint some member of the House, who
                                                is also a minister, to officiate.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. DAVIS proposed a substitute - that the Speaker lead in
                                    devotional exercises.
                                The resolution was rejected.
                            
                            
                                ADJOURNMENT TILL MONDAY.
                                Mr. HELLER moved that the House do now adjourn till Monday two
                                    o'clock P. M., stating that the Clerks are behind with the
                                    writing, and the Senate has adjourned over till that time.
                                The motion was rejected.
                                Mr. BURSON moved that, when the House adjourns, it shall be till
                                    to-morrow morning ten o'clock.
                                Mr. RAGAN proposed to amend the motion by saying, till nine
                                    o'clock to-night.
                                Mr. BURSON accepted the amendment.
                                Mr. DAYIS. Mr. Speaker, We shall have to adjourn over, so as to
                                    give the Speaker time to form the committees time and
                                    opportunity to perform really the most important duty he will
                                    have to perform during the session.
                                On motion of Mr. SHAFFER, the vote rejecting Mr. Heller's motion
                                    to adjourn till Monday two o'clock p. M. was reconsidered; and,
                                    the question recurring on the original motion, it was
                                    adopted.
                                So the House adjourned till Monday two o'clock P. M.
                            
                        
                    

                
                
                
                    THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    VOLUME FIFTEEN.
                    INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            MONDAX, January 11, 1875.
                        
                        The Senate met at 2 o'clock p. m., pursuant to adjournment - Lieutenant
                            Governor SEXTON in the Chair.
                        The Secretary's minutes of Friday's proceedings were read and
                            approved.
                        
                            LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
                            Mr. PEED asked and obtained leave of absence for the Senator from St.
                                Joseph, [Mr. Henderson,] for one week on account of sickness.
                        
                        
                            THE STANDING COMMITTEES.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I would like to say to Senators now, that it
                                has been customary on this day's session of the Senate to announce
                                the standing committees. I have been absent two days on that duty
                                and on my return find upon my table a number of communications from
                                various persons on that subject. If I know myself I intend to do
                                what is the SQUARE THING between Senators of all parties, and for
                                that reason I will not announce the committees till to-morrow
                                morning.
                        
                        
                            LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
                            Mr. STOCKSLAGER asked and obtained leave of absence for Mr. Smith
                                till to-morrow at 2 o'clock p. m.
                        
                        
                            DOORKEEPER - EMPLOYEES.
                            Mr. FRIEDLEY of Scott. Mr. President: Dr. Menifee, the Doorkeeper of
                                the Senate is present and ready to take the oath of office.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR having directed the Doorkeeper to come
                                forward, Dr. Menifee stood in front of the President's chair and was
                                duly sworn into office by the President of the Senate.
                            Mr. FRIEDLEY of Scott, submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That if any employee of this House shall become
                                            intoxicated he shall be deemed unworthy of the position
                                            he filled, and he shall be dismissed by his employer and
                                            his place filled by a sober man.
                                    
                                
                            
                            It was adopted nem con.
                        
                        
                            SOLDIERS OF THE MEXICAN WAR.
                            Mr. THOMPSON presenting a petition therefor from a committee
                                appointed at a meeting of soldiers of the Mexican war, held at the
                                city of Indianapolis, on the 7th day of this month, introduced a
                                Joint Resolution, [S. 1] as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Be it resolved by the General Assembly of the State of
                                            Indiana, That our Senators in Congress be instructed,
                                            and our Representatives in Congress be requested to use
                                            all their influence to secure the passage of a law,
                                            granting without favor or discrimination to those who
                                            served in the Mexican War for a period of sixty days or
                                            more, and were honorably discharged, the small sum of
                                            eight dollars per month during their natural lives.
                                    
                                
                            
                            It was read the first time and passed to the second reading.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            Mr. GIVAN introduced bill [S. 27] for an act to regulate and license
                                the sale of intoxicating liquors, and to provide against the evils
                                resulting from the sale thereof; to prohibit the adulteration of
                                liquors and providing that it shall be unlawful for any person to
                                furnish any minor or person intoxicated or in the habit of getting
                                intoxicated, any intoxicating liquors, or for any person under the
                                age of twenty-one years to purchase any intoxicating liquors, or for
                                any person to purchase any intoxicating liquors on Sunday or on the
                                day of any State, county or township municipal election, in
                                township, town or city where said election may be held, to be drank
                                as a beverage, or for  any
                                person to get intoxicated and be found intoxicated in any public
                                place, and prescribing penalties for the violation of said act, and
                                repealing all laws coming in conflict with any of the provisions of
                                this act, and declaring an emergency.
                            [It provides for a License Law - that any person desiring to sell in
                                a town of over forty thousand inhabitants shall pay a fee of one
                                hundred dollars; - between twenty and forty thousand, seventy-five
                                dollars; - townships between three and twenty thousand, fifty
                                dollars; - townships of three thousand and under, twenty-five
                                dollars.
                            It declares it to be unlawful for any person to become intoxicated;
                                or for any minor to purchase any intoxicating liquors to be drank by
                                said minor; or for any person to adulterate or sell any adulterated
                                intoxicating liquors.]
                            Mr. SLATER introduced a bill [S. 28,] for an act to amend section 58
                                of the general city incorporation act, approved March 7, 1873. [It
                                provides that no more than five acres of farm land lying within the
                                limits of any incorporated town or city shall be taxed for municipal
                                purposes.]
                            Mr. RHODES introduced a bill [S. 29] for an act abolishing grand
                                juries, and authorizing all criminal proceedings to be instituted by
                                affidavit; compelling the attendance of witnesses and repealing all
                                laws in conflict with this act.
                            Mr. SARNIGHAUSEN introduced a bill S. 30.] for an act creating a
                                Department of Statistics, and prescribing rules and regulations for
                                the government of the same [in the Secretary of State's office.]
                            Mr. BEARDSLEY introduced a bill [S. 31] for an act for the protection
                                of wild game, and fixing the time in which the same may be killed,
                                and declaring the penalty for the violation of this act, repealing
                                laws conflicting herewith, and declaring an emergency.
                            Section 1 declares that it shall be unlawful to kill in any manner,
                                any wild buck, or fawn, wild turkey, ruffed grouse, (commonly called
                                pheasant) and quail, between the first day of January and the first
                                day of October of every year, or any pinnated grouse (commonly
                                called prairie chicken) between the first day of February and the
                                fifteenth day of August of any year, or any wild goose, brant,
                                mallard, woodduck, red-head, blue or green winged teal or other wild
                                water fowl, snipe or plover, between the fifteenth day of April and
                                the first day of September of each year, or any woodcock between the
                                first day of February and the first day of July of each year.
                            Section 2 fixes the penalty for violations of this act.
                            Section 3 declares that it shall be unlawful for any person to net or
                                trap, at any time, any of the animals or birds or fowls mentioned in
                                section 1 of this act.
                            Section 4 declares that it shall be unlawful to purchase or sell, or
                                offer for sale, any of the animals, birds or fowls mentioned in
                                section 1, of this act, during the time when the killing of the same
                                is made unlawful by this act.
                            Mr. WINTERBOTHAM introduced a bill [S. 32] for an act to limit the
                                appointment to office in the Punitive, Reformatory, and Benevolent
                                Institutions of the State.
                            Mr. DYKEMAN introduced a bill [S. 33] for an act appropriating
                                $125,000 to defray the expenses of the 49th General Assembly of the
                                State of Indiana.
                            Mr. DYKEMAN introduced a bill [S. 34] for an act relating to
                                attorneys' fees. [It proposes to abolish all clauses in commercial
                                papers for the payment of attorneys' fees.]
                            Mr. SLATER made an ineffectual motion for a dispensation of the
                                Constitutional restriction, that this bill might be passed to the
                                second reading to-day.
                            Mr. DYKEMAN introduced a bill [S. 35] for an act repealing an act
                                entitled "An act relating to interests on judgments," approved
                                February 5, 1873.
                            Mr. HOWARD introduced a bill [S. 36] for an act declaring illegal and
                                void agreements to pay attorney's fees contained in any bill of
                                exchange, acceptance, draft, promissory notes or other written
                                evidence of indebtedness.
                            Mr. PEED introduced a bill [S. 37] for an act providing for the
                                publication of official matter in German newspapers.
                            Mr. STOCKSLAGER introduced a bill [S. 38] for an act to repeal
                                sections one, two, three, four and five, of "An act supplemental to
                                an act to provide for uniform assessment of property and for the
                                collection and return of taxes thereon," approved December 21, 1872;
                                approved March 8, 1873.
                            Mr. BEARSS introduced a bill [S. 39] for an act repealing the first,
                                second and third sections of "An act authorizing the assessments of
                                all the lands within one and one-half miles on either side, or with
                                or within one and one-half miles of the terminus of any plank,
                                macadamized or gravel road, organized under and persuant to act of
                                the General Assembly of the State of Indiana entitled "An act
                                authorizing the construction of plank, macadamized or gravel roads,"
                                approved May 12, 1852, when the subscription to  such road amounts to, at least, $800
                                per mile, and is not sufficient for the completion of the same, and
                                the collection of such assessments, provided, the lands are situated
                                within the county, in which such road is located," approved March
                                11, 1867, and all other laws authorizing the assessment of any taxes
                                or assessment for the construction of said roads, and declaring an
                                emergency.
                            The bills were read the first time, and severally passed to the
                                second reading.
                        
                        
                            PAY OF MEMBERS.
                            Mr. DYKEMAN moved that the constitutional restriction be dispensed
                                with so that his bill [S. 33] for an act to defray the Expenses of
                                the General Assembly may be advanced to its final reading.
                            A constitutional provision requiring the yeas and nays, they were
                                ordered, and being taken resulted - yeas 42, nays 4.
                            So the motion was agreed to, and the bill [S. 33] was read the second
                                time.
                            Mr. SARINGHAUSEN moved that the bill be considered as engrossed, read
                                the third time, now, and put upon its passage.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR ordered the Secretary to call the roll.
                            Mr. GIVAN. Will not one vote to suspend the constitutional rule,
                                answer for both readings?
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. That has been the practice in the other end
                                of the capitol, but for my own part, I do not believe it is in
                                compliance with the constitutional requirement. I think the
                                constitutional restriction should be suspended by vote of yeas and
                                nays every time a bill is read more than once on the same day. I
                                know the contrary has been the practice in the other end of the
                                capitol, but it is condemned by the best authorities.
                            Mr. SLATER. Even if that was the rule, it would not apply in this
                                case, for the motion did not contemplate two readings.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The way I put it, it did, but it requires
                                just as much of a suspension of the constitutional rule now to read
                                it the third time as it did to read it the second time. Call the
                                roll.
                            The notion [Mr. Sarnighausen's] was agreed to - yeas, 45, nays,
                                2.
                            So the constitutional restriction was again dispensed with, the bill
                                [S. 33] for an act appropriating $125,000 to defray the expenses of
                                the forty-ninth General Assembly of the State of Indiana, was read
                                the third time, and finally passed the Senate by yeas, 45, nays,
                                1.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            Mr. LARUE introduced a bill [S. 40] for an act to enable employees of
                                railroad companies to collect compensation for labor performed, and
                                to make the stockholders of railroad companies liable for such
                                labor, and to enable stockholders to enforce contribution against
                                other stockholders, and declaring an emergency.
                            Mr. NEFF introduced a bill [S. 41] for an act to limit the number of
                                Justices of the Peace, in each township, prescribing their
                                jurisdiction, requiring them to use a seal, and repealing all laws
                                in conflict with this act.
                            [It provides for one Justice of the Peace for each township, one in
                                addition for each incorporated town, and two in addition for each
                                incorporated city, their jurisdiction to be co-extensive with the
                                county.]
                            Mr. PEED introduced a joint resolution [S. 2] instructing our
                                Senators, and requesting our Representatives in Congress to use all
                                proper means to secure an appropriation of money from the general
                                Government for the improvement of the east fork of White river,
                                between the mouth of said river, and the point where the New Albany
                                and Saleni railroad crosses said river.
                            Mr. HUMPHREYS introduced a bill [S. 42] for an act to provide for the
                                redemption of personal property sold for taxes. [Redemption may be
                                made in thirty days by paying ten per cent, penalty.]
                            Mr. THOMPSON introduced a bill [S. 43] for an act to amend section
                                647 [Mechanic Lein] of the general practice act, approved June 18,
                                1852.
                            Mr. HUMPHREYS introduced a bill [S. 44] for an act to declare null
                                and void parts of certain contracts, [the clause in any obligation
                                for the payment of money or delivery of property for attorney's
                                fees.]
                            Mr. BELL introduced a bill [S. 45] for an act in relation to the
                                appointment of receivers, and to authorize appeals in certain cases.
                                Mr. BOONE introduced a bill [S. 46] to amend the eighth section of
                                an act concerning real property, and the alienation thereof approved
                                May 6, 1862.
                            [This amendment will subject the moiety of the husband to his
                                separate debts, and that of the wife to her separate debts in the
                                manner as estates in common. In all other respects a conveyance to
                                husband and wife will be construed to create estates in common, and
                                not in joint tenancy.]
                            Mr. BOONE introduced a bill [S. 47] for an act to amend sections 3 to
                                18 inclusive of the fee and salary act, approved March 8, 1873. [It
                                proposes to reduce the fees of the Supreme Court Clerk, the
                                    the Secretary of State, County Clerks, Treasurers,
                                Auditors, Sheriffs, Surveyors, 
                                Prosecuting Attorneys, and for legal advertising.]
                            Mr. BUNYAN introduced a bill [S. 48] for an act concerning the
                                election and organization of Boards of School Trustees and to repeal
                                all laws in conflict there with, and declaring an emergency. [The
                                Common Council of cities and the Boards of Trustees of incorporated
                                towns to elect.]
                            Mr. MAXWELL introduced a bill [S. 49] for an act requiring officers
                                to account for interest. [Every public officer having the custody of
                                any public moneys.]
                            Mr. HOWARD introduced a bill [S. 50] for an act to provide for the
                                incorporation of any public or private cemetery already laid out and
                                recorded, where any of the lots therein are occupied for the burial
                                of the dead, to provide for its maintenance and improvement, and
                                additions thereto, the collections of assessments made thereon and
                                the election of officers for its government.
                            Mr. BOWMAN introduced a bill [S. 51] for an act to repeal section two
                                of the common school law.
                            [The bill proposes to repeal the act for appointment of County
                                Superintendent and thereby abolish the office.]
                            Mr. GROVE introduced a bill [S. 52] for an act to amend the fourth
                                and ninth sections of an act for the incorporation of Building and
                                Loan Fund and Saving Associations, approved March 5,1857, and to
                                legalize certain contracts made by such Associations, and declaring
                                an emergency
                            These bills were read the first time and severally passed to the
                                second reading.
                        
                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
                            Announced the names of the members on the part of the House of
                                Representatives of the Joint Standing Committees.
                        
                        
                            LEAVE OP ABSENCE.
                            Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Scott, asked and obtained indefinite leave of
                                absence for Mr. Roe, on account of sickness.
                        
                        
                            PAPERS, BREVIER REPORTS, ETC.
                            Mr. DAGGY submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Postmaster of the
                                            Senate be requested to confer with the publishers of the
                                            daily Journal and Sentinel, and find out at what rate they will
                                            furnish their papers per copy, and also the same folded
                                            and stamped, to the several members of the Senate, to be
                                            delivered in the Senate Chamber.
                                    
                                
                            
                            It was adopted.
                            Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Scott, submitted a resolution requesting the
                                Secretary of State to place on the desks of Senators the Journals,
                                Acts, BREVIER REPORTS, and Annual Reports for 1872 and 1873.
                            It was adopted.
                            Mr. OLIVER submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the doorkeeper of the
                                            Senate be instructed to procure for the benefit of the
                                            members thereof, one copy each of the following papers,
                                            viz: Sentinel, Journal, News, Sun,
                                                Telegraph, Volksblatt, Herald, People and
                                            Globe.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. DAGGY. I offered a resolution a while ago to find out at what
                                price the morning papers could be had, to accommodate members of the
                                Senate. This resolution would make it obligatory upon us to pay for
                                them. I think it better for each member to subscribe for the paper
                                he wants.
                            Mr. GIVAN. I move to lay the resolution on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to.
                            Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Lawrence, submitted the following concurrent
                                resolution:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, By the Senate, the House
                                            concurring, that the two Houses of the General Assembly
                                            of the State of Indiana, will meet in joint convention,
                                            in the Hall of the House of Representatives at 2
                                            o'clock, p.m., on the 26th day of January, 1875, for the
                                            purpose of electing a State Librarian, three Directors
                                            of the Northern Prison, one Director for the State
                                            Prison, south, two Trustees of the Blind Asylum, one
                                            Trustee for the Deaf and Dumb Asylum, one Trustee for
                                            the Insane Asylum, and one Trustee for the Soldiers'
                                            Orphans' Home.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HARNEY. I move to lay the resolution on the table for the
                                present.
                            Mr. FRIEDLEY. I got the list of offices to be filled from the
                                Secretary of State, and I apprehend it will be found correct. I am
                                willing, however, that the resolution shall lay over till
                                to-morrow.
                            Mr. HARNEY acquiescing and withdrawing his motion -
                            It was so ordered by consent. And then the Senate adjourned till
                                tomorrow morning till 10 o'clock.
                        
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            MONDAY, January 11, 1875.
                        
                        The House met at two o'clock p. m., pursuant to adjournment, and
                        The SPEAKER directed the Clerk to read the journal.
                        The journal having been read and authenticated in part -
                        The SPEAKER laid before the House, he Governor's invitation of officers
                            and members of the House of Representatives to attend a reception at his
                            residence this evening, at 8 o'clock. Also a communication  from the Board of Trade of Indianapolis
                            announcing that, by an order of that body, the officers and members of
                            the House of Representatives are made honorary members of that Board for
                            1875.
                        The SPEAKER announced the Doorkeeper's appointment of John L. F. Slate,
                            Assistant Postmaster of the House of Representatives. Also the Speaker's
                            Page, and Lewis Costar, floor page.
                        
                            STANDING COMMITTEES.
                            The SPEAKER announced the Standing Committees of the House of
                                Representatives, as follows:
                            On Elections - Messrs. Willett, chairman, Arnold,
                                Gossman, Horn, Harris of Wayne, Favorit and Lincoln.
                            On Ways and Means - Messrs Caldwell, chairman,
                                Margin of Boone, Pate, Roseberry, Darnall, Fulk and Trusler.
                            On the Judiciary - Messrs. Davis, chairman, Martin
                                of Wells, Burson, Havens, Forkner, Glassgow and Kennedy of
                                Montgomery.
                            On Organization of Courts of Justice - Messrs.
                                Burson, chairman, Martin of Wells Collins, Heller, Glassgow, Forkner
                                and Shortridge.
                            On BanksMessrs. Gilbert, chairman, Reno, Snyder,
                                Walz, Ames, Anderson, and Bearss.
                            On Education - Messrs. Havens, chairman, Bence,
                                Hopkins, Walz, Shaffer, Ratcliff and Glassgow.
                            On Affairs of State Prisons - Messrs. Heller,
                                chairman, Bellow, Leeper, Davis, Evans, Shaffer and Glassgow.
                            On Swamp Lands - Messrs Burson chairman,
                                McMicheal, Brown of Jasper, Emerson, Marven of Fountain, Haynes and
                                Heighway.
                            On Military Affairs - Messrs. Kennedy of Marion,
                                chairman, Cantly, Harris of Madison, Johnson of Carroli, Charters,
                                Clark and Crumpacker.
                            On Claims - Keightley, chairman, Barney, Davidson,
                                Bellows, Dale, Harper, and Miller of Vanderburg.
                            On Trust Funds - Messrs. Brown of Rush, Crane,
                                Edwards, Gilbert, Jackson, Kennedy of Morgan and Lanharn.
                            On Fees and Salaries - Messrs. Davidson, chairman,
                                Bellows, Ramsey, Meginity, Pfafflin, Miller of Park and Shugart.
                            On Sinking Funds - Messrs. Ramsey, chairman,
                                Martin of Franklin, Miller of Brown, Montgomery, Morgan, McFadden
                                and Ratcliff.
                            On Rights and Privileges of the Inhabitants of the
                                    State - Messrs. Thompson of Marion, McCord, Nash,
                                Osborne, Woody, Wynn and Thomas.
                            On Railroads - Messrs. Crane, chairman, Patterson,
                                Pyeatt, Henderson, Bearss, Taylor of Tipton and Thompson of
                                Henry.
                            On Manufactures and Commerce - Messrs. Pate,
                                chairman, Taylor of Davis, Washburn, Waterman, Williams of Lawrence,
                                Twibill and Ribble.
                            On County and Township Business - Messrs. Williams
                                of Brown, chairman, Davidson, Ramsey, Roseberry, Miller of
                                Vanderburg, Reeder and Lanham.
                            On Agriculture - Messrs. Gilbert, Law, Reno,
                                Gossman, Ragan, Thompson of Henry and Woody.
                            On Benevolent and Scientifice Institutions -
                                Messrs. Marvin of Boone, Hopkins, Heller, Caldwell, Trusler,
                                Anderson and Taylor of Tipton.
                            On Temperance - Messrs. Bence, chairman, Crane,
                                Johnson of Dearborn, Johnson of Carroli, Anderson, Fulk and Williams
                                of Lawrence.
                            On Mileage and Accounts - Messrs. Reno, chairman,
                                Law, Shaw, Smith, Williams of Lawrence, Favorit and Clark.
                            On Corporations - Messrs. Martin of Wells,
                                chairman, Collins, Davis, Henderson, Kennedy of Morgan, Trusler and
                                Reeder.
                            On Canals - Messrs. Benee, chairman, Nash, Cantly,
                                Marvin of Fountain, Shaffer, Shortridge and Dale.
                            On Public Expenditures - Messrs. Taylor of Davis,
                                chairman, Romine, Arnold, Brown of Rush, Wynn, Jackson and
                                Lincoln.
                            On Federal Relations - Messrs. Osborne, chairman,
                                Havens, Edwards, Pyatt, Miller of Vanderburg, Wynn and Twibill.
                            On Affairs of the City of Indianapolis - Messrs.
                                Patterson, chairman, McCord, Kennedy of Marion, Nash, Ragan, Morgan
                                and Kennedy of Morgan.
                            On Cities and Towns - Messrs. Keightly, chairman,
                                Barney, Reddick, Evans, McFadden, Ratcliff and Thomas.
                            On Roads - Messrs. Kennedy of Montgomery,
                                chairman, Nash, Harris of Madison, Haynes, Heighway, Crumpacker and
                                Fulk.
                            On Statistics and Emigration - Messrs. Walz,
                                chairman, Horn, Marvin of Fountain, Montgomery, Pfafflin, Ragan and
                                Miller of Parke.
                            On Insurance Companies - Messrs. Collins,
                                Chairman, Havens, Johnson of Dearborn, Willett, Darnall, Harper and
                                Brown of Jasper.
                            On Printing - Messrs. Leeper, Chairman, Johnson of
                                Dearborn, Waterman, Martin of Franklin, Ames, Bearss and
                                Charters.
                            On Reformatory Institutions - Messrs. Waterman,
                                Chairman, Gossman, Osborne, 
                                Snyder, Emerson, Harris of Wayne, and Shugart.
                            On Drains and Dykes - Messrs. Meginity, Chairman,
                                Burson, Roseberry, Miller of Brown, Brown of Johnson, Smith and
                                Lincoln.
                            On Engrossed Bills - Messrs. McMichael, Chairman,
                                Taylor of Daviess, Reddick, Williams of Brown, Riddle, Williams of
                                Lawrence, and Lanham.
                            Joint Committee on Public Library - Messrs.
                                Johnson of Carroll, Chairman, Thompson of Marion, and
                                Shortridge.
                            Joint Committee on Public Buildings - Messrs.
                                Thompson of Marion, Chairman, Gilbert and Morgan.
                            Joint Committee on Canal Fund - Messrs. Waterman,
                                Chairman, Shaw and Forkner
                            Joint Committee on Engrossed Bills - Messrs.
                                Meginity, Chairman, Davidson, Reno, Edwards, Favorit, Thompson of
                                Henry.
                        
                        
                            TEMPERANCE.
                            Mr. RENO submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on the Judiciary and the
                                                Committee on Temperance are
                                            hereby required to act jointly in the drafting of a
                                            temperance bill to regulate the sale of intoxicating
                                            liquors, according to the principles of the Democratic
                                            platform adopted in July, 1874. in the city of
                                            Indianapolis, and the recommendation of Governor
                                            Hendricks to the Legislature now assembled; and they are
                                            required to submit the result of their labors to this
                                            House at as early a period of the session as
                                            possible.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. KENNEDY of Montgomery. There is at least one very serious
                                objection to one of the recommendations of Governor Hendricks on
                                this subject, and that is his recommendation that the buyer of
                                liquor as well as the seller shall be punished. This, in Mr. K's
                                opinion, would effectually suppress all evidence of the violation of
                                any good liquor law. For example, if the selling is to a minor,
                                according to the Governor's recommendation, the minor must be
                                punished. But you can't make a witness of a minor. Still, in any
                                case, if this recommendation in the Governor's message is adhered
                                to, he would like gentlemen to tell where they will get the evidence
                                on which to found a prosecution; for a party cannot be compelled to
                                convict himself. He saw not how we could get along with these cases
                                without soliciting for the witness the party which is generally
                                regarded as the least culpable.
                            Mr. DAVIS. In the organization of the committees of the House, it is
                                understood that they act independently and separately: and when you
                                attempt to require two committees to act as one upon any given
                                subject - I submit whether it is not an infringement upon the
                                practice of the House, if not a violation of the rules?
                            The SPEAKER. It is certainly against the practice of the House; but
                                the Chair can not say that it is a violation of the rules.
                            Mr. DAVIS would suggest then to his friend, the mover of the
                                resolution [Mr. Reno,] that it would be better simply to direct his
                                resolution to the Committee on Temperance. That
                                committee is perhaps able to take care of the subject. The
                                resolution is all well enough; we should perhaps, have some
                                expression in regard to the matter, before the bill is prepared.
                            Mr. RENO. His object was to have the Temperance
                                    Committee get up the bill, and that its technical and
                                constitutional intricase be considered by the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary. However he accepted the modification
                                and called for the yeas and nays on the resolution.
                            The vote resulted - yeas 51, nays 48.
                            So the resolution was adopted.
                        
                        
                            MILITARY USURPATION IN LOUISIANA.
                            Mr. HAVENS submitted a motion to take up his joint resolution [H. R.
                                1,] on the subject of military usurpation in the State of
                                Louisiana.
                            The motion was agreed to and the joint resolution was taken up and
                                read.
                            Mr. CHARTERS. I move that the joint resolution be referred to the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations.
                            Mr. HAVENS hoped that course would not be pressed. If ever there was
                                a time in the history of this country, when State Legislatures ought
                                to give expression against the innovations of popular rights and
                                civil liberty, it is such a time and such a day as that referred to
                                in this resolution. When it was first offered last week, gentlemen
                                said they would like to have time to consider to look into the
                                facts,they did not want to be pressed: and the House acquiesced. But
                                now, if gentlemen have read the correct history of the late events
                                in New Orleans, they must be prepared to vote an expression of their
                                views and feeling in the matter that should be heard throughout the
                                length and breadth of the land. It is undeniable that the facts and
                                circumstances evince that an outrage has been committed upon
                                constitutional government. The people of Louisiana have been goaded
                                to desperation, and may have done wrong; but there is no
                                justification for the administration in this case. The whole case is
                                one of simple, unvarnished history. The question at issue is so
                                plain, that the conduct of the administration is not definable from
                                any standpoint. When such men as William M. Evarts, and William
                                Cullen Bryant come to the front to denounce?  it, as an oppression and outrage, we
                                may well follow them. It has also been said by the Governor of
                                Indiana, that no court, and much less, no military powers have the
                                right to go back of the decision of a deliberative body of
                                Representatives of the people, to say who shall or who shall not sit
                                and deliberate as its members. He (Mr. H.) would call this
                                transaction in Louisana a High crime and misdemeanor. One for which
                                the administration should be held to a strict account to the people.
                                It was not merely an outrage, but a crime against the liberties of
                                the people. If the President had sent down his armed soldiery, and
                                thrust out the members of this Legislature, the case would have been
                                precisely parallel. This outrage and crime was as unexpected as it
                                is monstrous and alarming. It simply marks the footsteps by which
                                the Republican party proposes to retain and maintain its position
                                and power.
                            Gen. Phil. H. Sheridan, says in a letter, that he was not on command
                                on the 4th of January, and that letter has received various
                                comments. The people of the city of New York met that night to
                                condemn his acts and his letter, in which he asks that the people of
                                Louisiana be denounced as but a body of white leagues and banditte.
                                If he understood the facts, the case was the reverse of the general
                                statement, that the people of Louisiana were worthy and law abiding
                                citizens. But the General asks that they may be declared as
                                banditte, and leave the rest to him and his orders of a commander,
                                who, perhaps, is thirsting for blood.
                            Gen. Sheridian has been a good soldier, just as (Mr. HAVENS) himself
                                had been in a small way, but when he asks for such a declaration and
                                such proceedings against the people of Louisiana, he brands himself
                                with infamy. On this question it seemed to him that there would not
                                be found a man to stand up for and support the conduct of this
                                administration.
                            Mr. CHARTERS understood that we have committees to attend to these
                                matters, and the House should wait for their action. As to the facts
                                alleged in the joint resolution, a large portion of us here do not
                                believe a word of these reported outrages, and we ask but that the
                                resolution may go through the usual forms of deliberation, that it
                                may be referred to the proper committee and fairly considered there,
                                and that so we may have the benefit of their deliberate report. He
                                commended the soldierly character of Gen. Sheridan, and reminded
                                gentlemen, that we represent here, not Louisiana, but the affairs of
                                the people of Indiana.
                            Mr. TRUSLER regarded this debate as a waste of time. The time
                                Representatives are consuming here belongs to the people of Indiana,
                                and it seemed to him that this resolution was dragged in here for no
                                higher purpose than to enable politicians to waste the time and
                                money of the people by ventilations of their views of national
                                politics. He was not here to legislate for the State of Louisiana,
                                or to sit in judgment or pass sentence upon Gen. Grant or Gen.
                                Sheridan. If this were our business, he could see nothing in it but
                                good room for precious time to be squandered.
                            Mr. PFAFLIN. What we can understand of this matter now must be
                                gathered only from the vague discussions of the newspapers. There is
                                a Congressional committee on this matter not yet heard from, and he
                                should vote that the resolution go to the committee on
                                    Federal Relations.
                            Mr. DARNALL was not prepared for the introduction of such a
                                resolution so soon after the organization, especially since the
                                speaker deprecated such propositions as unprofitable legislation. He
                                heartily concurred in that remark in the Speaker's address, and had
                                hoped that it would be an index to the course of the majority of
                                this House. But there are special reasons why we should not adopt
                                this resolution. We know not what is the state of facts in
                                Louisiana, and we have no power, like the Congress of the United
                                States to send a committee there. We might spend the entire session
                                upon this question without coming to any just conclusion. One
                                gentleman reads one class of newspapers and another reads another
                                class, and in the end, when we compare all our notes derived from
                                these sources of information, we shall know no more about this
                                matter than when we began. He was as distinctly in favor of popular
                                rights as any man, but before voting on this resolution he wanted to
                                know from New Orleans whether they are suppressing popular rights or
                                popular rascality. Another reason against spending time about this
                                resolution is the very short period to which the session is limited.
                                We all have bills requiring consideration, besides those for the
                                general public appropriations. And if we had not these things
                                pressing upon us, still we have not the time to do justice to such a
                                subject as this resolution furnishes, and even if we had nothing
                                else to do it might be better for us to let it alone. Congress has
                                this matter properly in hand, and they have or have had a committee
                                there in Louisiana. They are also able to take care of the case. For
                                these reasons, as well as others that might be readily suggested, he
                                would oppose all such propositions, and should now vote that the
                                resolution go to the committee indicated by the motion of the
                                gentleman from Miami, [Mr. Charters] and if the facts are  found to be infamous as the resolution
                                alleges, he should vote for it.
                            Mr. BURSON could not understand how anything done by the people of
                                Louisiana has anything to do with this question. This question is
                                all in the fact that the Legislature of Louisiana, has been
                                suppressed by the military of the United States, and the Government
                                of the United States had no right to do that. The newspapers say
                                that that Legislature was taken possession of by the
                                military force of the United States. Every newspaper all over the
                                country says that; and it is sufficient for us to know that the
                                Representatives of the people of Louisiana have been trampled upon
                                by the military. He was sorry to hear Republican members oppose the
                                passage of this resolution, for, if the President intends to trample
                                the liberties of the people under foot, they are the party to have
                                their say about it, and the friends of Gen. Grant should be the
                                first to denounce such an act. It is simply a question of liberty,
                                for the rights of free Government have been trampled upon. The
                                Republican party have set themselves up as teachers of the people.
                                They have been the schoolmaster that taught us what liberty means;
                                they freed four millions of negroes, and now, (he contended) it is
                                not right - it is unjust and unworthy for these gentlemen to go back
                                on a resolution of this kind. The resolution should not be
                                referred.
                            Mr. CALDWELL. As to the waste of time deprecated by the gentleman
                                from Howard, [Mr. Darnall,] Mr. C. undertook to say that no time of
                                this session could be better spent than in the consideration of the
                                resolution offered by the gentleman from Vigo, [Mr. Havens.] Do not
                                gentlemen know that the State of Indiana has the right to instruct
                                her Senators and Representatives in Congress in regard to such an
                                outrage? He cared not if it take to discuss this resolution - was in
                                favor of taking the time, - because it is one of the most important
                                measures introduced here. Indeed, there seems to be no difference of
                                opinion in this whole country in relation to the character of the
                                outrage that has been perpetrated against the rights of the people
                                of Louisiana. There has been a public meeting held in Fanuel Hall -
                                the old cradle - and there been meetings held all over the country,
                                in which resolutions of denunciation have been directed against that
                                outrage. The State of Louisiana has been theater of oppressions on
                                the part of General Government, and it is time people were freed
                                from it. There is no better settled principle of free Government
                                than this: That the Legislature of the people has the right to
                                determine the election and qualification of its own members. Then is
                                it right that such a question as that involved in this resolution
                                should be smothered? The House should make a record to-day, one way
                                or' the other, in regard to this matter.
                            Mr. CRUMPACKFR demanded the previous question but did not urge
                                it.
                            Mr. KENNEDY, of Montgomery, had hoped that nothing would be thrown in
                                here to hurt the feelings of gentlemen that ought to get along
                                harmoniously. As has been said, we have a National Congress whose
                                duty it is to take care of measures of this kind; the State of
                                Indiana has an able delegation there; and he was in favor of leaving
                                this question with them, because that body has full power to settle
                                it, and we have not. The gentleman from Vigo [Mr. Havens] says that
                                General Grant ought to be impeached for this business in Louisiana.
                                In reply to that, he read a paragraph from Greeley's History of the
                                Great Conflict, to the effect, that the Legislature of the State of
                                Kansas, under the Free State (Lecompton) Constitution met in session
                                on the Fourth of July r 1856, but they were not allowed to organize,
                                Col. Sumner having dispersed them by order of President Pierce.
                                Ought President Pierce to have been impeached for that act? But
                                wherein was that a very different thing from this Louisiana
                                business? In Kansas, Col. Sumner, acting under the slave-driver's
                                whip, disperses a free State Legislature - disperses them by the
                                military, by the direct order of President Pierce. Ought President
                                Pierce to have been impeached for that act? No; Pierce did his duty;
                                and Grant has done precisely what Pierce did precisely what the
                                Constitution required him to do. He then looked into the General
                                Constitution and read the clause which requires the National
                                Government to guarantee to every State a republican form of
                                Government,and that the nation should defend the State against
                                domestic violence. Has there not been a case of domestic violence in
                                Louisiana? That cannot be denied. It would be monstrous, then, if
                                the President of the United States would stand aside and refuse to
                                suppress domestic violence in Louisiana. Gentlemen forget that there
                                was no legislative body organized in Louisiana. It was a mob that
                                was dispersed. Who has disputed the fact that Republicans elected a
                                majority of the Louisiana Legislature? Who has denied the fact that
                                the Democratic members elect had not enough to organize? It was a
                                mob then that was dispersed  by
                                the military. He, as earnestly as any man, is opposed to military
                                interference with civil power. But it is not becoming here to
                                express sympathy with lawlessness. To do such a thing would be to
                                ally ourselves with the lawless. He had no sympathy with those who
                                will not submit to law. He would not vote to sensure President Grant
                                or Philip Sheridan for what they have done in Louisiana. They have
                                done nothing but what the defence of law and order requires. There
                                can be no requirement for haste in this matter, and if there has
                                been an outrage committed, it is wiser to carefully determine the
                                facts before the censure.
                            Mr. FORKNER deprecated this discussion because it could have little
                                effect on the General Government, and it was a waste of time. He
                                however denied the allegation that there had been military
                                in-fringment of the civil authority in Louisiana. But we do know
                                that there was rebellion and bloodshed in New Orleans last summer -
                                rebellion against the de facto government of Louisiana, which
                                required the interference of the military; and here again, lately,
                                the military were called upon to disperse men who were of the
                                minority of the House of Representatives in Louisiana, and who were
                                seeking to usurp the authority of the Legislature of that State. In
                                the name of the people and of the spirit of economy, which has given
                                so many members^their places in this House; he protested against
                                this waste of time here, to make personal records.
                            Mr. MARVIN of Boone, hoped this Joint resolution would be allowed to
                                pass to the third reading without further opposition. The
                                Republicans had said the most - so far they had been about two to
                                one, and he had something himself to say; but he preferred a demand
                                for the previous question. He however withheld the demand for
                            Mr. LANHAM, who concurred with those who regarded this decision as a
                                waste of time. He deprecated excitement, and hoped the resolution
                                would be I committed. No doubt the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations were competent to the discussion of this
                                matter, and would make a just report.
                            Mr. HELLER regarded the cause, of the people of Louisiana as the
                                cause of the people of every State in the Union. Gentlemen say that
                                this is not our business, but the business of Congress. He insisted
                                that it was precisely a question upon which we should be heard. We
                                know what has been done, and if there has been oppression and
                                usurpation, it is our duty to raise our voices against it, and in
                                favor of the sufferers.
                            Mr. CRUMPACKER renewed his demand for the previous question but there
                                was no second.
                            Mr. KENNEDY, of Morgan, showed that, at least there could be nothing
                                wrong in studying such a question as this before acting upon it.
                            Mr. DAVIS stated the facts in the organization of the Louisiana House
                                of Representatives, detailing all the steps in that matter. Now,
                                whether these steps were regular or irregular, what right had the
                                military to interfere and pretend to usurp the right to decide who
                                were members of that legislative body? That question belongs to the
                                body itself. It was a fundamental right of self-government. The
                                resolution states plainly the infraction of this right by the
                                military, under the order of the President, and he was in favor of
                                action upon it.
                            Mr. WOODY could not allow the occasion to pass without stating his
                                views against the hasty action sought to be taken on this
                                resolution. He alleged that the conservative presiding officer of
                                the pretended body was the first to call for the interference of the
                                military; and upon this and other matters he predicated his
                                conclusion, that, at least, for the present, there is no pressing
                                occasion for the resolution.
                            Mr. JOHNSON, of Carroll, did not want to see this resolution go to
                                the committee. Free representative government had been broken down
                                in Louisiana sister State, and it was not right that we should delay
                                or hesitate to raise our voice against it.
                            The motion to refer was rejected, without a division; and then the
                                joint resolution was ordered to be engrossed for the third
                                reading.
                            Mr. DARNALL asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill [H. R. 44]
                                for an act to authorize the County Commissioners of their respective
                                counties of the State to purchase all the books, stationery, etc.
                                for their county officers and the Circuit and Inferior Courts, and
                                to punish County Commissioners for speculating on such
                                purchases.
                            Mr. MARTIN, of Wells, introduced a bill [H. R. 45] for an act to
                                regulate and license the sale of malt, spiritous, vinous and other
                                intoxicating liquors, prescribing penalties, modes of prosecution,
                                and repealing all former laws on the subject.
                            On motion of Mr. LEEFER, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Door-keeper be
                                            requested to make a requisition on the Sec-  retary of the State to lay
                                            on the desks of members, a stock of prepared stationery,
                                            not to exceed the stock now in his office, and that the
                                            same be equally divided amongst members.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. MORGAN submitted a resolution (which was adopted,) directing the
                                    Committee on Fees and Salaries to report a
                                bill fixing the pay of members of the General Assembly at five
                                dollars a day, and five dollars mileage.
                            Mr. PFAFLIN introduced a bill [H. R. 46] for an act to authorize the
                                United States of America to acquire title to land in the State of
                                Indiana by condemnation, and declaring; the manner in which said
                                condemnation shall be made.
                            The foregoing bills were passed to the second reading.
                        
                        
                            THE ORDER OF PRAYER.
                            Mr. LANHAM submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That a committee of
                                                five be appointed by the Speaker, whose
                                            duty it shall be to invite the resident ministers of
                                            Indianapolis to be present in this Hall, when convenient
                                            for some one of them at the opening of each day's
                                            proceedings, and when called on by the Speaker, to open
                                            the session of each day with a brief prayer.
                                    
                                
                            
                            It was adopted - Yeas 39, nays 18.
                            Whereupon, the SPEAKER makes the special committee to consist of
                                Messrs. Lanharn, Williams of Brown, Johnson of Carroll, Fulk and
                                Reno.
                            The House then adjourned till to-morrow morning at nine o'clock.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    VOLUME FIFTEEN.
                    INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            TUESDAY, January 12, 1875.
                        
                        The Senate met at 10 o'clock, a. m., pursuant to adjournment. Lieutenant
                            Governor Sexton in the chair.
                        The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were being read, when
                            -
                        Mr. RHODES moved to dispense with the further reading thereof.
                        Mr. DAGGY objecting remarked that in looking over the Secretary's journal
                            of the first day's proceedings he had found omissions and serious
                            errors.
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR said there were some very serious errors in the
                            journal of two years ago, also; and he expressed a desire to
                            have the daily minutes duly authenticated.
                        The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read and
                            approved.
                        
                            STANDING COMMITTEES.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. - Gentlemen of the Senate: I have the honor
                                to lay before you the appointment of the standing committees of the
                                Senate.
                            On Elections - Messrs. Chapman, Harney, Beardsley, Bowman, Friedley,
                                of Scott, Hough.
                            On Finance - Messrs. Sleeth, Boone, Daggy, Johnston of Parke, Bell,
                                Friedley of Lawrence.
                            On Education - Messrs. Scott, Johnston of Parke, Friedley of
                                Lawrence, Beardsley, Boone, LaRue, Major.
                            On Corporations - Messrs. Hough, Bowman, Gooding, Maxwell, Sleeth,
                                Humphrey, Underwood.
                            On Roads - Messrs. Bunyan, Cardwell, Grove, Haworth, Neff, Skinner,
                                Tobin.
                            On Benevolent Institutions - Messrs. Thompson, Davidson, Hough,
                                Ringo, Roe, Wilson, Hackleman.
                            On Agriculture - Messrs. Boehe, Cree, Haworth, Henderson, Bowman,
                                Roe, Baxter.
                            On Banks - Messrs. Givan, Boone, Winterbotham, Chapman, Dykeman,
                                Bunyan, Hendricks.
                            On Manufactures - Messrs, Beardsley, Bell, Bunyan, Ringo, Culbertson,
                                Oliver, Grove.
                            On Public Printing - Messrs. Slater, Beardsley, Peed, Hough,
                                Hendricks, Gooding, Major.
                            On Public Buildings - Messrs. Oliver,. Slater, Scott, Boone, Bearss,
                                Harney, Friedley of Lawrence.
                            On Prisons - Messrs. Friedley of Scott,, Stockslager, Baxter,
                                Winterbotham, Howard, Johnson of Floyd, Underwood.
                            On Canals and Internal Improvements - Messrs. Sarnighausen,
                                Culbertson,. Haworth, Howard, Cree, Henderson, Tobin.
                            On State Library - Messrs. Oliver, Slater, Rhodes, Davidson, Scott,
                                Bearss, Johnson of Floyd.
                            On Fees and Salaries - Messrs. Rhodes, Smith, Neff, Cardwell, Wilson,
                                Howard, Stockslager.
                            On Claims - Messrs. Harney, Johnson of Parke, Slater, Roe, Cree,
                                Hackleman, Hendricks.
                            0n Military Affairs - Messrs. Larue, Dykeman, Gooding, Maxwell,
                                Sarnighausen, Thompson, Cardwell.
                            On Enrolled Bills - Messrs. Johnston of Parke, Cree, Wilson.
                            On Phraseology aud arrangment of Bills - Messrs. Bell, Daggy,
                                Humphreys, Givan, Chapman, Smith, Scott.
                            On Unfinished Business - Messrs. Baxter, Boone, Cardwell, Davidson,
                                Friedley of Scott, Grove, Henderson.
                            On Organization of Courts - Messrs.
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    VOLUME FIFTEEN.
                    INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            TUESDAY, January 12, 1875.
                        
                        The Senate met at 10 o'clock, a. m., pursuant to adjournment. Lieutenant
                            Governor Sexton in the chair.
                        The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were being read, when
                            -
                        Mr. RHODES moved to dispense with the further reading thereof.
                        Mr. DAGGY objecting remarked that in looking over the Secretary's journal
                            of the first day's proceedings he had found omissions and serious
                            errors.
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR said there were some very serious errors in the
                            journal of two years ago, also; and he expressed a desire to
                            have the daily minutes duly authenticated.
                        Mr. RHODES withdrew his motion and -
                        The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read and
                            approved.
                        
                            STANDING COMMITTEES.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. - Gentlemen of the Senate: I have the honor
                                to lay before you the appointment of the standing committees of the
                                Senate.
                            On Elections - Messrs. Daggy, Dykeman, Hackleman, Givan, Johnston of
                                Parke, Rhodes, Winterbotham.
                            On Finance - Messrs. Chapman, Harney, Beardsley, Bowman, Friedley, of
                                Scott, Dykeman, Hough.
                            On the Judiciary - Messrs. Sleeth, Boone, Daggy. Peed, Johnston of
                                Parke, Bell, Friedley of Lawrence.
                            On Education - Messrs. Scott, Johnson of Floyd, Friedley of Lawrence,
                                Beardsley, Boone, LaRue, Major.
                            On Corporations - Messrs. Hough, Bowman, Gooding, Maxwell, Sleeth,
                                Humphrey, Underwood.
                            On Roads - Messrs. Bunyan, Cardwell, Grove, Haworth, Neff, Skinner,
                                Tobin.
                            On Benevolent Institutions - Messrs. Thompson, Davidson, Hough,
                                Ringo, Roe, Wilson, Hackleman.
                            On Agriculture - Messrs. Boone, Cree, Haworth, Bowman, Roe,
                                Baxter.
                            On Banks - Messrs. Givan, Bearss, Winterbotham, Chapman, Dykeman,
                                Bunyan, Hendricks.
                            On Manufactures - Messrs, Beardsley, Bell, Bunyan, Ringo, Culbertson,
                                Oliver, Grove.
                            On Public Printing - Messrs. Slater, Beardsley, Peed, Hough,
                                Hendricks, Gooding, Major.
                            On Public Buildings - Messrs. Oliver, Slater, Scott, Boone, Bearss,
                                Harney, Friedley of Lawrence.
                            On Prisons - Messrs. Friedley of Scott, Stockslager, Baxter,
                                Winterbotham, Howard, Johnson of Floyd, Underwood.
                            On Canals and Internal Improvements - Messrs. Sarnighausen,
                                Culbertson, Haworth, Howard, Cree, Henderson, Tobin.
                            On State Library - Messrs. Oliver, Slater, Rhodes, Davidson, Scott,
                                Bearss, Johnson of Floyd.
                            On Fees and Salaries - Messrs. Rhodes, Smith, Neff, Cardwell, Wilson,
                                Howard, Stockslager.
                            On Claims - Messrs. Harney, Johnson of Parke, Slater, Roe, Cree,
                                Hackleman, Hendricks.
                            On Military Affairs - Messrs. Larue, Dykeman, Gooding, Maxwell,
                                Sarnighausen, Thompson, Cardwell.
                            On Phraseology and arrangement of Bills - Messrs. Bell,
                                Daggy, Humphreys, Givan, Chapman, Smith, Scott.
                            On Unfinished Business - Messrs. Baxter, Boone, Cardwell, Davidson,
                                Friedley of Scott, Grove, Henderson.
                            On Organization of Courts - Messrs,  Gooding, Smith, Johnston of Parke,
                                Givan, Sleeth, Stockslager, Friedley of Lawrence.
                            On Expenditures - Messrs. Bearss, Culbertson, Thompson, Skinner,
                                Tobin, Humphreys, Neff.
                            On Federal Relations - Messrs. Hackleman, Johnson of Parke, Neff,
                                Peed, Baxter, Scott, Wilson.
                            On Swamp Lands - Messrs. Dykeman, Oliver, Skinner, Ringo,
                                Winterbotham, La-Rue, Tobin.
                            On Temperance - Messrs. Neff, Ringo, Boone, Baxter, Howard, Maxwell,
                                Humphreys.
                            On County and Township Business - Mr. Howard, Grove, Major,
                                Underwood, Bowman, Haworth.
                            On Rights and Privileges of Inhabitants of the State - Messrs.
                                Johnston of Parke, Gooding, Oliver, Roe, Sarnighausen, Stockslager,
                                Winterbotham.
                            On Reformatory Institutions - Messrs. Haworth, Bell, Baxter,
                                Hendricks, Bearss, Cree, Winterbotham.
                            On Emigration and Statisics - Messrs. Johnson of Floyd, Haworth,
                                Sarnighausen, Roe, Peed, Scott, Oliver.
                            On Insurance - Messrs. Stockslager, Thompson, Skinner, Chapman,
                                Maxwell, Daggy, Humphreys.
                            On Railroads - Friedley of Lawrence, Dykeman, Sleeth, Bell, Smith,
                                Gooding, Scott.
                            On Mines and Mining - Messrs. Major, Ringo, Daggy, Humphreys, Scott,
                                Wilson, Rhodes.
                        
                        
                            JOINT STANDING COMMITTEES.
                            On Enrolled Bills - Messrs. Johnston of Parke, Cree, Wilson.
                            On Public Buildings - Messrs. Oliver, Slater, Scott.
                            On State Library - Messrs. Rhodes, Davidson, Bearss.
                            On Canal Fund - Messrs. Haworth, Humphreys, Cardwell.
                            On Claims - Messrs. Harney, Roe, Cree.
                            Mr. SMITH moved, ineffectually, for a suspension of the order of
                                business that his temperance bill [S. 2] described on page five of
                                these Reports may be read by title and ordered printed.
                        
                        
                            CHAPLAIN SERVICE.
                            Mr. FRIEDLEY of Scott, submitted a resolution, which was adopted,
                                authorizing the appointment of a committee of three to secure the
                                services of some minister to act as chaplain each morning during the
                                session.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR subsequently made the Committee to consist of
                                Messrs. Friedley of Scott, Thompson and Smith.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            Mr. THOMPSON introduced a bill [S. 53] for an act to amend Section
                                five of an act regulating descents, approved May 14, 1852, and
                                adding a supplementary section to said act approved March 4,
                                1853.
                            [It proposes to give married women their earnings, and to subject
                                married women's property to the responsibility of her debts.]
                            Mr. CARDWELL introduced a bill [S. 54] for an act to amend section 9
                                and 10 of the act relating to the election and qualification of
                                Justices of the Peace, approved June 9, 1852. [It proposes to
                                enlarge their jurisdiction.]
                            Mr. SMITH introduced a bill [S. 55] to amend section 16 of the act
                                concerning real property and the alienation thereof, approved May 6,
                                1852.
                            [It proposes to require deeds, mortgages and leases for the term of
                                three years, to be recorded within thirty days from the execution
                                instead of ninety as now.]
                            Mr. LARUE introduced a bill [S. 56] for an act to amend the first
                                section of the act of February 10, 1869, to prevent the introduction
                                and spread in this State of the Texas or Spanish cattle fever.
                            [It strikes out the word "March" and inserts instead the word
                                "April."]
                            Mr. JOHNSTON, of Parke, introduced a bill [S. 57] to repeal the act
                                of March 9, 1867, for the protection of fish.
                            Mr. HOWARD introduced a bill [S. 58] for an act to amend section
                                three of the act of May 31, 1852, prescribing who may make a will,
                                the effect thereof, what may be advised, etc. [Children of testator
                                born after making a will, and posthumous children, unprovided for by
                                testator, shall take under the law - to raise which
                                    devises and legatees shall contribute pro rata.]
                            Mr. BEARDSLEY introduced a bill [S. 59] for an act to amend section
                                29 of the supervisor of highways act of March 5, 1859. [To repeal
                                the law requiring road tax of incorporated towns to be paid t0 the
                                township trustee, and requiring said tax to he paid to the city
                                fund.]
                            Mr. SCOTT introduced a bill [S. 60] for an act defining the
                                liabilities of infants and persons contracting with infants of a
                                certain age, and declaring an emergency.
                            [It provides for the devoiding of contract made by minors, and
                                requiring them to return the property received or money paid in the
                                contract before the contract shall be declared void.]
                            Mr. THOMPSON introduced a bill [S. 61] for an act to amend section 5
                                of an act touching the marriage relation, approved May 31, 1852.
                        
                        
                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            The files were cleared of Senate bills on the second reading by
                                reference to appropriate committees. The bills having been read by
                                title only for that purpose.
                        
                        
                            ORGANIZATION OF THE COURTS.
                            Mr. BOONE submitted a resolution directing the committee on the
                                organization of courts of justice to inquire into the expediency of
                                dividing the State into criminal circuits, and establishing criminal
                                courts therein; and, also, of requiring when a case is at issue that
                                the parties thereto shall elect whether the trial shall be by court
                                or jury, and if by jury to have it set down for a day certain, and
                                to so arrange all trials that they shall be disposed of in
                                succession.
                            Mr. BOONE. I do not know how it is throughout the State generally,
                                but in the courts where I have been called to practice, I find that
                                indictments by grand juries are being found during the term, bench
                                warrants are sent out and persons charged with crime are being
                                brought in and by the statute they are entitled to trial at the
                                expense of civil business. It is sometimes the case that a single
                                criminal charge will take up a whole week, thus demoralizing the
                                civil docket set down weeks before. The civil business is compelled
                                to stand still at a great sacrifice until the criminal business is
                                disposed of, and juries are seriously demoralized by the difference
                                in instructions given by the court in criminal cases, and in civil
                                cases. In one case they are instructed that they must be the judges,
                                both of law and fact, and in the other, that they are simply judges
                                of the fact, and must take the law as the court gives it to them. It
                                is astonishing to learn the confusion in the minds of jurors on this
                                subject after being in the presence of the court for five weeks.
                                That tends to demoralize justice, I have no doubt. My feeling was,
                                two years ago, that it would be better to divide the civil and the
                                criminal practice. The business is more confused in our courts than
                                it was before the change. I do not know that the plan proposed in my
                                resolution is best, but I desire to present it tor the consideration
                                of the committee.
                            Mr. SLATER, I demand the yeas and nays in order to get the sense of
                                the Senate on this question,
                            Mr. HOUGH, said: I desire to say, before the vote is taken on this
                                resolution that so far as my observation and experience goes the
                                evils complained of by the Senator from Boone (Mr. Boone) do not
                                exist to any considerable extent in my part of the State. Under the
                                admirable system of rules adopted for the transaction of business in
                                my circuit, the business of our court was never so promptly,
                                satisfactorily and economically done. The first week of each term is
                                devoted to probate business - the formation of the issues in civil
                                causes and the disposal of causes on default. The second week, in
                                which the jury first appears for the term the criminal causes are
                                taken up and disposed of, so far as they may be. The third and
                                fourth weeks are occupied in the trial of civil causes, each of
                                which is set down for trial by the court at the time the issues are
                                perfected therein; and the witnesses are then subpoened. And the
                                times for the trial of causes by the court and jury respectively,
                                are so fixed that when a jury is absent from the court room
                                deliberating upon their verdict in a cause the judge takes up and
                                disposes of one or more of, the causes submitted to the court tor
                                trial without the intervention of a jury.
                            I believe that if the judges of the other circuits in this State
                                would substantially adopt and be governed by the rules of our
                                circuit and display the energy and promptness which characterizes
                                the labors of our judge, there would be but little if any cause of
                                complaint in any circuit.
                            Two years ago there was pending in this body a series of bills, the
                                objective points of which were: first, the abolishment of the Common
                                Pleas Court; secondly, the increase of the number of circuits and
                                circuit judges, and thirdly, the increase of the salary of the
                                circuit judges. I then opposed all of those measures for the reason
                                that I believed if they should be adopted and then the Common Pleas
                                system should be revived either in the same or a different name the
                                result would be a large increase in the expenditure of the State for
                                judicial purposes. I predicted, in explanation of my vote on the
                                passage of the bill, establishing our present judicial system that
                                there would be an effort in less than five years, to re-establish
                                the old system or inaugurate a new one, which would cost the State
                                of Indiana at least $150,000 per annum more than ever before and it
                                seems my prediction was true. Our present system has operated much
                                better than I apprehended, and judging from my stand point, there is
                                no necessity for establishing a criminal court or making any radical
                                change.
                            Mr. BELL. Residing in a county in which we have a criminal court, and
                                not feeling the full force of the evils referred to by Senators, yet
                                having practiced in other courts, I have observed the troubles
                                referred to, and I think there should be some plan provided to obviate them. If
                                a change of venue is taken from our court, it is almost a matter of
                                impossibility to get the case tried, and there is trouble in the
                                disposition and management of probate business, which forms with us,
                                as important a branch of jurisprudence as any other, and it is
                                almost utterly neglected. The court has not time to advise itself as
                                to the condition of these matters, and for that reason, I offer an
                                amendment to the resolution: that said committee inquire into the
                                expediency of establishing a surrogate system for the disposition of
                                probate business, the Judges to be paid from fees, taxed in such
                                cases, to be their own clerks, etc.
                            Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Lawrence. I am opposed both to the original
                                resolution and the amendment. Our judicial system is already
                                sufficiently expensive, and these propositions would increase still
                                further the expense. There comes up a voice from every county in
                                this State, asking the Legislature not to increase the number of
                                officers, but, if possible, to decrease them.
                            Mr. BEARSS. I, too, am opposed to the resolution. It seems to be the
                                object to increase the number of Judges and officers, and if that is
                                allowed, it will be but a short time I fear before Judges will be
                                more numerous than colonels and captains. [Laughter.] I am opposed
                                to it because it will add greatly to the expense.
                            Mr. LARUE. 1 am in favor of the adoption of the original resolution,
                                but opposed to the amendment. I am in favor of keeping down expenses
                                where they can be, but the expense of courts will be largely
                                diminished by furnishing to the people, justice without delay. We
                                should have enough Judges to do justice to the people, and it is
                                possible we may be able to remedy existing evils without increasing
                                the number of Judges.
                            Mr. SLEETH. I offer the following amendment to the amendment:
                            "And further, that such surrogate Judge be ex-officio president of
                                the Board of County Commissioners."
                            Mr. BELL. I accept the amendment.
                            Mr. SLEETH. There is, perhaps no body in the State which transacts as
                                much important business for the people, as the Board of County
                                Commissioners, and there is none so incompetent. Whatever kind of
                                amendment we make to the judicial system there ought to be some kind
                                of a balance wheel provided for the County Commissioners' court.
                                There are two kinds of economy. It is just as well for the people to
                                pay the same amount ot money in salaries, and have their business
                                transacted properly and speedily, as to pay out twice the amount of
                                money that should be paid to witnesses, if a proper system were
                                adopted. This resolution is simply one of inquiry, and no Senator is
                                bound by his vote on it.
                            Mr. NEFF. Two years ago when the change was made, I was opposed to
                                it, and said I believed it would not give satisfaction. I am now in
                                favor of making this inquiry, for I believe a better plan could be
                                devised, and one that would not necessarily cost any more than the
                                present system.
                            Mr. RHODES. I happen to be one of the members of this Senate who
                                opposed the judiciary change two years ago. Now, as was predicted at
                                that time, the proposition is to organize another court, or extend,
                                a court already organized in some of the counties, to every part of
                                the State. There are already Criminal courts in those counties which
                                have a large amount of criminal business, and is it not true, that
                                they furnish the measure of relief herein asked for? The trouble
                                seems to be with the manner in which the Judges dispose of their
                                business. We have no trouble in the county where I live, hence, I do
                                not believe if the committee were to report a bill that it would
                                furnish the desired relief. I have no objection to a law prescribing
                                the manner in which the business of the court should be managed, but
                                I think it unnecessary to take up the time of the Senate in
                                investigating the subject proposed, and I therefore move that the
                                resolution and amendment lie on the table.
                            The motion was agreed to by yeas 28, nays 18.
                            Pending the vote -
                            Mr. GOODING said: I do not wish to commit myself to any proposition
                                by the vote I now give.
                            Mr. PEED: It is evident to my mind, that in some localities relief
                                should be granted, but whether that relief should be by creating
                                this Criminal Court, or adopting some other system, I do not now
                                desire to commit myself.
                            Mr. SKINNER, when his name was called, expressed his opposition to
                                the measure because it proposed to increase the cost of the judicial
                                system.
                            Mr. SMITH adopted the sentiment just expressed by the Senator from
                                Vanderburg [Mr. Gooding.]
                            Mr. STOCKSLAGER, when his name was called, said: I do not desire by
                                the vote I shall give upon this motion to commit myself to any
                                system. As has been said, it is evident that relief is demanded in
                                some parts of the State. While I think the change adopted two years
                                ago was wise, it was not to be
                                expected that the system could have been made perfect at once. I am
                                opposed to creating any new circuits, but I think our court system
                                can be made much more perfect by changing the circuits. We have no
                                trouble except that our Judge is overworked. Our business is
                                transacted much better than under the old system. The only change we
                                desire is that one of our large counties be taken off and some
                                smaller county added, thereby making less work for our Judge.
                            The vote was announced as above.
                            So the resolution lies on the table.
                        
                        
                            GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                            On motion by Mr. WILSON, it was
                            Ordered, That three thousand copies of the
                                Governor's Message be printed in English and one thousand in the
                                German language.
                            And then the Senate took a recess till two o'clock p. m.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at two o'clock, p. m.
                            
                                RULES.
                                Mr. GOODING, from the special com-committee on rules,
                                    reported the following: [The same in force last session except a
                                    change in the last clause of rule 38.]
                                1. The President shall take the chair every day precisely at ten
                                    o'clock in the forenoon, and two o'clock in the afternoon,
                                    unless the Senate shall, by motion, have adjourned to some other
                                    hour appointed by such motion. He shall immediately call the
                                    Senators to order; and, on the appearance of two-thirds, shall
                                    cause the journal of the preceeding day to be read.
                                2. Nine Senators with the President, or ten in his absence,
                                    having chosen a President pro tem., shall be
                                    authorized to call a Senate, compel the attendance of the absent
                                    Senators, make an order for their fine or censure and may
                                    adjourn.
                                3. The President shall preserve order and decorum, may speak to
                                    points of order in preference to Senators, rising from his seat
                                    for that purpose; and shall decide questions of order, subject
                                    to an appeal to the Senate, by any two Senators, on which appeal
                                    no Senator shall speak more than once, unless by leave of the
                                    Senate.
                                4. The President shall rise to put a question, but may state it
                                    sitting.
                                5. Questions shall be distinctly put in this form, to-wit: "As
                                    many afc are of the opinion, that (as the question may be) say
                                    Aye," and after the affirmative voice is expressed, "as many as
                                    are of the contrary opinion, say No," If the President doubts or
                                    a division be called for, the Senate shall divide; those in the
                                    affirmative of the question, shall first rise from their seats,
                                    and afterward those in the negative.
                                6. The President shall have a general direction of the Senate
                                    Chamber. He shall have the right to name any Senator to perform
                                    the duties of the Chair, but such substitution shall not extend
                                    beyond an adjournment. He shall have the right to name any
                                    Senator to bear messages to the House.
                                7. The President shall, when the Senate is equally divided, give
                                    the casting vote.
                                8. Thirty one Standing Committees, not to exceed seven members,
                                    shall be appointed by the President of the Senate, at the
                                    commencement of each session, viz.
                                
                                    First - On Ejections.
                                    Second - On Finance.
                                    Third - On Judiciary.
                                    Fourth - On Education.
                                    Fifth - On Corporations.
                                    Sixth - On Roads.
                                    Seventh - On Benevolent Institutions of the
                                            State.
                                    Eighth - On Agriculture.
                                    Ninth - On Banks.
                                    Tenth - On Manufactures.
                                    Eleventh - On Public Printing.
                                    Twelfth - On Public Buildings.
                                    Thirteenth - On State Prisons.
                                    Fourteenth - On Canals and Internal
                                            Improvements.
                                    Fifteenth - On the State
                                        Library.
                                    Sixteenth - On Fees and
                                        Salaries.
                                    Seventeenth - On Claims.
                                    Eighteeenth - On Military
                                        Affairs.
                                    Nineteenth - On Phraseology, Arrangement and
                                            Enrollment of Bills.
                                    Twentieth - On Unfinished
                                        Business.
                                    Twenty-first - On Organization of
                                            Courts.
                                    Twenty-second - On Expenditures.
                                    Twenty-third - On Federal
                                        Relations.
                                    Twenty-fourth - On Swamp Lands.
                                    Twenty-fifth - On Temperance.
                                    Twenty-Sixth - On County and Township
                                            Business.
                                    Twenty-seventh - On Rights and Privileges of the
                                            Inhabitants of the State.
                                    Twenty-eighth - On Reformatory
                                            Institutions.
                                    Twenty-ninth - On Emigration.
                                    Thirtieth - On Insurance.
                                    Thirty-first - On Railroads.
                                
                                9. It shall be the duty of the Committee on
                                        Elections to examine and report upon the
                                    certificates and other credentials of the Senators returned to
                                    serve in the Senate, and to take into consideration all
                                    petitions, documents and evidence relating to elections, which
                                    may be referred to them by the Senate; and each of the other
                                    committees shall perform such services, and take into consid-
                                         eration all subjec
                                        t and matters required o them by the Senate.
                                10. No Committee shall sit during the sitting of the Senate
                                    without special leave.
                                11. All questions relating to the priority of business shall be
                                    decided without debate.
                                12. When any Senator is about to speak in debate, or deliver any
                                    matter to the Senate, he shall rise from his seat, respectfully
                                    address himself to the question under debate and avoid
                                    personality. No Senator shall impeach the motives of any other
                                    Senator's vote or argument.
                                13. If any Senator, in speaking or otherwise, transgress the
                                    rules of the Senate, the President shall, or any Senator may,
                                    call him to order; in which case the Senator so called to order,
                                    shall immediately sit down unless permitted to explain; and the
                                    Senate shall, if appealed to, decide the case, but without
                                    debate. If there be no appeal, the decision of the chair shall
                                    be submitted to. If the decision be in favor of the Senator
                                    called to order, he shall be at liberty to proceed. If
                                    otherwise, and the case require it, he shall be liable to the
                                    censure of the Senate.
                                14. When two or more Senators happen to rise at once, the
                                    President shall name who is to speak first.
                                15. No Senator shall speak more than twice on the same question
                                    without leave of the Senate, nor more than once until every
                                    member choosing to speak shall have spoken.
                                16. While the President is putting the question, or addressing
                                    the Senate, no Senator shall walk across or out of the house,
                                    nor when a Senator is speaking shall any entertain private
                                    discourse or pass between him and the Chair.
                                17. No Senator shall be compelled to vote on any question in the
                                    event of which he is immediately and particularly interested, or
                                    in any case where he was not present when the question was put
                                    but appearing afterwards he may, by permission, have his name
                                    called and vote, provided his vote does not change the
                                    result.
                                18. Upon a division and count of the Senate, on any question, no
                                    Senator without the bar should be counted.
                                19. Every Senator why shall be in the House when the question is
                                    put, shall give his vote unless the Senate, for special reasons
                                    excuse him. But the question of excusing a Senator shall be
                                    decided summarily without debate.
                                20. When a motion is made and seconded, it shall be stated by the
                                    President; or, being in writing, it shall be handed to the
                                    Secretary, and then read aloud before debated.
                                21. Every motion shall be reduced to writing, if the President or
                                    any Senator desire it, endorsed by the Senator introducing it,
                                    and the name of the author announced by the Secretary before
                                    reading.
                                22. After a motion is stated by the President and read, it shall
                                    be deemed in the possession of the Senate, but may be withdrawn
                                    at any time before decision or amendment.
                                23. When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received
                                    but
                                
                                    1st. To adjourn;
                                    2d. To lie on the table;
                                    3d. For the previous question.
                                    4th. To postpone indefinitely;
                                    5th. To postpone to a certain day
                                    6th. To commit; or,
                                    7th. To amend.
                                
                                Which several motions shall have precedence in the order which
                                    they stand arranged.
                                24. When a question is postponed indefinitely, the same shall not
                                    be acted upon during the session.
                                25. The previous question shall be put in this form: "Shall the
                                    main question be now put?" It shall only be admitted when
                                    demanded by a majority of the Senators voting and until it is
                                    decided, shall preclude all debate, and the introduction of all
                                    further amendments. The main question shall be the first
                                    question in order, and its effect shall be to put an end to all
                                    debate, and bring the Senate to a direct vote on the subsidiary
                                    questions then pending, in their order, and then on the main
                                    question.
                                26. Motions and reports may be committed at the pleasure of the
                                    Senate.
                                27. Any member may call for the division of a question where the
                                    sense will admit of it.
                                28. No new motion or proposition shall be admitted under color of
                                    amendment, as a substitute for the motion or proposition under
                                    debate.
                                29. When a motion has once been made and carried in the
                                    affirmative or negative, it shall be in order for any Senator of
                                    the majority to move a reconsideration thereof, on the same or
                                    any other day during the session but such motion can be
                                    entertained but once during the same session.
                                30. When the reading of a paper is called for, if any objection
                                    is made it shall be decided by a vote of the Senate.
                                31. The unfinished business in which the Senate was engaged at
                                    the last preceeding adjournment shall have the preference in the
                                    orders of the day, and no motion or any other business shall be
                                    received without special leave of the Senate until the former is
                                    disposed of.
                                32. If a question depending be lost by adjournment of the Senate
                                    and revived on  the
                                    succeeding day, no Senator who shall have spoken twice on the
                                    proceeding day, shall be permitted again to speak without
                                    leave.
                                33. Petitions, memorials, and other papers addressed to the
                                    Senate may be presented by the President, or by any Senator.
                                34. A motion to adjourn shall always be in order, except when the
                                    previous question is pending, and shall be decided without
                                    debate. The question pending on adjournment shall be resumed on
                                    re-assembling unless otherwise ordered by the Senate.
                                35. It shall be in order for the committee on
                                        Phraseology, Arrangement and Enrollment of Bills,
                                    to report at any time when no question is before the Senate.
                                36. Every bill shall be introduced by motion on leave, or by
                                    order of the Senate.
                                37. Every bill shall receive three several readings in the
                                    Senate, previous to its passage, and all bills shall be
                                    dispatched as they were introduced unless in case of
                                    urgency.
                                38. The first reading of a bill shall be for information, and if
                                    opposition be made to it, the question shall be: Shall the bill
                                    be rejected? If no opposition be made, or the question to reject
                                    is negatived, the bill shall then, if no motion be made to the
                                    contrary, be committed to a regular or select committee.
                                39 Upon the second reading of a bill the President shall state
                                    that it is ready for commitment, amendment or engrossment: and
                                    if committed then the question shall be; Whether to a select or
                                    standing committee or to a Committee of the Whole
                                        Senate? If to a Committee of the Whole
                                        Senate, the Senate shall determine on what days;
                                    but if the bill be ordered to be engrossed the Senate shall
                                    appoint the day when it shall be read the third time. It shall
                                    be in order to read bills on their second reading by title, for
                                    reference, and, when so referred, it shall be in order for the
                                    committee to which they shall be referred to report on the same
                                    with or without amendments, and the bill, when returned shall be
                                    upon the second reading, and shall then, with the amendments
                                    proposed, if any, be read through by sections.
                                40. Every report of a committee upon a bill, which shall not be
                                    considered at the time of making the same, or laid on the table
                                    by a vote of the Senate, shall stand upon the general orders
                                    with a bill, and entered on the Journal.
                                41. After commitment and report thereof to the Senate, or at any
                                    time before its passage, a bill may be re-committed.
                                42. No amendment by way of a rider shall be received to a bill on
                                    its third reading.
                                43. When a bill shall pass, it shall be certified by the
                                    Secretary noting at the foot thereof the day of its passage.
                                44. In forming a Committee of the Whole
                                    Senate, the President leaving the chair shall appoint
                                    a chairman to preside.
                                45. Upon bills committed to a committee of the Whole
                                        Senate the bill shall be first read throughout by
                                    the Secretary, and then again read and debated by clauses,
                                    leaving the preamble to be last considered. The body of the bill
                                    shall not be defaced or interlined, but all amendments, noting
                                    the page and line, shall be duly entered by the Secretary on a
                                    separate paper, as the same shall be agreed to by the Committee,
                                    and so reported to the Senate; after report, the bill shall
                                    a-gain be subject to be debated and amended by clauses, before a
                                    question to engross it be taken.
                                46. All questions, whether in Committee or in the Senate, shall
                                    be put in the order in which they are moved, except that in
                                    filling up blanks, the largest sum and longest time shall be
                                    first put.
                                47. No motion or proposition for a tax or charge upon the people
                                    shall be discussed the day on which it is made or offered; and
                                    every such proposition shall receive its first discussion in a
                                        Committee of the Whole Senate.
                                48. The rules of proceeding in the Senate shall be observed in a
                                        Committee of the Whole Senate, so far as
                                    they may be applicable, except the rule limiting the time of
                                    speaking, but no Senator shall speak twice to any question until
                                    every Senator choosing to speak shall have spoken.
                                49. No standing rule or order of the Senate shall be rescinded or
                                    changed without one day's notice being given of the motion there
                                    for.
                                50. No Senator shall absent himself from the service of the
                                    Senate, unless he have leave, or be sick and unable to
                                    attend.
                                51. Each Officer of the Senate shall take an oath for the true
                                    and faithful discharge of the duties of his office, to the best
                                    of his knowledge and abilities; and shall be deemed to continue
                                    in office until another is chosen.
                                52. It shall be the duty of the Doorkeeper to attend the Senate
                                    during its sittings; execute all its demands and process to him
                                    given and directed; give notice of and carry all messages,
                                    either public or private, he may be required to carry; keep the
                                    Senate chamber and furniture clean and in due order, and at all
                                    times keep good and sufficient fires when the same may be
                                    necessary; when requested to call a Senator, he should do so by
                                    name.
                                53 When a reference is made of any subject to a standing
                                    committee, the Senator introducing the same shall be a member of
                                    such committee during its
                                    deliberations thereon, but shall have no power to vote.
                                54. The daily order of transacting business shall be as follows,
                                    viz: 1st. Reading and correcting the Journal of the proceeding
                                    day. 2nd. Introduction of petitions, memorials and
                                    remonstrances. 3d. Reports from Standing Committees. 5th.
                                    Resolutions of the Senate. 6th. Joint resolutions. 7th. Bills.
                                    And 8th. Orders of the day. First, Messages
                                    from the House, requiring action on the part of the Senate. Second. Bills on second reading. Third. Bills on third reading.
                                55. After a bill has passed, and not before, the title may be
                                    announced.
                                56. When a bill or joint resolution shall have failed for want of
                                    a constitutional majority, but shall have received the vote of
                                    the majority of the members present, it shall be subject to be
                                    called up in its order, at the instance of any Senator, on any
                                    subsequent day, but when it shall have failed to receive the
                                    votes of a majority of the members present, it shall only be
                                    again called up by a motion to reconsider the previous vote.
                                Mr. SMITH moved that one hundred-copies of the rules, together
                                    with the Constitution of the State, and the Standing Committees
                                    as reported this morning be printed for the use of the
                                    Senate.
                                Mr. SCOTT did not see the necessity for printing the
                                    Constitution.
                                The motion was agreed to.
                            
                            
                                JOINT CONVENTION.
                                Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Lawrence, called up his concurrent resolution,
                                    submitted just before the adjournment yesterday afternoon for a
                                    Joint Convention of the two Houses, for the purpose of electing
                                    a State Librarian, Prison Directors and Asylum Trustees.
                                Mr. BELL and Mr. HARNEY, moved to amend the resolution by
                                    providing for the election of two Directors of the Prison,
                                    south, instead of one - the first to succeed B. F. Hill, and the
                                    second to succeed Jno. Kirk.
                                Mr. FRIEDLEY thought there could be no question, but that only
                                    one is to be elected; for in a communication from the Secretary
                                    of State, that is stated to be a fact.
                                Mr. HORFEY recited the history of he case; coming to
                                    the conclusion, as a matter of law, of right and of policy, all
                                    blended together, that there are two vacancies to be filled in
                                    the Directorship of the Southern State Prison.
                                Mr. FRIEDLEY moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                                The motion was rejected - yeas 23, nays 25.
                                Messrs. DAGGY and THOMPSON explaining that the amendment will do
                                    no harm, while it is a necessary one if the views of the Senator
                                    from Montgomery, [Mr Harney,] are correct.
                                Mr. SMITH moved to refer the resolution and amendment to Messrs.
                                    Harney, LaRue and Friedley, of Lawrence, with instructions to
                                    report the law in the case.
                                It was so ordered by consent.
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. SMITH introduced a bill [S. 62] for an act to amend section
                                    77 of the general practice act [so that all frivilous, all
                                    surplusage, tautology and irrevalent matter shall be set aside
                                    when pointed out by the party aggrieved; and all defense,
                                    including general denial shall, on motion, be rejected when it
                                    is made to appear by answer to interrogatories on file in the
                                    cause that the defences are false or sham; also when the same is
                                    shown by affidavit, unless the party making such defenses shall
                                    support the same by affidavit.]
                                It was read and referred to the Committee on the
                                        Judiciary under the rules just adopted.
                                Mr. HOUGH introduced a bill [S. 63] for an act empowering the
                                    Board of Trustees of any incorporated town in this State, by
                                    ordinance to prohibit the sale, bartering or giving away of
                                    intoxicating liquors, within the corporated limits of said
                                    towns, to be drank upon the premises, wherever sold, by any
                                    person without a license, or permit thereunto authorizing him,
                                    first obtained by grant of, and issued upon the direction of
                                    said Board, and to prescribe the notice and collections upon
                                    which such license or permit shall be applied for and granted,
                                    and to fix a penalty for the violation of such ordinance, and
                                    all penalties collected for violations of such ordinance, a part
                                    of the tuition fund of the common school of the town in which
                                    such ordinance is ordained, and providing for the collection of
                                    the penalties for violations of such ordinance by civil action
                                    in the Circuit Court of the county in which such town is
                                    situated, and declaring an emergency.
                                It was read and referred to Committee on
                                        Corporations.
                            
                            
                                STATIONERY.
                                Mr. JOHNSTON, of Parke, submitted a resolution directing the
                                    Secretary of State to distribute to members of the Senate such
                                    amount of printed letter-heads, as he may have on hand.
                                Mr. SMITH made an ineffectual motion to lay the resolution on the
                                    table.
                                It was adopted - yeas 36, nays 31.
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. GOODING introduced a bill [S. 64] for an act to hold
                                    principals responsible  for
                                    injuries to their employees by the negligence or incapacity of
                                    co-employees in the same line of employment in the same manner,
                                    and to the same extent, as if the injuries had happened to
                                    persons not in their employment.
                                It was read and referred to the Judiciary
                                        committee.
                                Mr. RHODES introduced a bill [S. 65] for an act to prevent injury
                                    to buggies and carriages and other vehicles at religious
                                    meetings, and other public gatherings.
                                It was read and referred to the Judiciary
                                        committee.
                            
                            
                                WOMEN'S TEMPERANCE UNION.
                                Mr. RINGO submitted a concurrent resolution for a joint
                                    convention of the two Houses of this General Assembly, from 3
                                    1/2 to 5 o'clock, p. m., January 31st, for the receiving of
                                    petitions and hearing addresses from Mrs. Governor DAVID
                                    WALLACE, of Indianapolis, and Mrs. JULIA AVELINE, of Fort
                                    Wayne.
                                Mr. BELL, not out of any disrespect to these parties nor the
                                    cause they advocate, moved to lay the resolution on the
                                    table.
                                The motion was rejected - yeas 10, nays 38.
                                The concurrent resolution was then adopted.
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. MAJOR introduced a bill [S. 66] for an act regulating the
                                    fees of officers, providing penalties for its violation, and
                                    repealing certain acts therein named. [An entire new bill,
                                    proposing to reduce the fees of the Secretary of State, all
                                    county officers, and Prosecuting Attorneys, from one-third to
                                    one-half below what they are at present.]
                                It was read and referred to the committee on fees and
                                    salaries.
                                Mr. GIVAN introduced a bill [S. 67] for an act to repeal section
                                    fifty-one of the act of March 3, 1855, authorizing and
                                    regulating the business of general banking. [Allowing the
                                    Auditor of State $1,500 and the Treasurer of State $800 for
                                    managing the affairs of the free banks of the State.]
                                Mr. GIVAN moved for the suspension of the constitutional rule
                                    that the bill may be pressed to its final reading now.
                                Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Lawrence, and others objecting to such
                                    haste.
                                Mr. GIVAN withdrew the motion, and his bill was referred to the
                                        committee on Banks under the rules
                                    adopted this afternoon.
                                Mr. JOHNSTON of Parke, introduced a bill [S, 68] for an act
                                    supplemental to "An Act providing for the voluntary assignment
                                    of personal and real property in trust for the benefit of
                                    creditors and regulating the mode of administering the same,"
                                    approved March 5, 1859.
                                It was read and referred to the Committee on the
                                        Judiciary.
                                And then the Senate adjourned till ten o'clock to-morrow
                                    morning.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        TUESDAY, January 12,
                            1875.
                        The House met at 9 o'clock, a. m., and the reading of Journal having been
                            dispensed with -
                        On motion, Mr. MATTHEW A. SMITH, a representative elect for the counties
                            of Delaware and Jay, (who first appeared in the Hall this morning) came
                            forward and was sworn in by the Speaker.
                        Messrs. Keightley and Kennedy, of Marion, were granted leaves of absence
                            till tomorrow; and Mr. Glasgow till next week, on account of
                            illness.
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            Mr. LANHAM obtained the leave and' introduced a bill [H. R. 47]
                                fixing the per diem and mileage of members of the General Assembly,
                                providing that they shall furnish their own stationery and receive
                                compensation therefor from the State, and repealing, etc. [Five
                                dollars a day - five dollars for twenty-five miles, mileage.]
                            Mr. HELLER introduced a bill [H. R. 48] for an act to appropriate one
                                hundred thousand dollars to defray the expenses of the regular
                                session of the General Assembly for 1875.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS of Brown submitted a resolution that the Doorkeeper be
                                instructed to procure one hundred copies of Gavin & Hord's
                                revised Statutes of Indiana, and lay one on each member's desk for
                                his use during the present session, and that each member be required
                                to return the same to the proper authorities at the close of the
                                session, and on his failure so to do, the price thereof shall be
                                deducted from his per diem.
                            After debate by Messrs. Trusler, Heller, Kennedy of Montgomery,
                                Marvin of Boone and others.
                            Mr. DARNALL submitted a substitute which was accepted and adopted to
                                the following effect: That the Doorkeeper be requested to call on
                                the Secretary of State to furnish one hundred copies of the Revised
                                Statutes of the State of Indiana for the use of the House of
                                Representatives; that the same be placed in the State Library; that
                                each member may obtain one by having the same charged to him at its
                                cost price, and if he return it, etc.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS of Brown introduced a bill [H. R. 49] to amend section
                                1, and also  to repeal sections
                                2 and 3 of the Assessment actmaking taxes payable in one
                                installment.
                            Also, a bill [H. R. 50] for an act to provide for equal and uniform
                                rates of freight upon Railroads, prescribing penalties for violation
                                thereof.
                            Also, a resolution directing the Postmaster of the House to confer
                                with the publishers of the Indianapolis Sentinel and the
                                Indianapolis Journal to report the price per copy for which they
                                will furnish their papers to members of the House of
                                Representatives, and also the price per copy wrapped and
                                stamped.
                            Mr. HAVENS opposed the resolution and gave considerations which would
                                so govern him, that he would procure for himself at his own expense
                                such newspapers as he might require during the session.
                            On motion of Mr. LAW, its further consideration was indefinetely
                                postponed.
                            Mr. CANTLEY introduced a bill [H. R 51] for an act to abolish the
                                Grand Jury system of the State of Indiana, and authorizing and
                                empowering Prosecuting Attorneys to make presentments on
                                information, to enforce the attendance of prosecuting witnesses,
                                etc.
                            Sir. BENCE submitted a resolution that a, committee of three be
                                appointed to revise the Rules and Orders for the government of the
                                House of Representatives.
                            On motion of Mr. WOOD, it was indefinitely postponed.
                            On motion of Mr. BENCE, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Benevolent and Scientific Institutions
                                            be instructed to prepare a bill that shall provide for
                                            the sale of eighty acres of the Insane Hospital lands,
                                            and apply the proceeds to the erection of an asylum for
                                            the incurably insane.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion of Mr. BELLOWS, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That all petitions presented
                                            and bills introduced into this House having regard to
                                            fees and salaries, be referred to the Committee
                                                on Fees and Salaries.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. CALDWELL introduced a bill [S. 52] for an act to amend an act to
                                amend sections 15 and 16 of the act for the incorporation of towns,
                                approved June 11, 1852; and providing for the election of Town
                                Marshals by the Town Trustees, approved March 17, 1873.
                            Mr. OSBORNE introduced a bill [H. R. 53] for an act relating to the
                                contracts of married women, and declaring such contracts binding in
                                certain cases.
                            Also a bill [H. R. 54] to amend section 315 of the civil practice and
                                procedure act, of June 18, 1852.
                            Also a bill [H, R. 55] for an act to amend sections 22 and 57 of an
                                act for the incorproation of towns, approved June 11,
                                1853.
                            Mr. WATERMAN introduced a bill [H. R. 56] (title not reported)
                                regulating the employment of teachers in the common schools.
                            Also a bill [H. R. 57] (title not reported) regulating the erection
                                of district school houses.
                            Mr. DAVIS submitted a resolution which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means, to enquire into
                                the expediency of providing by law for the exemption from seizure
                                and sale for taxes three hundred dollars to the head of every family
                                or household - the same as now exempted on the part of debtors - to
                                report by bill or otherwise.
                            On motion of Mr. TRUSLER it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That all bills in relation to
                                            the subject of Temperance be referred to the
                                                Committee on Temperance.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. CLARK introduced a bill [H. R. 58] for an act authorizing
                                Justices of the Peace and Mayors of cities in certain cases, to
                                issue process and compel witnesses to testify under oath as to their
                                knowledge, of the commission of any crime in the county, etc.
                            Also a bill [H. R. 59] for an act to amend section two of the act
                                regulating the convening and adjourning of Grand Juries, approved
                                March 10, 1853.
                            Also a bill [H. R. 60] for an act to amend section two of the act to
                                provide for the uniform assessment of property, and the collection
                                of taxes thereon, approved Dec. 21 1872.
                            Mr, McCORD introduced a bill [H. R. 61] for an act to amend the tenth
                                section of the act to provide for the election and qualification of
                                Justices of the Peace, approved June 9, 1852.
                            A message from the Senate announced the passage in that body of the
                                session appropriation bill.
                            Mr. RAGAN introduced a bill [H, R. 62] for an act to limit the power
                                of township Trustees in contracting debts, and setting apart public
                                days for the transaction of township business. [Not to exceed six
                                hundred dollars, excepting, etc.]
                            Mr. FORKNER introduced a bill [H, R. 63] for an act to repeal an act
                                creating the office of County Superintendent of Public Instruction,
                                and creating the office of County School Examiner.
                            Mr. DAVIDSON introduced a bill [H. R. 64] for an act to create the
                                (blank) Judicial Circuit, fixing the time of holding courts therein,
                                appointing a Judge and Prosecuting Attorney therefor, etc, [The
                                counties of Johnson and Jennings.]
                            
                            Mr. LANHAM introduced a bill [H. R. 65] for an act fixing the pay of
                                County Commissioners, repealing all laws conflicting, and declaring
                                an emergency. [Four dollars for each day's service.]
                            Mr. HARPER introduced a bill [H. R. 66] for an act declaring any
                                assumption to to pay attorney's fees contracted in any
                                bill of exchange, acceptance, draft, promissory note or other such
                                written evidence of agreement null and void.
                            Mr. Speaker TURPIE (Mr. Davis in the Chair,) presented a memorial of
                                soldiers and officers of the Mexican War, asking for instructions
                                for a pension of eight dollars a month for all such soldiers who
                                served sixty days, which was read and referred to the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations.
                            Mr. Speaker TURPIE introduced a bill [H. R. 67] for an act to
                                authorize the change of name and style of certain Educational
                                Institutions organized under the provisions of any Special Charter
                                granted by the Legislature of this State. [May make such change any
                                time before 1879.]
                            Mr. KENNEDY of Montgomery introduced a bill [H. R. 68] for an act to
                                provide for the improvement and repairs of highways, repealing all
                                laws inconsistant therewith, and declaring an emergency for the
                                immediate taking effect of the same. [Township Trustees to be
                                Supervisors, etc,]
                            Also, a bill [H. R. 69] for an act authorizing Boards of County
                                Commissioners to levy and make appropriations to construct or repair
                                roads.
                            Mr. KENNEDY of Morgan introduced a bill [H. R. 70] for an act to
                                define bribery in certain cases, and to prescribe punishment for
                                persons bribed to vote.
                            Also the petition of Monrovia Grange of the Patrons of Husbandry,
                                praying for such an amendment of the temperance law as shall
                                recognize drunkenness as a crime: which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance.
                            Mr. MEGINITY introduced a bill [H. R. 71] for an act to limit the
                                jurisdiction of grand juries and justices of the peace in criminal
                                cases, repealing, etc.
                            On motion of Mr. THOMAS it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Railroads be instructed to inquire into
                                            the expediency of so regulating the rates of freight and
                                            passengers on Railroads as to possibly equalize the
                                            rates of local and through freight in a way not
                                            detrimental to the local business of the country, and
                                            report by bill or otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That, in the judgment of this
                                            House, there is no necessity for increasing the State
                                            indebtedness or the taxation, and that expenses should
                                            be reduced to the lowest point consistent with a proper
                                            administration of public affairs.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. CRUMPACKER introduced a bill [H. R. 72] for an act to compel
                                Railroad Companies to fence their right of of way, and
                                providing penalties for the violation thereof.
                            Mr. BURSON submitted a preamble and resolution, alleging the large
                                indebtedness of the State, that eight cents levy on the one hundred
                                dollars is barely sufficient to defray the ordinary expenses and
                                interest on the State debt, and the requirements of humanity, for
                                the erection of an asylum for the incurably insane; and resolving,
                                therefore, that this House will take no step just now for the
                                erection of a permanent State House; which -
                            On motion of Mr. DARNALL, was laid on the table.
                            Mr. EDWARDS submitted a joint resolution for instructions to the
                                State Congressional delegation for a law granting without favor or
                                discrimination to all who served sixty days in Mexican War, a
                                pension of eight dollars per month, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations.
                            Mr. ROMINE introduced a bill [H. E. 73] for an act in relation to the
                                continuance of civil causes, and to dispense with the re examining
                                of witnesses.
                            Mr. LEEPER introduced a bill [H. R. 74] for an act for the protection
                                of wild game, and defining the time in which the same may be killed,
                                etc.
                            Mr. TAYLOR, of Tipton,introduced a bill [H. R. 75] for an act
                                supplemental to the act concerning the partition of lands, etc.,
                                approved May 20, 1852.
                            Mr. PFAFLIN introduced a bill [H.R.76] to regulate the sale of
                                spirituous, vinous, malt and other intoxicating liquors, to prevent
                                minors from purchasing the same, to provide for the transfer of
                                license, to prohibit the adulteration of liquors, to repeal all
                                former laws contrary to the provisions of this act, and declaring an
                                emergency.
                            Also, a bill [H. R. 77] for an act providing for the publication of
                                official matters in general and particular, and declaring an
                                emergency. [Authorizing legal publications in any German newspaper
                                published in any county of the State having a population of
                                20,000.]
                            Mr. MILLER, of Vanderburg, submitted a joint resolution [H. R. 4]
                                instructing our congressional delegation to vote for the rill now
                                pending in Congress, known as the 3-65 convertable bonds bill,
                                introduced by Judge Kelly, of Pennsylvania.
                            On motion of Mr. HELLER, it was laid on the table.
                            
                            Mr. HAVENS introduced a bill [H.R.78] for an act to amend the first
                                section of the act to exempt property from sale in certain cases,
                                approved February 17, 1852, and to fix the amount of property exempt
                                from execution at $500.
                            Mr. PATE submitted a resolution declaring it as the sense of this
                                House that any further action at this time in regard to the farce in
                                Louisiana is uncalled for; which,
                            On motion of Mr. BENCE was laid on the table.
                            Mr. HARRIS, of Wayne, introduced a bill [H. R. 79] for an act to
                                amend section 83 of the act providing for the settlement of
                                decedents, estates, etc., approved June 17, 1852.
                            Mr. COLLINS introduced a bill [H. R, 80] for an act to amend section
                                16 and 29 of the act concerning real property and the alienation
                                thereof, approved May 6, 1852, and declaring an emergency.
                            Also, a bill [H. R. 81] for an act to amend section 22 of the act for
                                the incorporation of towns, defining their powers, providing for the
                                election of officers thereof, etc., approved June 11, 1852.
                            On motion of Mr. HORN, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the committee
                                                on temperance be instructed to report as
                                            to the expediency of drafting a law or the subject of
                                            providing for the application of all license fees to the
                                            erection and maintain-ance of a hospital for
                                            the incurably insane, till the year 1877, and thereafter
                                            to the school fund.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HORN introduced a bill [H. R. 82] to provide for the erection of
                                a monument to the memory of the officers and soldiers who fell at
                                the battle of Tippecanoe. [It proposed to appropriate $6,245.88, the
                                unexpended balance of the appropriation to enclose the battle ground
                                - the Governor and officers of State authorized to confer with the
                                authorities of the States of Kentucky and Ohio and to ask their
                                assistance in the erection of such a monument.]
                            The foregoing bills were severally read the first time and passed to
                                the second reading.
                            The SPEAKER. The counties and districts having been called over twice
                                during the present session, the Chair would inform the House that it
                                will not be done again without express order.
                            On motion of Mr. TRUSLER, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That all bills and
                                            resolutions relating to education, be referred to the
                                                committee on education.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            EXPENSES OF THE SESSION.
                            The SPEAKER now took up and announced for consideration, the bill [S.
                                33] appropriating $125,000 to defray the expenses of the 49th
                                session of General Assembly of the State of Indiana.
                            It was read the first time, and
                            On motion of Mr. KENNEDY, of Montgomery, (the rule and constitutional
                                provision being suspended for the purpose) it was read the second
                                time by title.
                            On the motion of Mr. HELLER, it was in like manner passed to the
                                third reading, read the third time, and finally passed the House of
                                Representatives without amendment - yeas 82, nays 14.
                            The House then took a recess till two o'clock, p. m.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The SPEAKER resumed at two o'clock, p. m., and announced a change of
                                places by the Chairmen of the two committees. Mr. McMichael,
                                chairman of the committee on engrossed bills,
                                being a practical printer, takes the place of chairman of the
                                    committee on printing, and Mr. Leeper takes
                                the place of Mr. McMichael, as chairman of the committee on
                                    engrossed bills.
                            On motion of Mr. KENNEDY, of Montgomery, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That a committee of five be
                                            appointed to inquire into the expenses connected with
                                            our judicial system, and report thereon to the House as
                                            they may deem it best.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion of Mr. KENNEDY, of Morgan, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the committee
                                                on temperance shall adopt a clause in the
                                            bill they shall report, empowering a majority of
                                            citizens in any town, etc, to remonstrate and prevent
                                            license.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HORN submitted a preamble and resolution, reciting
                                dissatisfaction among owner of certain real estate in regard to
                                taxation, and resolving that the proper committee report whether it
                                is not lawful to provide for the assessment of lands below their par
                                value, which was referred to the committee on rights and
                                    privileges.

                            
                                THE SPEAKER'S TABLE.
                                On motion of Mr. CLARK, the House resumed consideration of the
                                    business on the Speaker's table.
                                Bills of the House of Representatives, numbered from 1 to 46,
                                    inclusive, were read the second time and referred to the
                                    appropriate committees.
                                On motion of Mr. TAYLOR, of Tipton, the contested election case
                                    of Taylor vs. Waterman, was referred to the committee
                                        on elections, with instructions to report thereon
                                    without delay.
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. NASH introduced a bill [H. R. 83]  fixing the per diem of members of
                                    the General Assembly, providing that they shall furnish their
                                    own stationery, shall have allowance for mileage, and repealing
                                    all conflicting laws. [$6 per diem $4 mileage.]
                                Mr. KENNEDY, of Montgomery, introduced a bill [H. R. 84] for an
                                    act to amend sections 132 and 374 of the civil practice act of
                                    June 18, 1852.
                                Mr. HARRIS, of Wayne, presented the memorial of the bar of Wayne
                                    county, for another court of law in said county, which was
                                    referred to the committee on the organization of
                                        courts.
                                On motion of Mr. FORKNER, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the
                                                  committee on the organization of courts
                                                  of justice take into consideration the
                                                organization of criminal and probate courts in this
                                                State, establishing the same, and dividing the State
                                                into circuits.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. CLARK introduced a bill [H. R. 85] for an act prescribing the
                                    jurisdiction and powers of justices of the peace in civil cases
                                    and in cases of misdemeanor, and defining the duties of
                                    prosecuting attorneys in cases of misdemeanor.
                                Mr. DAVIS introduced a bill H. R, 86] to abolish the 27th
                                    judicial criminal circuit (for the counties of Clark and Floyd,)
                                    and criminal courts therein, and transferring all cases from
                                    said criminal courts to the civil courts, etc.
                                On motion of Mr. MARVIN, of Boone, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the credentials of
                                                the members of this House be referred to the
                                                  committee on elections, and
                                                that members be requested to hand them to the
                                                chairman thereof.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. CLARK introduced a bill [H. R. 87] for an act to amend the
                                    14th section of an act to amend the 14th section of an act to
                                    limit the number of grand jurors, approved December 30,
                                    1865.
                                Mr. HELLER introduced a bill [H. R. 88] for an act to amend an
                                    act for the incorporation of towns, defining their powers, etc.,
                                    approved June 11, 1852, and declaring an emergency. [It amends
                                    section 5.]
                                Mr. KEIGHTLEY introduced a bill [H. R. 89] for an act to
                                    authorize the formation of boards of trade, etc.
                                Mr. HAVENS introduced a bill [H.R.90] to amend section 561 of the
                                    practice act of June 18, 1852, regulating appeals in civil
                                    cases, and regulating appeals to the supreme court of the State
                                    of Indiana.
                                Mr. MARTIN, of Franklin, introduced a bill [H R. 91] for an act
                                    fixing the mileage and per diem of members of the General
                                    Assembly, providing that they shall furnish their own
                                    stationery, repealing all former laws on the subject, and
                                    declaring an emergency. [$6 a day - $5 for each 100 miles
                                    mileage.]
                                The House then adjourned. 
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    VOLUME FIFTEEN.
                    INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, January 13, 1875.
                        
                        The Senate met pursuant to adjournment - Lieutenant Governor SEXTON in
                            the chair.
                        The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's session were being read, when
                            -
                        Mr. SMITH moved to dispense with the further reading thereof.
                        Mr. DAGGY objecting remarked that he hoped the motion would not prevail.
                            We ought to hear the journal read. It is not fair to send it out as a
                            record without its being read every morning.
                        Mr. SMITH withdrew his motion, and -
                        The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read and
                            approved.
                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
                            Announced the passage by that body of the joint resolution [H. R. 1]
                                with reference to military usurpation in Louisiana, described on
                                page 12 of these reports.
                        
                        
                            THE PUBLIC PRINTING.
                            Mr. SCOTT introduced a joint resolution [S. 2] to make temporary
                                provision for the public printing. [It provides that the Secretary
                                of State, with the advice and consent of the chairman of the
                                    Printing Committee of the two Houses, shall
                                contract for the same until such time as other provision shall be
                                made by law.] He moved, after its first reading, for a dispention of
                                the constitutional restriction, that it may be passed to the final
                                vote now.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR explained that it is precisely the authority
                                upon which the public printing has been done for the past two
                                years.
                            The motion [Mr. Scott's] was agreed to - yeas 46, nays 0 - and the
                                joint resolution was read the second and third times, and finally
                                passed the Senate by yeas 47, nays 0.
                            Mr. SKINNER, from the Select Committee thereon, returned the bills
                                relating to the pay of members of the General Assembly, with a
                                recommendation that they be referred to the Committee on
                                    Fees and Salaries.
                            The report was concurred in.
                            Mr. SLEETH submitted a resolution which was adopted requiring the
                                Auditor of State to report to the Senate all sums of money received
                                by him on account of fees from home and from foreign insurance
                                companies.
                            Mr. DAGGY submitted a resolution for a request of Senators that the
                                titles of bills may be made as brief as possible, so as not to
                                unnecessarily encumber the records with lengthy titles, words and
                                phrases that are useless.
                            On motion by Mr. SMITH it was laid on the table.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            Mr. BUNYAN introduced a bill [S. 69] for an act compelling railroad
                                corporations to fence their tracks, and providing penalties for the
                                violation thereof.
                            It was read the first time, and referred to the Committee on
                                    Railroads.
                            Mr SARNIGHAUSEN introduced a bill [S. 70] for an act in relation to
                                promissory notes, bank checks and bills of exchange, to designate
                                the holidays to be observed in the presentation and acceptance of
                                the same, and declaring an emergency.
                            It was read and referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                            Mr. HAWORTH introduced a bill [S. 71] for an act amending the act for
                                the-protection of fish, approved February 27, 1861 [Persons may
                                seine fish in the season when fish are allowed to be caught.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges of the Inhabitants of this
                                State.
                            
                            Mr. SLEETH introduced a bill [S. 72] for an act to amend section 3,
                                to render taxation for common school purposes uniform, to provide
                                for the education of colored children, etc., approved May 13,
                                1869.
                            [In cases where they cannot be accommodated with separate schools,
                                they may attend the common schools of their respective districts
                                with white children.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Education.
                            Mr. THOMPSON introduced a bill [S. 73] for an act authorizing husband
                                and wife to testify for or against each other in any civil or
                                criminal judicial proceeding concerning any fact in which any other
                                competent witness may testify, and to repeal all laws in conflict
                                with this act, and declaring an emergence. [Provided, they shall not
                                be compelled to testify against each other.]
                            It was read a first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. CARD WELL introduced a bill [S. 74] for an act fixing the
                                salaries of certain officers therein named, providing penalties for
                                violation of their duties, and repealing all laws inconsistent
                                herewith. [Placing each county officers on specific salaries, based
                                upon the population of the county.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Fees and Salaries.
                            Mr. BEARDSLEY introduced a bill [S. 75] for an act to establish city
                                courts in cities not county seats and having a population of over
                                5,000 inhabitants, declaring their jurisdiction and the mode of
                                procedure therein. - It was read the first time and referred to the
                                    Committee on Organization of Courts of
                                    Justice.
                            Mr. WILSON introduced a bill [S. 76] for an act concerning real
                                property and the alienation thereof, approved May 6, 1852.
                                [Providing that when real estate is conveyed to husband and wife
                                jointly they shall hold as other tenants in common and not as joint
                                tenants, so that upon the death of either the other shall not take
                                the whole estate.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. HUMPHREYS introduced a bill [S. 77] for an act to provide for the
                                trial of certain cases in which changes of venue are granted.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. HUMPHREYS introduced a bill [S. 78] to repeal the dog law of May
                                11, 1861.It was read the first time and referred to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture.
                            Mr. BELL introduced a bill [S. 79] for the inspection of coal and
                                petroleum oils and all fluids for illuminating purposes, prescribing
                                penalties for the violation of this act, providing for the
                                appointment of inspectors and deputies, prescribing their duties and
                                penalties for trading in any way in articles that they are appointed
                                to inspect.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Insurance.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR laid before the Senate a communication from,
                                the Auditor of State in answer to a resolu- of the Senate
                                asking for the cost of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS since
                                1860.
                            Senate bills introduced yesterday before the adoption of the rules of
                                order were read by title only and referred to appropriate
                                committees.
                            The Senate then took a recess till 2' o'clock p. m.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the Chair at 2 o'clock, p. m.
                            
                                THE GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                On motion of Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Scott, the Senate proceeded to the
                                    consideration of the Governor's message with a view to referring
                                    it to appropriate committees.
                                On motion of Mr BOONE, the Senate resolved itself into a
                                        Committee of the Whole, (Mr. Boone in the
                                    Chair.)
                                On motion of Mr. SARNIGHAUSEN, the Committees on
                                        Education, Judiciary,
                                        Federal Relations,
                                        Printing, Temperance,
                                        Agriculture, Reformatory
                                        Institutions, Swamp Lands,
                                        County and Township Business,
                                        Canals, Benevolent
                                        Institutions, Fees and
                                    Salaries, Railroads, and
                                        Military Affairs, were severally directed
                                    to consider the subjects in the Governor's message having
                                    reference to the matters indicated by the name of the committee.
                                    That part of the message referring to Domestic Relations was
                                    referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                        Privileges. That part referring to Legislative
                                    Expenses was referred to the Committee on Fees and
                                        Salaries. That part referring to Finance and
                                    Taxation, to the Committee on Finance. That
                                    part referring to the Purdue University, to the
                                        Committee on Agriculture.
                                Mr. LARUE made an ineffectual motion to change this reference to
                                    the Committee on Education.
                                On motion of Mr. DYKEMAN, that part concerning the Tippecanoe
                                    Battle Ground was referred to the Committee on Federal
                                        Relations.
                                On motion by Mr. FIEDLEY, of Scott, that portion concerning the
                                    State Prisons  was referred
                                    to the Committee on that subject.
                                He moved for the reference to the Committee on Rights
                                        and Privileges that portion which relates to the
                                    re-apportionment of the State.
                                Mr. PEED moved to amend by substituting the Committee on
                                        Elections.
                                Lieutenant Governor SEXTON said: I think that portion of the
                                    message should go to the Judiciary Committee.
                                    He expresses serious doubt about the right of the Legislature to
                                    make any change in the apportionment law, and for that reason
                                    above all it should be referred to the Judiciary
                                        Committee, which of right has charge of that
                                    subject. I move to amend the amendment so as to refer that
                                    portion to the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                    for the purpose of having that point stopped or decided.
                                The amendment to the amendment was agreed to.
                                The question now recurring on the amendment as amended -
                                Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Scott, accepted it, and the reference was
                                    ordered as indicated by the Lieutenant Governor.
                                On motion of Mr. JOHNSON, of Floyd, that portion of the
                                    Governor's message relating to Immigration and Statistics was
                                    referred to the committee on that subject.
                                On motion of Mr. STOCKSLAGER, that portion relating to the
                                    building of a new State House was referred to the
                                        Committee on Public Buildings.
                                        Committee on Public Buildings.
                                On motion of Mr. SARNIGHAUSEN, the committee rose, the chairman
                                    reported progress to the Senate, (the Lieutenant Governor in the
                                    chair,) and asked to be discharged from the further
                                    consideration of the subject.
                                The report of the Committee of the Whole was
                                    concurred in by the Senate.
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. STOCKSLAGER introduced a bill [S. 80] for an act to amend
                                    section 1 of the act regulating general elections in this State,
                                    [So as to provide that State and township elections shall take
                                    place on the Tuesday next after the first Monday in November, to
                                    correspond with the act of Congress approved in February, 1872,
                                    fixing that day for holding elections for members of Congress in
                                    ail the States.]
                                It was read the first time and referred to the Committee
                                        on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. SCOTT and Mr. HARNEY regarding this bill as being in conflict
                                    with the State Constitution - Section 14 of Article II.
                                Mr. CHAPMAN introduced a bill [S. 81] to transfer from the office
                                    of Auditor of State to the general fund of the treasury certain
                                    sums of money held from free banks that have been closed up, and
                                    other matters in relation thereto.
                                It was read the first time and referred to the Committee
                                        on Finance.
                                And then the Senate adjourned till 10 o'clock to-morrow
                                    morning.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, January 13, 1875.
                        
                        The SPEAKER called the House to order at 9 o'clock, a. m.
                        The Rev, Dr. Day, being introduced and announced for the prayer.
                        On motion of Mr. COLLINS, the reading of the journal of yesterday was
                            dispensed with.
                        Mr. HARPER, obtaining leave for the purpose, introduced a bill [H. R. 92]
                            for an act compelling railroad corporations to fence their tracks, and
                            providing penalties, which was read and passed to the second
                            reading.
                        
                            MILITARY USURPATIONS IN LOUISIANA.
                            On motion of Mr. HAVENS, his joint resolution [H. R. 1] was taken up
                                and considered on its final passage.
                            Mr. TRUSLER demanded the previous question, but withdrew it for -
                            Mr. HAVENS, who said he took the floor in no spirit of
                                spread-eagleism. A great deal that has been said here, such as the
                                charge of wasting the time of the House he would not stop to answer.
                                But there were some things in the debate on this resolution the
                                other day which he desired to set himself right about. The gentleman
                                from Montgomery, (Mr. Kennedy,) was eloquent in praise of his party,
                                boasting that they had feed four millions of slaves. Then the
                                gentleman went off to Kansas to notice the dispersion of an unlawful
                                assembly there, as a parallel to this in Louisiana, and the
                                gentleman also asked Mr. H. where he stood when he was elected here.
                                His position then and now were the same on such a question, as the
                                resolution contemplates. It is his position that when the President
                                of the United States sends his armed soldiery to disperse a State
                                Legislature, he does an infamous thing, and ought to be impeached
                                for it. At the time of the military interference to which the
                                gentleman referred, Kansas was not a State, but a territory. There
                                was a Territorial Legislature called at Lecompton, but the pretended
                                State Legislature to which the gentleman referred, was held out
                                somewhere else. It was an unlawful assembly that President Pierce
                                dispersed - a pretended State in a Territory. But in Louisiana, it
                                is the case of a State with original rights. The gen-  tleman compares the breaking up of an
                                unlawful attempt to usurp the functions of a State Government in a
                                Territory, with the act of military interference with the
                                Legislative authority of a State by turning certain of its members
                                out of their places.
                            Another gentleman said that the Speaker of the House in Louisana was
                                himself first to call for the interference of the military. The fact
                                was that the Speaker asked that military officer to go to the mob in
                                the lobby and disperse them, as they ought to have been, for the
                                disturbance they were making; and that mob in the lobby was
                                comprised of Republicans - political friends of the gentleman. The
                                President had no right to inquire into the legality of the election
                                of members there.
                            Let gentlemen meet us fairly on this question as to the right of the
                                military arm to go into a Legislative body and declare as to who
                                shall be entitled to seats there. Let them not talk about loyalty
                                and the spirit of rebellion. For two years the Congress of the
                                United States has been afraid to face this question. For two years
                                the people of Louisiana have borne the oppression of a pretended
                                government which has been thrown upon them by military force. Let
                                not gentlemen drag out and hold up any more those bloody-bones and
                                shake them in the faces of the people. The question is simply
                                whether the Federal Government has the right to forcibly enter the
                                Legislative halls of a State, and unseat its members; and it cannot
                                be covered up by any side issue. The time is past, to drag in
                                questions in regard to the war, and slavery and violence, and
                                lawlessness in the South on all occasions. Admit that there have
                                been ugly scenes and bad actions in Louisiana - that has nothing to
                                do with the present question. The responsibility for the most of
                                these must forever rest with the minority of this House, and their
                                friends.
                            Mr. KENNEDY of Morgan replied. It was not claimed anywhere that the
                                Legislature of Louisiana was organized under the laws and
                                constitution of that State. Then what is the condition of things? It
                                must be that that body was organized in the spirit of
                                revolution. Dibble's letter asserts that for the last two years
                                there has been no government in the State of Louisiana - that they
                                were in a state of revolution. Then what was the duty of the Federal
                                Government? It was to put down revolution. And what was done to the
                                men that were forced into that Legislature by revolution as members
                                of it, was right. A man went in there, assuming the Speaker's Chair,
                                when he had no authority to do so; and a number of members left and
                                attempted to organize another Legislature. It would be a similar'
                                case, if such a thing were done in the Legislature of Indiana, if a
                                minority of the members here had unlawfully proclaimed a Speaker in
                                defiance of the lawful authority to organize this House. Such an
                                attempt would have been a revolutionary and riotous act It is true
                                that Dibble concludes in his letter, that there has been no fair
                                election in Louisiana; and if gentlemen will read both sides they
                                cannot avoid coming to the same conclusion. As for himself he would
                                like to get upon middle ground on this question - get out of the way
                                of both sides. Democrat papers charge the wrong upon the
                                Republicans, and Republican papers charge the wrong upon the other
                                party. Doubtless both may be wrong; but where there is so much smoke
                                there must be some fire. Gentlemen here should be careful not to do
                                injustice. We cannot pass this resolution without bringing upon
                                ourselves a very grave responsibility. And after all, what signifies
                                a party in the comparison with the good of the country? If the party
                                or the Country is to be sacrificed, he would say at all times: Let
                                the party be sacrificed.
                            Mr. TRUSLER now insisted upon the demand for the previous question,
                                and there was a second: and the main question, Shall the joint
                                resolution pass? being ordered and taken resulted - yeas 59, nays 37
                                - as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Those voting in the affirmative are Messrs
                                        
                                            Arnold.
                                            Barney.
                                            Bellows.
                                            Bence.
                                            Brown, of Jasper.
                                            Brown, of Rush.
                                            Burson.
                                            Oaldwell.
                                            Cantley.
                                            Collins.
                                            Crane.
                                            Davidson.
                                            Davis.
                                            Edwards.
                                            Emerson.
                                            Evans.
                                            Gilbert.
                                            Gossman,
                                            Harris, of Madison.
                                            Havens.
                                            Haynes.
                                            Heller,
                                            Hendersom,
                                            Hopkins.
                                            Horn.
                                            Johnson, of Carroll.
                                            Johnson, of Dearborn.
                                            Keightley.
                                            Law.
                                            Martin, of Franklin.
                                            Martin, of Wells.
                                            Marvin, of Boone.
                                            Meginity.
                                            Miller, of Parke.
                                            Miller, of Vanderburg.
                                            Montgomery.
                                            McCord.
                                            McFaddden.
                                            McMichael.
                                            Nash.
                                            Osborn.
                                            Pate.
                                            Pattersen.
                                            Piatt.
                                            Ramsey.
                                            Reddick.
                                            Reno.
                                            Romine.
                                            Roseberry.
                                            Shaw.
                                            Snyder.
                                            Taylor, of Daviess.
                                            Thompson, of Marion.
                                            Walz.
                                            Washburn.
                                            Waterman.
                                            Willett.
                                            Williams, of Brown.
                                            Speaker. - 59.
                                        
                                        Those voting in the negative are Messrs.
                                        
                                            Ames.
                                            Anderson.
                                            Bearss.
                                            Charters.
                                            
                                            Clark.
                                            Crumpacker.
                                            Dale.
                                            Darnall.
                                            Favorit.
                                            Forkner.
                                            Fulk.
                                            Harper.
                                            Harris, of Wayne.
                                            Heighway.
                                            Jackson.
                                            Kennedy, of Montg'y.
                                            Kennedy, of Morgan.
                                            Leeper.
                                            Lincoln.
                                            Morgan.
                                            Pfaflin.
                                            Ratliff.
                                            Ragan.
                                            Reeder.
                                            Ribble.
                                            Shaffer.
                                            Shortridge.
                                            Smith.
                                            Taylor, of Tipton.
                                            Thomas.
                                            Thompson, of Henry.
                                            Trusler.
                                            Twybell.
                                            Williams, of Lawrence Lanham.
                                            Woody.
                                            Wynn. - 37.
                                        
                                        Absent and not voting, Messrs.
                                        
                                            Marvin, of Fountain.
                                            Glasgow.
                                            Kennedy, of Marion.
                                            Shugart.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the joint resolution was passed the House of Representatives, and
                                it was ordered that the Clerk acquaint the Senate thereof.
                            Mr. TRUSLER presented the petition of sundry citizens of Union county
                                for a reduction of the pay of State and County officers, and for
                                amendment of the assessment law, by restoring that repealed by the
                                present law, which was referred to the committee on Fees
                                    and Salaries.
                            Mr. BURSON, Mr. SHAFFER, Mr. FORKNER, and Mr. RATLIFF, presented
                                temperance petitions.
                            On motion of Mr, HELLER, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the clerk of the House
                                            be requested to furnish 200 copies of a list of the
                                            standing committees of the House.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. REEDER submitted a resolution instructing the committee
                                    on public buildings for a Hospital for the incurably
                                insane, which was referred to the committee on Benevolent
                                    and Scientific Institutions.
                            Mr. SHAW submitted a preamble and resolution declaring opposition to
                                any increase to the court circuits, and the salaries of the Judges,
                                which was referred to the committees on the organization of
                                    Courts of Justice.
                            On motion of Mr. HELLER, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That we heard with great
                                            pleasure the able and exhaustive message of the Governor
                                            on Friday last, and whilst there may be those who will
                                            not indorse it all, we do indorse the same as
                                            unsurpassed by anything of the kind in the State of
                                            Indiana.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion of Mr. DALE, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That a committee of three be
                                            appointed by the Speaker to inquire and report to the
                                            House, the number of attachees for the service of the
                                            House, and whether in their opinion their number may not
                                            be reduced without detriment.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. FORKNER moved ineffectually for the reconsideration of Mr.
                                Kennedy, of Montgomery's resolution for a committee of five to
                                inquire into the expenses of the Judicial system.
                            Mr. CRUMPACKER introduced a bill [H. R. 93] to amend section 7 of the
                                act of March 6, 1865, to amend the second section and to amend
                                section 5 and 6 of the act to provide for the election of a reporter
                                of the Supreme Court, and the speedy publication of the decisions of
                                the Supreme Court, etc.; also, to'amend the 76th section of the act
                                for the election of a Reporter to the Supreme Court, approved
                                February 15, 1852.
                            Mr. THOMAS submitted a preamble and resolution, requesting the
                                chairman of the committee on Fees and Salaries to
                                cause that committee to proceed at once to the consideration of the
                                different bills referred to that committee in reference to the
                                compensation of members or the General Assembly, and report as soon
                                as practicable; also, that the bill which they report shall have a
                                clause for emergency.
                            Mr. DARNALL, (stating that it looks too much like an impeachment of
                                the committee) moved that it be referred to the committee
                                    on Fees and Salaries.
                            Mr. HELLER moved ineffectually to lay it on the table - decided by
                                yeas 5, nays 57.
                            The preamble and resolution was then referred.
                            Mr. RAGAN presented a temperance petition by citizens of Hendricks
                                county. The House then took a recess till two o'clock, p. m.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The SPEAKER resumed at two o'clock, p. m., and, under the rule,
                                called the standing committees for reports, the several chairman
                                responding, no report, and sometimes with announcements of committee
                                meetings.
                            
                                ORDERS FOR REFERENCE OF BUSINESS ON THE
                                    SPEAKER'S TABLE.
                                Mr. LANHAM'S per diem bill [H.R.47] was referred to the
                                        committee on fees and salaries.
                                Mr. HELLER'S Legislative expenses bill [H. R. 48] was laid on the
                                    table.
                                Mr. WILLIAMS, of Brown's assessment act amendment bill [H. R. 49]
                                        committee on county and township
                                    business.
                                Mr. WILLIAMS, of Brown's railroad bill [H. R 50]
                                        committee on railroads.
                                Mr. CANTLEY'S grand jury abolition bill [H. R. 51]
                                        committee on the organization of
                                    courts.
                                Mr. CALD WELL'S town corporation amendment bill [H. R. 52]
                                        committee on cities and towns.
                                Mr. ROMINE'S married womens contract bill [H. R. 53]
                                        committee on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. BARNEY'S practice act amend-  ment bill [H. R. 54]
                                        committee on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. BARNEY'S town corporation amendment bill [H. R. 55]
                                        committee on cities and towns.
                                Mr. WATERMAN'S school bill [H.R.57] committee on
                                        education.
                                Mr. GLARE'S Justices and Mayor's process bill [H. R. 58]
                                        committee on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. CLARE'S grand jury bill [H. R. 59] committee on the
                                        organization of courts.
                                Mr. CLARE'S assessment law amendment bill [H. R. 60]
                                        committee on rights and privileges.
                                Mr. McCORD'S justices act amendment bill [H. R. 61]
                                        committee on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. RAGAN'S township trustees bill [H. R. 62] committee
                                        on county and township business.
                                Mr. FAVORIT'S school examiners bill [H. R. 63] committee
                                        on education.
                                Mr. DAVIDSON'S court bill [H. R. 64] committee on the
                                        organization of courts.
                                Mr. LANHAM'S county commissioners pay bill [H. R. 65]
                                        committee on fees and salaries.
                                Mr. HARPER'S Attorney's fees bill [H. R. 66.] Committee
                                        on Rights and Privileges.
                                Mr. Speaker TURPIE'S change of corporate name bill [H. R. 67.]
                                        Committee on Education.
                                Mr KENNEDY of Montgomery's Road bill [H. R. 68.]
                                        Committee on Roads.
                                Mr. KENNEDY'S County Commissioners Road bill [H. R. 69.]
                                        Committee on Roads.
                                Mr. KENNEDY'S bribery bill [H. R. 70] Committee on
                                        Elections.
                                Mr. MEGINITY'S Grand jury and Justices jurisdiction bill [H. R.
                                    71.] Committee on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. CRUMPACKER'S Railroad bill [H. R. 72.] Committee on
                                        Agriculture.
                                Mr. ROMINE'S resummoning wtiness bill [H. R. 73.]
                                        Committee on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. LEEPER'S Wild game bill [H. R. 74.] Committee on
                                        Agriculture.
                                Mr. EDWARDS stating that at the proper time he would move to
                                    increase the penalty for killing wild fowl game.
                                Mr. TAYLOR of Tipton's supplementary partition amendment bill [H.
                                    R. 75.] Committee on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. PFAFLIN'S liquor bill [H. R. 76.] Committee on
                                        Temperance.
                                Mr. PFAFLIN'S official notice in German papers bill [H. R. 77.]
                                        Committee on Printing.
                                Mr. HAVEN'S $500 exemption bill [H. R. 78.] Committee on
                                        the Judiciary.
                                Mr. HARRIS of Wayne's Decedents estates act amendent bill [H. R.
                                    79.] Committee on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. COLLINS real property act amendment bill [H. R. 80.]
                                        Committee on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. COLLINS town corporation act amendment bill [H. R. 81.]
                                        Committee on Cities and Towns.
                                Mr. HORN'S Tippecanoe Monument bill [H. R. 82.]
                                        Committee on Public Expenditures.
                                Mr. NASH'S per diem bill [H. R. 83.] Committee on Fees
                                        and Salaries.
                                Mr. KENNEDY of Montgomery Practice act amendment bill [H. R. 84.]
                                        Committee on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. CLARE'S Justice Jurisdiction bill [H. R. 85.]
                                        Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                                Mr. DA VIS 27th Criminal Circuit abolition bill [H. R. 86.]
                                        Committee on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. CLARE'S Grand Jurors act amendment bill [H. R. 87.]
                                        Committee on the organization of
                                    Courts.
                                Mr. HELLER'S Town Corporation amendment bill [H. R. 88,]
                                        Committee on Corporations.
                                Mr. KEIGHTLEY'S Boards of Trade organization bill [H. R. 89.]
                                        Committee on Agriculture.
                                Mr. HAVENS' Supreme Court, appeals bill [H. R. 90]
                                        Committee on Fees and Salaries.
                                Mr. MARTIN of Franklin's per diem bill [H. R. 91]
                                        Committee on Fees and Salaries.
                                Mr. MORGAN, of Henry's joint resolution [H. R. 2] for fixing
                                    member's per diem at five dollars, etc., by a committee to
                                    report a bill, etc. was referred to the Committee on
                                        Fees and Salaries.
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. KENNEDY of Montgomery introduced a bill [H. R. 94] for an act
                                    supplemental to an act regulating the granting of Divorces,
                                    nullification of Marriages, and orders and decrees of Court
                                    incident thereto, etc., and declaring an emergency.
                                Mr. MARVIN of Boone introduced a bill [H. R. 95] for an act to
                                    amend section 2 of the act concerning the organizations of
                                    voluntary associations, and repealing former acts in relation
                                    thereto, approved February 12, 1855, as amended by act of March
                                    9, 1861, and declaring an emergency.
                                Mr. EDWARDS introduced a bill [H. R. 96] for an act to amend the
                                    school law so as to allow each school district its equal share
                                    in the distribution of the fund, repealing, etc.
                                
                                Mr. COLLINS introduced a bill [H. R. 97] for an act to amend
                                    section 136 of the Civil Practice act of June 18, 1852.
                                Mr. HOPKINS introduced a bill [H. R 98] for an act defining the
                                    liabilities of mortgagors of real and personal property,
                                    repealing, etc.
                                Mr. FORKNER introduced a bill [H. R. 99] for an act to amend
                                    section 1 of the act to provide compensation to the owners of
                                    animals killed by the cars, locomotives or other carriages of
                                    Railroads and to en force the collection of judgments rendered
                                    on account of the same, repealing, etc.
                                Mr. BENCE introduced a bill [H. R. 100] for an act to amend the
                                    7th section of an act to amend sections 15 and 16 of the act to
                                    provide for the election of a reporter and provide for the
                                    speedy publication of the decisions of the Supreme Court,
                                    approved February 28, 1855, and also to amend the 7th section of
                                    the act of February 5, 1852.
                                Mr. KEIGHTLEY introduced a bill [H. R. 101] for an act to
                                    regulate public warehouses, and for inspecting grainmaking
                                    warehouse receipts assignable, and providing penalties for
                                    issuing false and fraudulent receipts.
                                Mr. RAGAN introduced a bill [H. R. 102] for an act to incorporate
                                    the Indiana Horticultural Society.
                                Mr. TRUSLER introduced a bill [H. R. 103] for an act to amend an
                                    act providing for the protection of Fish, repealing all laws in
                                    conflict with the same, and providing penalties, approved
                                    February 17, 1871. [Unlawful to take fish between the first of
                                    March and the first of July.]
                                Mr. RATLIFF introduced a bill [H. R. 104] for an act to amend
                                    section 16 of the act concerning real property and the
                                    alienation thereof, approved May 5, 1862.
                                Mr. COLLINS introduced a bill [H. R. 105] for an act to amend
                                    section 1 of the act to amend section 15 of an act to provide
                                    for the opening, vacating and change of highways - approved
                                    March 17, 1852 approved March 9, 1857.
                                Mr. HAVENS introduced a bill (H. R. 106] for an act to amend
                                    section 5 of an act supplemental to an act to amend the 56th and
                                    59th sections of an act to provide for the settlement of
                                    decedents' estates, etc., approved February 26, 1855, and to
                                    provide for the payment of costs in certain cases.
                                Mr. RENO presented the petition of Michael C. Kerr and Cyrus L.
                                    Dunham, against the abolition of the Clark & Floyd (27th)
                                    Criminal Circuit, and asked that it be referred to the same
                                    Committee charged with Mr. Davis' bill [H. R. 86] to abolish
                                    said Criminal Circuit.
                                Mr. DARNALL moved to reconsider the vote of to-day by which Mr.
                                    Davis' bill was referred to the Committee on the
                                        Judiciary, desiring it to be be
                                    referred to the Committee on the Organization of Courts
                                        of Justice, where it properly belongs, and stating
                                    that he was charged with a petition in reference to the
                                    matter.
                                Mr. DAVIS (who had objected before) now interposed no further
                                    objection, but reiterated that the bill is all right - the House
                                    will find it out in the end.
                                The vote was reconsidered, and the bill [H. R. 86] with all
                                    papers in relation to it was referred to the Committee
                                        on the Organization of Courts.
                                Mr. KENNEDY of Montgomery presented the petition of one thousand
                                    five hundred and fifty of his constituents against the repeal of
                                    the Baxter law.
                                Mr. COLLINS introduced a bill [H. R. 107] for an act to amend
                                    section 11 of the act concerning the partition of lands,
                                    approved May 26, 1852.
                                Mr. CHARTERS introduced a bill [H. R. 108] for an act limiting
                                    the power of County Commissioners.
                                Mr. WATERMAN introduced a bill [H. R. 109] for an act to provide
                                    for the removal of line-fences in certain cases, and prescribing
                                    the duties of Justices, Constables and applicants in relation
                                    thereto. [Ten months notice.]
                                Mr. TWIBILL introduced a bill [H. R. 110] for an act prescribing
                                    the number of members of the General Assembly of the State of
                                    Indiana. [Senate twenty-five - House fifty.]
                                On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS of Brown it was laid on the table; but
                                    subsequently -
                                On motion of Mr. MARVIN of Boone the vote was reconsidered, and
                                    the bill restored to its place in the calendar on the second
                                    reading.
                                Mr. KENNEDY of Marion, submitted a motion, ineffectually, to lay
                                    the bill on the table.
                                Mr. WYNN introduced a bill [H. R. 111] for an act defining grave
                                    robbery, prescribing punishment therefor, declaring an
                                    emergency.
                            
                            
                                WOMEN'S TEMPERANCE UNION.
                                On motion of Mr. Wynn it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Clerk be directed to invite the
                                                Senate to meet the House of Representatives in this
                                                Hall on the 21st of January, 1875, at 3
                                                1/2 o'clock p. m. for the purpose of hearing
                                                addresses by Mrs. Ex. Governor Wallace and Mrs.
                                                Aveline of Ft. Wayne on the subject of
                                                Temperance.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                Mr. CLARK introduced a bill [H. R. 102,] for an act to amend
                                    sections one and two of the act to provide for the protection of
                                    wild game, and define the time in which the same may be taken
                                    and killed, and prescribing penalties, approved March 11, 1867,
                                    and also providing for the protection of certain birds, which
                                    took effect March 15, 1873.
                                These bills were passed to the second reading.
                                The House then adjourned, till to-morrow morning nine o'clock.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    VOLUME FIFTEEN.
                    INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            TUESDAY, January 14, 1875.
                        
                        The Senate met at 10 o'clock a. m., pursuant to adjournment - Lieutenant
                            Governor SEXTON in the Chair.
                        He said: The Committee appointed to procure a minister of the gospel to
                            open the daily sessions of the Senate with prayer have procured the
                            services of the Rev. Dr. NUTT, President of the State University, for
                            this morning. Senators will please rise while he prays.
                        After the order of prayer -
                        The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read and
                            approved.
                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. RINGO presented a memorial against intemperance, praying that
                                every liquor seller shall not only be required to obtain signatures
                                of a majority of the men in the localities, but of women also.
                            He also presented a petition against the repeal of the present liquor
                                law.
                            They were referred to the Committee on
                                Temperance.
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. BUNYAN, from the Committee thereon, reported the mileage of each
                                member of the Senate.
                            Mr. SLEETH, from the Select Committee thereon, reported the
                                procurement of six rooms in the Franklin Life Insurance Company's
                                Building for the use of the several committees of the Senate, and
                                the assignment of the same.
                            The reports were severally concurred in.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            Mr. SLEETH introduced a bill [S. 82] to vest in the assignors of the
                                branches of the banks of the State of Indiana the right to enforce
                                in their own names, either before or after the expiration of the
                                charter of said banks, the possession, collection and enjoyment of
                                the assets so assigned, and to have legal process, and to give
                                acquittances in their own names, and to secure to them other
                                rights.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Banks.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON, of Parke, introduced a bill [S. 83] for an act to
                                provide against intoxication on the part of public officers, and to
                                provide for the removal of officers therefor.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. HAWORTH introduced a bill [S. 84] for an act to repeal section 55
                                of the general banking act of March 3, 1855, and to provide for the
                                turning in to the general fund certain funds therein named and
                                declaring an emergency. [The amount held in trust for the redemption
                                of the notes of banks under the said act.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Banks.
                            Mr. PEED introduced a bill [S. 85] for an act to prevent exhorbitant
                                charges for, and unjust discrimination in, the transportation of
                                freights by railroad companies and other common carriers, and to
                                provide a remedy where such extortions or discriminations are
                                practiced.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Railroads.
                            Mr. CARDWELL introduced a bill [S. 86] for an act to fix the salaries
                                of Judges of the Supreme Court, [$3,000,] the Superior, Criminal and
                                Circuit Court Judges of this State.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Fees and Salaries.
                            Mr. DYKEMAN introduced a bill [S. 87] for an act to provide for the
                                construction of fish ladders.
                            
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Eights and Privileges of the inhabitants of this
                                State.
                            Mr. SCOTT introduced a bill [S 88] for an act providing for the
                                recording of Sheriffs certificates in certain cases, and providing
                                payments for the same, and declaring an emergency.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                        
                        
                            CONTESTED ELECTION CASES.
                            The Doorkeeper announced a message for the Senate, and the Lieutenant
                                Governor having recognized the Secretary of State [Mr. Curry] that
                                official said: Mr. President: I have in my hand papers filed in my
                                office contesting the seats of members of this body - Walker against
                                LaRue, and Jeffries against Baxter - which I deliver in your
                                possession.
                            Subsequently -
                            On motion of Mr. HAENEY, these papers were referred to the
                                    Committee on Elections.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            Mr. LARUE introduced a bill [S. 89] for an act providing for the
                                organization of camp meeting associations, and providing for the
                                management and government thereof.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges of the Inhabitants of this
                                State.
                            Mr. BEAESS introduced a bill [S. 90] for an act to limit the powers
                                of county boards in appropriations of sums of $5,000, in cases where
                                it is proposed to construct new public buildings, or repair those
                                already built, or to construct new bridges, or the repairs thereof,
                                and requiring a vote of the county in favor of such appropriations
                                before the same shall be made; to amend the 16th section of an act
                                entitled "An act providing for the organization of county boards,
                                and prescribing some of their powers, and duties," approved June 17,
                                1752, repealing certain laws contravening this act, and declaring an
                                emergency.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    County and Township Business.
                            Mr. WILSON introduced a bill [S. 91] for an act to amend section 9 of
                                the common school law approved March 6, 1855, and adding
                                supplementary sections thereto. [Fixing the time for holding
                                township institutes at three months instead of one month, as now
                                required by the school law.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Education.
                            Mr. THOMPSON introduced a bill [S. 92] for an act supplemental to the
                                act for the incorporation of manufacturing, mining, chemical, or
                                mechanical companies, approved May 20, 1852. [Providing for the
                                incorporation of companies to buy and sell dry goods, carpets, boots
                                and shoes, millinery, fancy goods, and jewelry, in connection with
                                the manufacture of such goods into any articles for which they are
                                suitable.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.
                            Mr. ROE introduced a bill [S. 93] for an act to repeal an act to
                                enable counties bordering on State lines, or rivers forming State
                                boundaries, and townships and cities therein, to aid in the
                                construction of railroads [or bridges] opposite said counties in
                                other States, to run to said counties, etc., approved December 14,
                                1872.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Railroads.
                            Mr. GIVAN introduced a bill [S. 94] for an act to regulate the sale
                                of proprietary or patent medicines. He also presented a petition
                                therefor from the Medical Society of Dearborn county.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges of the inhabitants of this
                                State.
                            Mr. OLIVER introduced a bill [S. 95] for an act in relation to the
                                laying out, opening, widening and alteration of streets, alleys, or
                                water courses, in this State, and providing for the appointment of
                                commissioners to assess damages, etc.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.
                            Mr. HOUGH introduced a bill [S. 96] for an act concerning the sale of
                                real estate of married women by virtue of a judgment or decree of
                                courts in this State, in which their wives are not party defendants
                                and bound by such decree, and prescribing the rights of such wives.
                                [The title to one-third shall be vested and set off to her.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. STOCKSLAGEE introduced a bill [S. 97] for an act defining who
                                shall be competent witness in any court or judicial proceeding in
                                this State, repealing all laws in conflict with the provisions of
                                this act, and declaring an emergency. [It provides that husband and
                                wife may testify for or against each other in all cases except as to
                                confidential communications made to or received by either from other
                                during the marriage.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. FEIEDLEY, of Scott, introduced a bill [S. 98] to amend section 40
                                of an act dividing the State into counties, approved June 7, 1852.
                                [Affects the county of Jennings.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to  the Committee on County and
                                    Township Business.
                            Mr. BAXTER introduced a bill [S. 49] for an act to amend the divorce
                                law, approved March 10, 1873, and providing that parties in divorce
                                suits, may, in certain cases, be witnesses.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            And then the Senate took a recess until 2 o'clock p. m.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at two o'clock, p. m.

                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. BELL introduced a bill [S. 100] for an act in relation to
                                    orders issued by cities upon their treasuries, and providing for
                                    the presentation and payment of the same.
                                It was read the first time and referred to the Committee
                                        on the Judiciary.
                                Mr. THOMPSON introduced a bill [S. 101] for an act empowering the
                                    Auditor of State to correct errors heretofore made in deeds
                                    issued by him for lands, etc.
                                It was read the first time and referred to the Committee
                                        on the Judiciary.
                            
                            
                                LOCAL OPTION.
                                Mr. NEFF submitted the following:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Temperance be
                                                  instructed that in the preparation of a
                                                bill for the regulation of the sale of intoxicating
                                                liquors, among others, the features of local option
                                                be embraced therein.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                He said: The Committee on Temperance of both
                                    Houses had an informal meeting after the adjournment this
                                    morning, and they desire to be instructed on that subject. A
                                    like resolution will be introduced in the House of
                                    Representatives, asking instructions from that body, and we
                                    desire each member to vote as he will vote in the future when
                                    bills on this subject shall come up for consideration. We think
                                    there will be no trouble in agreeing upon the main features of a
                                    temperance bill, if we can settle this question of local
                                    option.
                                Mr SMITH. I would prefer that the resolution should be passed
                                    over until all Senators shall be present, and then have the yeas
                                    and nays called on it.
                                Mr. NEFF. Yes, I would like that.
                                Mr. BOONE demanded a call of the Senate.
                                The call of the Senate having been taken discovered but 37
                                    Senators present and answering to their names.
                                Pending the roll call, leaves of absence were obtained for Mr.
                                    Rhodes, and Mr. Skinner, till next week.
                                Mr. BOONE very much desired that this proposition should be laid
                                    over until there is a full Senate.
                                The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I have no doubt but that is the wish of
                                    the Senator who introduced the resolution, for it involves,
                                    perhaps,the gist of the whole temperance question.
                                Mr. BOONE. It is useless for these committees to spend the
                                    session, or one half of it, in the preparation of bills that
                                    will not pass.
                                The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Does the Senator desire to make a
                                    motion?
                                Mr. BOONE. I move it lie on the table till Monday.
                                Mr. BELL. I move to amend by making it Wednesday of next week at
                                    2 o'clock. We will all be here then.
                                Mr. BOONE. My only objection to that is the delay. The committee
                                    desire to be at work.
                                Mr. SLEETH. Several Senators have already got leave of absence,
                                    and I know of others who desire to go home and who cannot get
                                    back by Monday afternoon. If this is to be a test vote it had
                                    better be taken when the Senate is full, for a vote when the
                                    seats are but half filled will be no test at all. I would like
                                    to see the amendment of the Senator from Allen (Mr. Bell)
                                    accepted.
                                The amendment was agreed to, and the resolution as amended was
                                    adopted.
                            
                            
                                STATIONERY FOR COMMITTEES.
                                Mr. DAGGY submitted a resolution, which was agreed to,
                                    authorizing the Chairman of the several committees of the Senate
                                    to draw from the Secretary of State, stationery for the use of
                                    their several committees only; and, also, a set of the
                                    Revis-Statutes, and the laws of 1872 and 1873, to be left at the
                                    close of the session with the furniture of the rooms.
                            
                            
                                PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                                Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Lawrence, presented a petition from numerous
                                    citizens of Lawrence county, praying for the reduction of fees
                                    and salaries of officers; for an increase of the jurisdiction of
                                    Justices of the Peace; to declare void all contracts in written
                                    instruments to pay plaintiffs' attorney's fees; to limit the
                                    power of county commissioners and township trustees in the
                                    assessment of taxes; that in all suits the plaintiff be required
                                    to give security for the payment of costs; the old appraisement
                                    of real property and probate laws be re-enacted; that all
                                    rail-road aid laws be repealed; that all indebtedness be
                                    deducted from tax assessments; for the taxation of church
                                    property exceeding in value two thousand five hundred dollars;
                                    that all dogs be taxed 
                                    alike; to allow fish taken in any way in October, November and
                                    December; for the election of a United States Senator in
                                    sympathy with the laboring classes, in favor of a currency which
                                    may be expanded or contracted, in favor of paying the &20
                                    bonds in legal-tender notes, and the taxation of United States
                                    bonds, and who has never countenanced by word or act, the
                                    "Salary Grab."
                                Mr. FRIEDLEY of Lawrence, I will say that this petition has been
                                    prepared by a Committee appointed by the council of the Patrons
                                    of Husbandry in my county. There are several Senate committees
                                    who have charge of the matters embraced in it, but believing the
                                        Committee on Fees and Salaries will have
                                    more to do with it than any other one Committee, I will ask its
                                    reference to that Committee.
                                It was refered to the Committee on Fees and
                                        Salaries.
                                The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. It is only just to say that we are
                                    gaining nothing by remaining in session, the committees have
                                    more work on hand than they will probably be able to do in a
                                    week. New members may object to early adjournments, but I want
                                    Senators to understand, that when we have any business to do I
                                    am in favor of doing it, but really, we are out of business
                                    now.
                            
                            
                                LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
                                Mr. SLATER asked and obtained leave of absence for Mr.
                                    Winterbotham till Monday afternoon.
                                And then the Senate adjourned till tomorrow morning at 10
                                    o'clock.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            THURSDAY, January 14, 1875.
                        
                        The SPEAKER called the House to order at 9 o'clock, a.m., and directed
                            the Clerk to read the Journal of yesterday, and the same was read and
                            authenticated.
                        Mr. KENNEDY, of Montgomery, from the committee on the
                                Judiciary, returned bill [H. R. 30] to provide for the
                            prosecution of criminal actions by information, with amendments, 1,
                            after word "witnesses" insert these words: ''not exceeding three,"
                            second strike out the 4th section, and so amended the committee
                            recommend the passage of the bill.
                        The amendments were adopted, and the report concurred in, and then the
                            bill was to be engrossed.
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The SPEAKER now repeated the call of counties and districts for bills
                                and resolutions.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS, of Brown, introduced a bill [H.R. 113] for an act to
                                amend sections 3, 4 and 5 of an act to amend an act to provide for a
                                general system of common schools, etc.
                            Mr. CANTLEY introduced a bill [H.R. 114] title not read - railroads
                                may demand not exceeding three cents a mile for any distance more
                                than eight miles for each passenger, and for property not exceeding
                                five cents per town, for any distance exceeding 30 miles, and for
                                less than thirty miles not more than 6 cents per ton, etc.
                            Mr. BENCE introduced a bill [H.R. 115] title not read, regulating the
                                sale of drugs and medicines. Druggists may not sell certain drugs
                                except upon the prescription of a physician, and other certain drugs
                                except they be scientifically compounded.
                            On motion of Mr. CALDWELL, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the committee
                                                on the Judiciary by instructed to inquire
                                            what further Legislation, if any, is necessary to secure
                                            a fair an equitable assessment of property for taxation
                                            as required by the Constitution, and report by bill or
                                            otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. TAYLOR, of Daviess, submitted a preamble and resolution reciting
                                that there is a large amount of stationery with the State Librarian,
                                known as the Braden stationery, giving history of its purchase to
                                Braden & Burford, and the refusal of the General Assembly to
                                accept such portion of said stationery as could be used otherwise
                                than by the Legislature, that that a large portion of was
                                thrown upon the hands of the Secretary of State, that it is at
                                present in the hands of the Librarian, in quantity sufficient for
                                the supply of the present session of the General Assembly with
                                stationery, excepting engrossing and enrolling paper, therefore,
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Secretary of State
                                            furnish a complete statement of the amount of stationery
                                            belonging to the State now in his possession, stating
                                            also where purchased and by whom; and that said report
                                            be made at as early a period as possible.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. WYNN desired the resolution to be amended by inserting the words,
                                "at what price that same was purchased." His recollection was that
                                one of the reasons why that stationery was not accepted, was a
                                difficulty about the price. - The amendment and the resolution as
                                amended, were adopted. Mr. SHAW introduced a bill [H.R. 116] for an
                                act supplemental to an act concerning licenses to send foreign
                                merchandize, and to exhibit any caravan menagerie, dancing puppet
                                show, or legerdemain, approved June 21, 1852.
                            Mr. WATERMAN introduced a bill [H.  R. 117]- title not read. All county and township officers shall
                                account for the interest or per centage which they way receive on
                                all public moneys coming under their control - this act not to be
                                construed so as to authorize such loaning of the public funds.
                            Temperance petitions were presented by Messrs. OSBORN, TRUSLER,
                                MARVIN of Fountain, FULK, RAGAN, BROWN of Jasper, McFADDEN, WILLIAMS
                                of Lawrence, KEIGHTLEY, SHORTRIDGE, PFAFLIN, DALE, HARRIS of Wayne
                                and MARTIN of Wells, which were severally referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance.
                            Mr. TRUSLER introduced a bill [H. R. 118] for an act to amend section
                                five of an act to amend an act to provide for a general system of
                                common schools, the officers thereof, their respective powers and
                                duties, etc, approved March 6, 1865, and adding supplemental
                                sections thereto, approved March 8, 1873.
                            Mr. DAVIS presented by request, a resolution of the County Board of
                                Floyd county, for the abolition of that Criminal Circuit for the
                                counties of Floyd, and Clark, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Organization of Courts of
                                    Justice.
                            Mr. RAMSEY introduced a bill [H. R. 119] for an act to amend sections
                                6 and 9, and repealing sections 11 and 12 of the act approved March
                                9, 1873: (regulating the salary, powers, and duties of the Attorney
                                General.)
                            Mr. FAVORIT introduced a bill [H. R. 120] for an act defining the
                                powers and duties of Justices of the Peace in Criminal cases,
                                repealing certain laws, and declaring an emergency.
                            Mr. LANHAM submitted a resolution declaring the deep regrets of the
                                General, Assembly on the announcement, of the death of Milton B.
                                Hopkins, late Superintendent of Public Instruction of the State of
                                Indiana, which was adopted unanimously by members rising from their
                                seats.
                            Mr. HOPKINS presented a bill by a party claiming extra Clerk hire,
                                which Was referred to the Committee of
                                Claims.
                            Mr. SNYDER introduced a bill [H R. 121] for an act prescribing that
                                actions may be entered for the recovery of debt, Obligation or
                                contract in any township where the contract was created, as well as
                                where the defendant resides, and declaring an emergency.
                            On motion of Mr. ROSEBERRY it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Doorkeeper of the
                                            House be requested to report the cost of committee
                                            rooms.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. KENNEDY of Montgomery introduced a bill [H. R. 122] for an act
                                providing that in trials by jury, two-thirds of the jury may make a
                                verdict.
                            He also presented a temperance petition signed by twelve hundred
                                citizens; and also a petition on the subject of destruction of
                                birds; which were appropriately referred.
                            Mr. CRUMPACKER presented the claim I.J. Ferris; which was referred to
                                the Committee on Claims.
                            Mr. BURSON introduced a bill [H. R. 123] for an act to amend section
                                208 of the Practice act of June 18, 1852. [Concerning cases in
                                change of venue.]
                            Also a bill [H. R. 124] for an act to amend an act entitled an act
                                concerning promissory notes, bills of exchange, bonds, or other
                                instruments in writing executed by any person promising to pay
                                money, to deliver any specific article, or to convey any property,
                                etc., approved March 11, 1861, and repealing all laws in conflict
                                therewith. [It amends section 3, repeals sections 2, 5 and 6; and
                                repeals an act of May 12, 1852.]
                            Also a bill [H. R. 125.] tor an act to amend an act entitled an act
                                to provide a general system of common schools, etc. approved Mar.
                                8th. 1873. [It amends sections 4 and 5,certain cities exempt from
                                County Superintendents. [County Superintendents to receive three
                                dollars for each day's service.]
                            Mr. REEDER introduced a bill [H. R. 126} for an act regulating
                                interest on money, and providing for attorney's fees when paid by
                                defendant. [Lawful interest six per cent such attorney's fees to be
                                five dollars, and two dollars before a Justice of the Peace.]
                            Mr. REDDICK introduced a bill [H. R. 127] for an act to regulate the
                                fees, and salaries of county treasurers of the several counties of
                                the State of Indiana. [5 per cent on first $25,000 and 2 per cent.
                                for over.]
                            Mr. BROWN, of Rush, presented a temperance petition by citizens of
                                Decatur county, which was referred.
                            Mr. TAYLOR, of Tipton, introduced a bill [H. R. 128] for an act to
                                repeal section 55 of an act to amend an act to organize and
                                regulate'general banking, approved March 3, 1855, and to provide for
                                turning over into the general fund certain moneys therin named.
                            On motion of Mr. GILBERT, it was -
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Auditor of State be
                                            requested to furnish a full and complete  list of the employee of
                                            the House of Representatives during the session of 1873,
                                            together with the amount paid said employees.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. HAVENS introduced a bill [H. R. 129] for an act to amend an act
                                to incorporate the Indiana Fire and Marine Insurance Company,
                                approved February 13, 1861.
                            Mr. DALE submitted a resolution for a special committee of three,
                                whose duty it shall be to communicate with the Auditor of State, and
                                ascertain what has been the cost to the State yearly for the BREVIER
                                REPORTS, and report whether said Reports are necessary.
                            Which was adopted.
                            On motion of Mr. DAVIS, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Judiciary
                                                Committee be instructed to inquire and
                                            report as soon as practicable whether or not there is
                                            any vacancy in the office of Trustee 0f the Blind Asylum
                                            to be filled by the present Legislature.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. MARVIN, of Boone, presented the memorial of C. W. Gibson, of
                                Boone county, who was a soldier in the Mexican war, and he asks that
                                a joint resolution of this Legislature be amended so as to instruct
                                for a pension for all soldiers who served in the Mexican war.
                            Which was referred to the Committee an Federal
                                    Relations.
                            Mr. CANTLEY introduced a bill [H. R. 130] for an act to exempt
                                specific articles of personal property from execution. [Belonging to
                                married women and females over 21 years of age.]
                            The foregoing bills were severally read and passed to the second
                                reading.
                        
                        
                            ORDERS FOR THE DIRECTION OP BUSINESS ONTHE
                                SPEAKER'S TABLE.
                            The Speaker now took up the regular order of business.
                            The joint resolution [S No. 3] to make temporary provision for the
                                public printing was read and passed to the second reading.
                            Mr. Harper's Railroad Fence bill [H. R. 92] was referred to the
                                    Committee on Railroads.
                            Mr. Crumpacker's Supreme Court Reporter bill [H. R, 93] -
                            and Mr. Kennedy of Montgomery's Supplemental Divorce bill [H. R. 94]
                                were referred to the Committee on the
                                Judiciary.
                            Mr. Marvin of Boone's Voluntary Association bill [H. R. 95] was
                                referred to the Committee on Agriculture.
                            Mr Edwards' Equalizing School Fund bill [H. R 96] was referred to the
                                    Committee on Education.
                            Mr. Collins' Practice Act Amendment bill [H. R. 97], and -
                            Mr. Hopkins' Liability of Mortgages bill [H.R. 98] were referred to
                                the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Forkner's Compensation for Railroad Damages bill [H. R. 99] was
                                referred to the Committee on Railroads.
                            Mr. Bence's Supreme Court Reporter bill [H. R. 100] was referred to
                                the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr Cantley's Public Warehouse bill [H. R. 101] was referred to the
                                    Committee on Corporations.
                            Mr. Ragan's Indiana Horticultural Society bill [H. R. 102] -
                                    Committee on Agriculture.
                            Mr. Trusler's Fish Act Amendment bill [H. R. 103] -
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. Ratliff's Mortgage Record bill [H. R. 104] - Committee
                                    on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Collins' Highways bill [H. R. 105] was Referred to the
                                    Committee on Roads.
                            Mr. Havens' Decedents estates settlement bill [H. R. 106] and
                            Mr. Collins' Partition of Lands bill [H. R. 107] were referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Charters' County Commissioners bill [H R. 108] Committee
                                    on County and Township business.
                            Mr. Waterman's Line Fence bill [H. R. 109] - Committee on
                                    Agriculture.
                            Mr. Twibill's Number of Members of the General Assembly bill - [H R.
                                110] coming up
                            Mr. Thompson, of Henry, moved that it be indefinitely postponed.
                            On motion of Mr. LANHAM the motion was laid on the table.
                            On motion of Mr. DAVIS, the bill was referred to tie
                                    Committee on Elections.
                            Mr. Wynn's Grave-robbing bill [H. R. 111] was referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                            Mr. Clark's Wild Game protection amendment bill [H. R. 112] was read
                                and referred to the Committee on Agriculture.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            On motion by Mr. DARNALL, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Judiciary
                                                committee be instructed to inquire into
                                            the legality and propriety of having only six pettit
                                            Jurors for trial in civil causes in this State, and
                                            report by bill or otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            
                            MR. KENNEDY, of Marion, introduced a bill [H. R. 131] for an act to
                                regulate the sale of intoxicating liquors, to provide against the
                                evils resulting from any sale thereof, prescribing penalties,and
                                repealing all former laws for this purpose, and declaring an
                                emergency.
                            Which was read and ordered to the second reading.
                            The House then took a recess till two o'clock, p.m.
                        
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The SPEAKER resumed the Chair at 2 o'clock p. m.

                            
                                TERRE HAUTE AND INDIANAPOLIS R. R.
                                Mr. EDWARDS submitted a preamble and resolution, reciting that
                                    the twenty-third section of the charter of the Terre Haute and
                                    Indianapolis Railroad Company, which was approved on the 26th of
                                    July, 1847, provides that certain surplus profits of that
                                    Railroad shall be paid over to the Common School Fund of the
                                    State, which said company has failed to do, and so become
                                    indebted to the State in a large amount, therefore,
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Railroads be
                                                requested to ascertain whether said Terre Haute and
                                                Indianapolis Railroad Company have complied with the
                                                said section twenty-three of their charter, and for
                                                this purpose, said committee are authorized to send
                                                for persons and papers belonging to said Railroad
                                                Company, and all other persons and papers to obtain
                                                the facts in the case.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. HAVENS would like for the gentleman from Putnam to make a
                                    settlement of the matter in his resolution.
                                Mr. HELLER. This question was killed last session in the shape of
                                    a bill to relieve that Railroad Company. He would vote for the
                                    resolution.
                                Mr. HAVENS desired to know if this matter was not submitted by
                                    the proper authorities to be settled in the court?
                                Mr. HELLER could not answer as to that.
                                Mr. BEARSS moved that the resolution, be referred to the
                                        Committee on Railroads.
                                Mr. WILLIAMS, of Brown, was persuaded that a large sum of money
                                    is due from that Railroad Company to the School Fund, and would
                                    vote for the resolution.
                                Mr. EDWARDS had but partial information of the tacts, and
                                    introduced the resolution that the House might be fully advised.
                                    Mr. KENNEDY of Montgomery understood that the Attorney General
                                    has brought suit against the Railroad company; and, with that
                                    state of facts, he supposed the House has nothing now to do with
                                    it.
                                Mr. BENCE moved that the resolution be postponed; which he
                                    subsequently withdrew.
                                Mr. FORKNER preferred an amendment instructing the Attorney
                                    General to report the facts. He made that motion.
                                Mr. BEARSS withdrew the motion to refer: the amendment making it
                                    directory to the Attorney General was adopted; and then the
                                    resolution as amended was adopted.
                                Mr MORGAN introduced a bill [H. R. 132] for an act to prevent the
                                    indiscriminate shooting into wild pigeons when they are nesting,
                                    and fixing a penalty therefor, and declaring an emergency.
                                He also presented the petition of certain citizens of Hendricks
                                    county for the passage of this bill.
                                Mr. HORN introduced a bill [H.R. 133] for an act to regulate the
                                    sale of real estate and personal property for purposes of
                                    taxation, providing for the election of Assessors and fixing
                                    their compensation. [County assessors to be elected for six
                                    years, and Township assessors for two years- in the
                                    equalizations, real property to be assessed at half value, and
                                    personal property at full value.]
                                Mr. KENNEDY of Marion submitted a motion, ineffectually, to lay
                                    it on the table.
                                Mr. COLLINS introduced a bill [H. R, 134] for an act to amend an
                                    act to amend the 17th section of an act providing for the
                                    organization of county Boards, and prescribing some of their
                                    duties, approved June 17, 1852, and March 4, 1869. [County
                                    Boards may borrow money to the, extent of one per cent of the
                                    assessment value of county property.]
                                Mr. DARNALL presented the memorial of the County Commissioners,
                                    Township Trustees and Justices of the Peace of Clark county
                                    against the passage of Mr. Davis' bill [H. R. 86] for the
                                    abolition of the Floyd and Clark Criminal Circuit; which was
                                    referred to Committee on the Organization of Courts of
                                        Justice.
                                Mr. PATE introduced a bill [H. R. 135] for an act regulating the
                                    public sale of real estate, and defining the duty Sheriffs
                                    therein.
                                Mr. KENNEDY of Marion introduced a bill [H. R. 136] for an act to
                                    provide for the speedy collection of money due to laborers from
                                    those by whom they are employed. [To be no stay of execution
                                    sale in five days-without benefit of valuation and appraisement
                                    laws.]
                                The foregoing bills were severally passed to the second
                                    reading.
                            
                            
                                COMMITTEE CLERK - SECRETARY.
                                Mr. DAVIS submitted a resolution, that the Committee on
                                        the Judiciary be authorized to employ a Clerk to
                                    enable them to fully discharge their duties.
                                Mr. HELLER and others objecting, that the order would be an
                                    infraction of law -
                                Mr. HAVENS suggested to substitute, That the Committee
                                        on Judiciary be instructed to report a bill to
                                    authorize the needful Committee Clerks.
                                The SPEAKER suggested the readier  say - to change the resolution so
                                    as to read "Secretary," instead of "Clerk."
                                Mr. DAVIS accepted the modification; and moved that the
                                        Committee on Ways and Means be included
                                    in the resolution; that they may also have a Secretary.
                                Mr. CALDWELL. The duties of the Committee on Ways and
                                        Means, of which he is chairman, absolutely require
                                    that we shall have a Secretary.
                                Mr. LANHAM. No doubt both these committees need a clerk or
                                    secretary; but it becomes us to be economical - with all
                                    deference to the views of the Chair and gentlemen he objected to
                                    the avoidance of the law by the using of "Secretary" instead of
                                    "Clerk." He demanded the yeas and nays on the question: but the
                                    second not rising for the demand, the resolution, as - modified
                                    and amended was adopted on division - affirmative 38, negative
                                    28.
                                Mr. MARTIN of Wells, from the Committee on the
                                        Judiciary (by unanimous consent) now reported on
                                    Mr. Davis' resolution of inquiry addressed to that committee as
                                    to vacancy in the trusteeship of the Institution for the
                                    Education of the Blind, that there is but one trustee for that
                                    Institution to be elected at the present session, and that is to
                                    fill the vacancy to be made by the expiration of the term of Mr.
                                    Byfield, and he reported a resolution to that effect, which was
                                    adopted.
                                Mr. ROMINE (by request) introduced a joint resolution [H. R, No.
                                    4 ] for instructions, etc., for a law to equalize the bounty
                                    amongst all honorably discharged soldiers of the war for the
                                    Union.
                                The House then adjourned
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    VOLUME FIFTEEN.
                    INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            TUESDAY, January 15, 1875.
                        
                        
                            
                        
                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES
                            Mr. JOHNSTON of Parke from the Committee of the
                                    Judiciary returned his bill [S. 58} supplemental to
                                the voluntary assignment act of March 5, 1859, with amendment
                                striking out the words "upon petition of such trustee, and."
                            Mr. BOONE from the Committee on Agriculture
                                returned Mr. LaRue's Cherokee of Texas Cattle fever bill [S.
                                56-decided on page 24 of these reports] with a clerical
                                amendment.
                            These reports were severally concurred in.
                        
                        
                            STATE PRISON DIRECTORS - SOUTH.
                            Mr. LARCE, from the committe thereon, returned Mr. Friedley of
                                Lawrence's concurrent resolution for the election of two Director's
                                for the Southern State Prison, and Mr. Harney's proposed ammendment
                                thereto, (see page 25 of these reports,) with a report that they
                                have examined this subject; that the two vacancies shown have
                                occurred in the Board of Directors of said Prison, to be filled by
                                the Legislature, but that there is great doubt thrown upon this
                                matter and the disposition to be made of it by the action of the
                                Legislature of 1873. Two Directors were chosen in 1873, but who is
                                to suceed W.W. Curry and which R. S. Heiskeil is the question in
                                doubt. The report shows that the Senate Journal and the House
                                Journal for the same session, states the same transactions, in
                                different terms and the entry of the declaration of elections of
                                each House is Consistent with the entry of the nominations.
                            Mr.LaRUE. In reporting upon this matter, we simply submitted the
                                facts in the case. The difficulty grows out of the action of the
                                Legislature in the year 1873. The Senate Journal of proceedings in
                                joint convention names one man for the long term, and the House
                                Journal of the same proceedings names another;which is to have the
                                preference is the question. It seems to me that there should be some
                                legislation to get rid of this difficulty. There is no action
                                recommended by the committee.
                            Mr. HARNEY. Around the record as it appears in the Journals of the
                                two Houses it is impossible to go. Both records are equally
                                conclusive in law, yet stating facts diametrically opposed to each
                                other. This makes a state of affairs that seems difficult to
                                overcome. It is evident to my mind that these records have been
                                tampered with in one House or the other. It would not be fair to
                                suffer both these gentlemen t continue in office, especially while
                                it would seem that they or some of their friends in some way or
                                other, have tampered with the record. The matter must be got through
                                some way, and I think we should elect two directors.
                            Mr. WILSON [interposing.] With the  gentleman's permission, I will more that this whole matter be
                                referred to the Attorney General.
                            Mr. HARNEY. I do not think the Attorney General can decide a question
                                where the records are diametrically opposed to each other. I see no
                                other way to settle the question than by Legislation or some
                                arbitrary manner.
                            Mr. SMITH. I move to refer this matter back to the committee with
                                instructions to prepare a bill that will obviate this difficulty. I
                                insist that the gentlemen who had this matter in hand, should arrive
                                at some conclusion; and if legislation is needed, let them present a
                                bill, that will cover the case.
                            Mr. SLEETH. As stated by the Senator from Montgomery, [Mr. Harney]
                                there is a conflict between the records of the two Houses. The
                                Journal of the House hows one state of facts, and the Journal of the
                                Senate shows another in reference to the same transaction. Both
                                cannot be true. It seems to me the only way to get the facts in the
                                case, where the records do act show the truth, is to take the sense
                                and recollection of those who were present at the lime, and throw
                                that in with the Journal that supports and corroborates such
                                testimony, and act upon that. This committee might proceed in that
                                way.
                            Mr. LaRUE, [interposing.] Where do we get authority to take outside
                                testimony to correct the Journal if we found it wrong?
                            Mr. SLEETH. It would not be correcting the Journal, but ascertaining
                                a fact which one Journal shows and another contradicts. We can act
                                upon the truth, although our Journals may show that which is not
                                true.
                            Mr SMITH. Let the committee take the papers and report a bill to
                                remedy the evil, and, if necessary, send for persons and for
                                persons.
                            Mr. LARUE. I do not think it will be necessary to Send for persons
                                and for papers. We can't change the evidence. We could abolish the
                                office and get rid of it in that way, but is it desirable? It seems
                                to me the easiest way to get rid of this matter is to require that
                                two be elected at the next session of the Legislature, and one now.
                                I do not think we can take outside testimony to determine a question
                                where we have conclusive evidence The evidence is the record in the
                                journals. It is conclusive; and having conclusive evidence both
                                ways, how are we to decide? It is positive that Mr. Hill was elected
                                for four years, and just as positive that Mr. Munson was, when one
                                ought to have been elected for four years and one for two years.
                                Suppose we enact a law declaring that one of these men are not in
                                office, would the Supreme Court pay much attention to it? Had we
                                better not avoid litigation by electing one now and two at the next
                                General Assembly?
                            Mr. SCOTT. The Journal can't declare how long an officer is elected
                                for. It is the succession that - controls, and if you can make out
                                the succession that is all you want to know.
                            Mr. BELL. Does the journal show one or two vacancies?
                            Mr. LaRUE. Both journals show two vacancies, but the difficulty is
                                not there.
                            Mr. DYKEMAN. It is clear to my mind that there are two vacancies,
                                then why fill but one? We should decide this question, and not leave
                                it to the courts. If we adopt the resolution of the gentleman from
                                Lawrence [Mr. Friedley] we will hold a man in office two years
                                longer that he was elected for. Let's stand by the record we have
                                made. Possibly the House will find out that our record is right.
                                Shall we allow ourselves to raise a question as to the correctness
                                of our own record, simply because some other body has made a
                                different? I never heard of any nunc pro tunes
                                going into legislative bodies before. That is a new thing. Now I am
                                in favor of standing by our own record, and I am much more in favor
                                of doing it from the fact that the message of the Governor shows
                                that there is something rotten, in that Denmark on the Ohio river.
                                Hence I think the amendment of the Senator from Montgomery [Mr.
                                Harney] should prevail.
                            Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Lawrence. The Senator from Cass [Mr. Dykeman] says
                                the effect of my resolution is to continue the term of an officer
                                two years beyond the time for which he was elected. I would like to
                                know where the Senator gets the authority for making that assertion?
                                I understand that both these gentlemen were commissioned for the
                                term of four years less than two years ago. Then is it true that my
                                resolution proposes to continue a man in office after his term of
                                office has expired? Until there is some legal proceeding had showing
                                their commissions were improperly issued, I take it that these
                                officers would hold, and I take it that it is not the effect of my
                                resolution to continue an officer in office after his term
                                expires.
                            Suppose we elect two Directors and the contested case is taken to the
                                courts. If the plaintiff succeeds, he must succeed by a
                                preponderance of evidence. He brings in one Legislative journal to
                                show that he is the successor of Mr. Hill; and the defendant brings
                                in the other journal show  ing
                                the opposite. One carries with it just as much weight as the other,
                                and so the plaintiff fails because he has no preponderance of
                                evidence. I think the Senator from Montgomery [Mr. Harney] is right,
                                when he says there should be some legislation to settle this
                                question. - I have no doubt, indeed, I am informed that the original
                                minutes, taken by our assistant Secretary are still in existence,
                                and if they show on their face that there have been no interlination
                                or erasures, it will be strong evidence that our record is correct I
                                believe, under all the circumstances that this resolution should be
                                referred back to the committee.
                            Mr. HARNEY asked and obtained leave to substitute for his amendment
                                the following; - differing only in phraseology: - "By inserting:
                                Elect two Directors for the State Prison, south, one to succeed John
                                Kirk, and the other to succeed a vacancy that may occur"
                            Mr. LaRUE. Is it customary to elect an officer to fill a vacancy,
                                that we see no provision of law which is likely to occur?
                            Mr. HARNEY. It is to elect to fill the first vacancy that may
                                occur.
                            The motion [Mr. Smith's] to refer the motion back to the Special
                                Committee with instruction to prepare a bill covering the case - was
                                agreed to
                        
                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE GOVERNOR.
                            By the hand of SAMUEL R. DOWNEY, Esq., Executive Messenger, announced
                                the approving and signing of Mr. Dykeman's bill [S. 33]
                                appropriating $125,000 for Legislative expenses. His Excellency also
                                transmitted a communication accompanying a copy of a report of the
                                Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad Company made to him.
                        
                        
                            LIABILITY OF CLERKS.
                            Mr. LaRUE submitted a resolution instructing the Committee
                                    on the Judiciary to inquire into the expediency of
                                enacting a law making the sureties of clerks of Circuit Courts
                                liable upon their official bonds, jointly with their principals, for
                                monies paid into the courts in partition and other cases, and monies
                                paid into the court for the satisfaction of Judgements, or by
                                administrators or executors in part settlement of estates.
                            Mr. BELL. I hope that resolution will be promptly adopted, and a bill
                                in accordance therewith promptly reported by the committee, and as
                                promptly passed by this General Assembly. Our courts have acted upon
                                the assumption that such is now the law, but he Supreme Courts has
                                indicated recently, that its decision would be to the contrary; and
                                inasmuch as large sums of money are being continually paid into
                                courts upon the assumption that clerks and their assurities are
                                liable, I hope no delay will be had in this matter.
                            The resolution was adopted.
                        
                        
                            SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION,
                            Mr, SLEETH submitted a resolution, which was adopted, reciting the
                                facts connected with the creation of the office of Superintendent of
                                Public Instruction, the election of the late incumbent, the
                                appointment to fill the vacancy caused by his death, the election
                                last October of his successor, and calling upon the Attorney General
                                for an opinion as to whether the Governor had power to fill the
                                vacancy beyond the general election, and as to what is the legal
                                status of the office.
                        
                        
                            TOWNSHIP ELECTIONS.
                            Mr. HACKLEMAN submitted a resolution, instructing the
                                    Committee on Elections to inquire into the
                                expediency of changing the time of electing township officers from
                                October to the first Monday in April, or any other subsequent time;
                                and also, as to the propriety of each road district electing its own
                                supervisor.
                            It was adopted.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            Mr. GOODING introduced a bill [S. 102] for an act to require township
                                trustees to levy a tax of fifty cents on each [$100] one hundred
                                dollars worth of taxable property to pay debts incurred in the
                                building of school houses [each year until such debts are paid.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Education.
                            Mr. LaRUE introduced a bill [S. 103] for an act to enable
                                administrators appointed by the authority of other States to lands
                                to pay debts, and declaring an emergency.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. SLATER introduced a bill [S. 104] for an act to provide for the
                                speedy collection of wages due to laborers for labor performed by
                                them for their employers. [Shall pay the full amount due once a
                                month in lawful money of the United States.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. BAXTER introduced a bill [S. 105] for an act requiring county
                                Auditors to publish a statement of all allowances made by County
                                Commissioners [in the newspaper having the largest circulation in
                                the county.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the committee on
                                    County and Township Business.
                            
                            Mr. GIVAN introduced a bill [S. 106] for an act to authorize
                                incorporated towns to negotiate and sell bonds to procure means with
                                which to complete public buildings, and to levy additional tax for
                                the purpose of paying such bonds [not to exceed fifty cents on each
                                one hundred dollars of taxable property, and one dollar on each
                                poll.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.
                            Mr. DAGGY introduced a bill [S. 107] for an act to amend section 6 of
                                the Divorce law. [Striking out the provision that when divorces are
                                procured on notice by publication, the applicant shall not marry for
                                two years.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. SLEETH introduced a bill [S. 108] for an act to amend an act
                                incorporating the Indiana Fire and Marine Insurance Company,
                                approved February 13, 1851.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Insurance.
                            Mr. OLIVER introduced a bill [S. 109] for an act making it a
                                misdemeanor for any one having a wife or a wife and children, to
                                abandon the same without just and reasonable means of support.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. WILSON introduced a bill [S. 11C] for an act to limit the number
                                ot Grand and Petit Jurors in this State [to six persons.]
                            It was said the first time, and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. MAJOR introduced a bill [S. III] for an act allowing the same
                                defence to notes and bills of exchange made payable in bank that are
                                allowed by law to such paper not made payable in bank.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Banks.
                            Mr. CHAPMAN introduced a bill [S. 112] for an act to create the
                                forty-first Judicial Circuit, to amend sections 34 and 39 of an act,
                                to divide the State into Judicial Circuits, approved March 6, 1873;
                                also to provide for the holding of courts in the 33rd, 38th and 41st
                                Judicial Circuits. [The county of Alien to constitute the 38th, the
                                counties of Kosciusko and Whitley, the 33rd, and the counties of
                                Marshall and Fulton the 41st.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Organization of Courts of Justice.
                            Mr. STOCKSLAGER introduced a bill [S. 113] for an act to amend
                                section 219 of the Civil Code of the State, and declares an
                                    emergency. [It provides that the statue of
                                limitations shall not commence to run in any case where the person
                                against whom a cause of action exists, shall conceal the same from
                                the person entitled thereto, until the expiration of the period ot
                                limitation after the discovery of the cause of action against such
                                person.]
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.
                            Mr. HOWARD introduced a bill [S. 114] for an act to amend section one
                                of an act to enable incorporated towns to lay out, open, grade and
                                improve streets, alleys, etc., approved April 27, 1869.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.
                        
                        
                            ASSIGNEES' SALES.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON, of Parke. Senate bill No, 68 to amend the assignment
                                law, has been reported back from the Judiciary
                                    Committee, and with the consent of the Senate, I would
                                like to take it up and put it on its passage. It is to amend the
                                10th section of the assignment act. As the law now stands, in sales
                                of real estate, the trustee has no power to extend a credit beyond
                                nine months. This bill provides that the court having jurisdiction,
                                may order a private sale when it can be sold at its appraised value,
                                and extend the credit on the last payment to two years.
                            The bill was read the second time; and, under a dispensation of the
                                constitutional restriction, - yeas 39, nays 4, it was read the third
                                time, and finally passed the Senate by yeas 42, nays 0.
                        
                        
                            LEAVES OF ABSENCE
                            Were asked and obtained for Mr. Cree (in poor health) till Tuesday
                                morning, and for Messrs. Ringo and Humphrey, till Monday noon.
                            And then the Senate took a recess till two o'clock p. m.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the Chair at 2 o'clock, p. m.
                            Mr. DAGGY demanded a call of the Senate and it being taken discovered
                                but thirty-five Senators present and answering to their names.
                            Further proceedings under the call were dispensed with.
                            Mr. FRIEDLEY, of Scott, introduced a bill [S. 115] for an act to
                                provide for the sale of property held in trust in certain cases
                                therein provided.
                            It was read the first time and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.

                            
                                DECEDENTS' ESTATE.
                                Mr. BOONE submitted the following:
                                
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Rights and Privileges of the
                                                  Inhabitants of the State, be, and they
                                                are hereby instructed to inquire into the expediency
                                                of so amending the law of decedents and the law
                                                providing for the settlement of decedents estates,
                                                as to provide that in case of the death of the wife
                                                of the decedent before him and there are surviving
                                                the deceased father one or more infant children,
                                                under the age of ten years, that the five hundred
                                                dollars which would have been the individual right
                                                in the personal property of the surviving widow,
                                                shall descend to and be invested in the said minor
                                                child, or children in the same manner and to the
                                                same extent as to the widow of the said decedent,
                                                and that they report by bill or otherwise at an
                                                early day.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                He said: I desire to say with regard to this matter that, of
                                    course the provision of five hundred dollars is intended for the
                                    benefit of the widow and minor children. I have found cases,
                                    where within a few days or even hours, of the death of the
                                    father, the mother has died, leaving sometimes, three or four
                                    children, all of them under ten years of years of age, where the
                                    creditors would come in and take the entire estate. Very often
                                    it is a small estate and the children become subjects of
                                    individual charity, and are soon sent to the public poor house.
                                    I know of at least three cases in my district, where children
                                    were left absolutely without any provision for their maintenance
                                    by this accidental death of their mother, when if she had lived,
                                    there would have been five hundred dollars in her hands for the
                                    support of her minor children. I submit this as a matter of
                                    inquiry to this honorable committee.
                                The resolution was adopted.
                                Mr. OLIVER introduced a bill [S. 116] to establish a State Board
                                    of Health, to provide for the appointment of a Superintendent of
                                    vital Statictics, and to assign certain duties to local Boards
                                    of Health. [The Board to consist of seven members - six
                                    appointees of the Governor - to elect its Secretary who shall be
                                    the seventh member and Superintendent of vital statistics.]
                                It was read the first time and referred to the Committee
                                        on Rights and Privileges of the Inhabitants of the
                                        State.
                            
                            
                                DOG TAX.
                                Mr. HUMPHREYS. Seeing from the State Auditor's Report that
                                    $200,000 was collected last year on account of dog tax, and
                                    thinking possibly that the money has been squandered, offered a
                                    resolution, which was adopted, instructing the Auditor of State
                                    to report to the Senate the amount of dog tax collected since
                                    1865.
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. SLATER introduced a joint resolution [S. 4] for transferring
                                    business pertaining to the Sinking Fund, from the State
                                    Treasurer's office to the office of Auditor of State. He said:
                                    These papers are scattered all around - some of them in the
                                    Treasurer's office, some of them in one building and some in
                                    another. Often people come to the Auditors office to look after
                                    some matters pertaining to this fund, which can not be
                                    found.
                                It was read the first time, and referred to the
                                        Committee on Finance.
                                Mr. JOHNSTON, of Parke, introduced a bill [S. 117] for an act to
                                    amend section 19 of an act prescribing the powers and duties of
                                    Justices of the Peace in State prosecutions, approved May 29,
                                    1852. [To enable Justices to collect costs in such cases.]
                                It was read the first time and referred to the Committee
                                        on the Judiciary.
                            
                            
                                REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                Mr. GOODING, chairman of the committee on Organization
                                        of Courts of Justice; returned Mr. Beardsley's
                                    34th Circuit Court bill [S. 25, described on page 17 of these
                                    Reports] with a recommendation for its passage.
                                Mr. CHAPMAN, chairman of the Committee on
                                        Finance, returned Mr. Roe's members per diem bill [S. 8, described on page 6 of these
                                    Reports] with a recommendation that it be referred to the
                                        committee on Fees and Salaries.
                                He also returned his bank-fund transfer bill [S. 81, described on
                                    page 48 of these Reports] with a recommendation that it do
                                    pass.
                                These reports were severally concurred in.
                                And then the Senate adjourned till Monday two o'clock p. m.
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            FRIDAY, January 15, 1875.
                        
                        The House met at 9 o'clock, a. m.
                        The SPEAKER directing the order of prayer by Rev. Mr. Dean, and the
                            reading of the Journal of yesterday.
                        
                            CLERK - SECRETARY.
                            Mr. HELLER submitted a motion to reconsider the vote of yesterday,
                                adopting Mr. Davis' resolution, authorizing a Secretary for the
                                    committee on the Judiciary, and
                                    committee on Ways and Means. He was not
                                opposed to granting the clerical aid to the committees, but the
                                action on its face was to avoid the terms of the law, and besides,
                                because we have no contingent fund, we cannot pay for the service of
                                these clerks.
                            
                            Mr. DAKNALL. We must have these clerks. It was the argument of
                                necessity. The pay could be provided for by law.
                            Mr. HELLER'S object was simply to get at the service in the legal
                                way.
                            Mr. LANHAM stated the presumption that we can get along at present
                                without these additional clerks.
                            Mr. HAVENS. We have two things here standing as principles - one is
                                to be economical; the other, to keep the law.
                            The Republicans passed this law 2 years ago, and he was informed that
                                they did not heed it. He referred to the fact that the Speaker then
                                had a clerk, (and perhaps our Speaker ought to have one now,) but
                                how he was paid he did not know. Their act, however, is not any
                                warrant for us. One thing is certain, we should not let it go to the
                                country that we are avoiding the law by using the word
                                "Secretary."
                            Mr. KENNEDY, of Montgomery, was here to stand up for good pay for the
                                service ot members, and with equal earnestness he should insist that
                                members do their work promptly and well. Believing that we can get
                                along without more clerks for the present, he would oppose the
                                reconsideration.
                            Mr. JOHNSON, of Carroll, was decidedly in favor of the
                                reconsideration, and opposed to all shifts of ingenuity to avoid the
                                law.
                            Mr. DAVIS had stated yesterday the principle that every legislative
                                body has the inherent power to employ every needful assistance,
                                whether in the House or on the committees. There is no question
                                about this, either in law or in any other way. But if it is the
                                desire of the House that these committees have no clerks, he would
                                like to have it distinctly expressed, and if that vote of yesterday
                                be reconsidered, as it probably would be, he gave notice of
                                amendment to the resolution by which we might'have that clear
                                expression of the House.
                            Mr. HELLER made the point again, that we have no contingent fund out
                                if which to pay for the proposed service. Let us have a law in this
                                case so that we can get at the matter without difficulty.
                            The SPEAKER. There is not the slightest difficulty in the law about
                                this action. The law does not say that no more clerks shall be
                                appointed. It does not take away from the House, the power to
                                appoint. There is no absolute prohibition, it is simply
                                directory.
                            Mr. HAVENS demanded the yeas and nays on the reconsideration, and the
                                vote was reconsidered, by yeas 65, nays 30, and the question
                                recurred on the adoption of Mr. Davis' resolution.
                            Mr. DAVIS now proposed to modify the resolution so as to make it
                                directory to the Judiciary committee to report a
                                bill authorizing the committees on Ways and
                                Means, and on the Judiciary, each to
                                employ a clerk. He desired this to test the sense of the House. He
                                desired to know whether the House would be in favor of the passage
                                of such a bill. He demanded the yeas and nays on the question.
                            Mr. HELLER moved to amend further adding authority for the employment
                                of other clerks.
                            Mr. CALDWELL. The statute does not say that there shall not be any
                                more clerks, and the House has the inherent power to authorize just
                                as many clerks as may be actually required. He concluded therefore
                                that it is now in the power of the House to give these two
                                committees each an additional clerk.
                            Mr. TRUSLER was as ready and willing as any member to render all the
                                assistance needed by the committees, but could not vote for a
                                proposition to violate the law.
                            The SPEAKER reminded the gentleman from Fayette, that it is not in
                                order to reflect upon the action of the House.
                            Mr. TRUSLER simply asked to be permitted to read from the statutes
                                that they shall employ clerks "not to exceed" the number prescribed
                                in particular.
                            Mr. HAVENS insisted upon the strict language of the statute just
                                quoted. The Legislature two years ago had the power to pass this
                                law, and we have the power to amend it; but he could not subscribe
                                to the doctrine that this House may in practice over-ride the law.
                                It would be a dangerous precedent - one that would come back to
                                plague us in the future. He did not believe that, under the statute,
                                this House has the power to employ clerks beyond the number
                                prescribed, and he was opposed to "whipping the devil around the
                                stump."
                            Mr. MARTIN, of Wells, was willing for the present to try and get
                                along without any additional clerical help, and whenever he found
                                that he could not discharge his duty, both in the House and on the
                                committee, he might vote for the proposed law.
                            Mr. FORKNER submitted a resolution, requesting the committee
                                    on the Judiciary and the committee on Ways
                                    and Means to report to the House as to the necessity
                                of each of said committees employing a clerk or secretary.
                            Mr. TAYLOR, of Tipton, could not vote for any violation of law, but,
                                if these committees report to the House that they have  actual need of help, he would vote
                                them help.
                            On motion of Mr, WATERMAN, the resolution, amendments, and the whole
                                subject were laid on the table.
                        
                        
                            PROSECUTIONS BY INFORMATION.
                            On motion of Mr. KENNEDY, of Montgomery, his bill [H. R 30] to
                                provide for the commencement of criminal procutions by information,
                                was taken up and considered on the third and last reading.
                            Mr. KENNEDY, of Montgomery. The object and purpose of the bill is to
                                obviate the necessity of having the grand jury called together so
                                often. If this bill become a law it will obviate the necessity,
                                except at remote periods to call the grand jury. At present the
                                grand jury has to be called often, not - unfrequently, three or four
                                times during the same term, because there is no statute or other
                                provision by which a criminal prosecution can be commenced than by
                                indictment of a grand jury. It will save thousands of dollars
                                annually to the treasury.
                            Mr. HAVENS. This bill was not reported upon with his approbation as a
                                member of the Judiciary committee. It involves
                                serious questions too serious to be acted on hastily. The grand jury
                                system has stood for hundreds of years, and the attack upon it and
                                approaches for its overthrow should be taken with careful steps.
                                Justice is now administered as readily in the State of Indiana as
                                anywhere. This bill will create a kind of espoinagean objectionable
                                inquisitorial power will be placed in the hands of the Prosecuting
                                Attorney. It makes of that officer, a kind of high court of
                                inquisition, to call upon men and compel them to leave their
                                business and testify. There may be some counties in which it would
                                not much-effect the public service, but in the larger cities as
                                Indianapolis and Terre Haute, it might work very badly in the hands
                                of a designing Prosecutor. It was taking too long a stride toward
                                the destruction of the grand jury system.
                            Mr. KENNEDY, of Marion, was in favor of wiping out all old fogyism,
                                such as our grand jury system. That system costs too much. It
                                requires too large a fraction of the taxation to support it. This
                                bill would be not only cheaper in its operation for the criminal
                                administration of the laws, but it would be better also for the
                                prisoner, by giving him his trial at once. In his judgment the Judge
                                would be as competent to the trial as the jury, and the Prosecutor
                                as competent and satisfactory for the presentment as the grand
                                jury.
                            Mr. WILLETT moved that the bill be laid on the table and printed.
                            Mr. KENNEDY, of Montgomery, opposed the motion to print, and all
                                motions for delay.
                            Mr. FORKNER hoped the bill would be passed without delay. It will be
                                just as efficient as the grand jury system, and much more
                                economical. There would be less expense, and the defendant would
                                have a better chance of knowing what is being done in his case than
                                he would by carrying it before the grand jury. He saw in the bill
                                neither hardship nor injury.
                            Mr. RATLIFF of Wayne spoke in favor of the motion to print desiring
                                more time to investigate the bill.
                            Mr. HELLER. One part of this bill would compel him to vote against
                                it. Whenever you give the prosecuting attorney this power, with the
                                fees attached, he might commence numerous prosecutions that would
                                not stick. He gave his knowledge of the practice of a deputy
                                prosecutor in his county, who took it upon himself large
                                responsibility in this direction.
                            Mr. DARNALL. Here is a proposition for reform, if it is a reform, in
                                the right direction - in the direction of economy as well as
                                directness and readiness in the matter of trial. Whilst it did not
                                abolish the grand jury system, it afforded a means of proscution
                                without it. The grand jury is an ex parte court, and hence the
                                reason that so small a percentage of their indictments stick. - As
                                it is at present, it is well known that the grand jury is governed
                                by the opinion of the prosecuting attorney, and therefore the same
                                objections that are urged against this reform might arise against
                                the grand jury system itself. As to corruption in regard to the
                                Prosecutor, the Judge would take care of that; and corruption can
                                hardly be supposed in the Judge and the Prosecutor at the same
                                time.
                            Mr. CLARK believed that the pending bill is less liable to the charge
                                of being inquisitorial than the Grand Jury system. He was especially
                                in favor of the principle of economy involved. He preferred it to
                                his own bill looking toward reform in that direction, because better
                                matured. He did not favor the entire abolition of the grand jury
                                system.
                            Mr. ROSEBERRY had seen something of the working of the Grand Jury
                                system, and came here in favor of its abolition. It may have once
                                worked well; but he regarded it as a bad thing for us. Any system
                                that puts in jeopardy the rights of the citizen, and deprives him of
                                the immediate right to confront his accusers with witnesses was
                                unfit for this age. To say nothing about their expensiveness, he was
                                entirely opposed to Grand Juries, and  the Grand Jury System. Like our
                                toppling old Statehouse, it has served its day.
                            Mr. MARTIN of Wells thought, that: when we take a step for reform we
                                should not take such a one as would place an officer of the law in a
                                false position. He should not be left with a discretion to prosecute
                                or not. There should be such an amendment to the bill as this, That
                                if information be given to the prosecutor, on affidavit, he shall
                                proceed to prosecute, etc.
                            Mr. LANHAM considered that this is a question of so much importance
                                that nothing can be lost by taking time for examination. Though
                                himself a man of progress he found himself far in the rear of many
                                in this House in regard to the abolition of the Grand Jury
                                system.
                            Mr. DAVIS. The Grand Jury system is one of the safeguards of liberty,
                                and woe be to this country when it is stricken down. Without the
                                Grand Jury, how would you enforce the Baxter or any other of the
                                liquor or Sunday laws? He gave examples. But now the witnesses can
                                go to the prosecutor, and they are bound to go to the Grand Jury,
                                without the least occasion for the censure of their neighbors. Under
                                this bill, perhaps, prosecutions might be as frequent as under the
                                Grand Jury. However, he was willing to go the length proposed by the
                                bill of the gentleman from Montgomery; and that was the extent to
                                which he would be willing to go in that direction. He gave other
                                examples of warning to gentlemen of radical ideas against the Grand
                                Jury system.
                            Mr. KENNEDY of Montgomery. This bill does not propose to abolish the
                                Grand Jury system; its sole object being to dispense with the
                                frequent calling of the Grand Jury by the Judge, - perhaps it might
                                not be necessary in some counties to call the Grand Jury more than
                                once in four or five years. As to the objection on account of weak
                                and corrupt Prosecuting Attorneys, - the people elect these
                                prosesecutors, - and the same objection could be raised against the
                                law for the election of Judges by the people.
                            Mr. HAVENS. It was dangerous to trust too much power in the hands of
                                an individual, or in the hands of the few. It was plain that the
                                rights of the people were more safe in the hands of twelve men than
                                in the handset one If the Grand Jury has protected the people in the
                                past, he could see neither the wisdom nor the safety of this bill.
                                If he understood the bill, the prosecutor has the right to go at any
                                time before a justice and compel any man to appear and testify.
                            Mr WOODY looked upon the bill as a compromise between the extreme
                                views of those who oppose and those who desire the retention of the
                                Grand Jury system. This then is a step in the right direction - to
                                learn how to do this little criminal business cheaper, and perhaps
                                just as well; and he gave the reasons why he should support the
                                bill.
                            Mr. MORGAN asked whether it would not be virtually to abolish the
                                Grand Juries by leaving it to the judge when they shall be called
                                together. Might it not be safe to provide specifically now often, or
                                in what contingency, the judge shall call the Grand Jury.
                            Mr. KENNEDY, of Montgomery. The law now requires the judge to call
                                the Grand Jury once in five years; and this bill does not interfere
                                with that.
                            Mr. MORGAN. There should be some provision which should compel
                                prosecutions.
                            Mr WILLIAMS, of Brown, cautiously advised against hasty action, -
                                would retain the Grand Jury for Felony cases, and place the rest of
                                its business where the processes might be cheaper and more
                                expeditious.
                            Mr JOHNSON, of Carroll, was in favor of the bill because it would
                                save expense, and because it would prevent the jail incarcerat on of
                                innocent individuals under the groundless indictment of a Grand
                                Jury. The day has come when the Grand Jury should be either
                                partially or entirely abolished.
                            Mr. DARNALL was opposed to the Grand Jury system. He was pledged to
                                do away with the Grand Jury intervention in all cases of
                                misdemeanor. He was willing therefore to take this bill as a
                                compromise.
                            The motion to lay on the table and print was then adopted.
                        
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            Mr. HELLER introduced a bill [H. R. 137] for an act to amend section
                                4 of the act in relation to the organization of the two Houses of
                                the General Assembly, prescribing the number of officers and
                                employes of each House and regulating their duties, approved
                                December 28, 1872. [The Committees on the
                                    Judiciary and Ways and Means each
                                to have one clerk, and the other standing committees of the House to
                                be divided into three classes, with one clerk jointly to each class,
                                and three janitors to all the standing committees.
                            Mr. LEEPER introduced a bill [H R. 138] for an act to encourage the
                                destruction of wolves and foxes, repealing all laws and parts of
                                laws in conflict therewith, and declaring an emergency. [Ten dollars
                                for the wolf scalp, and five dollars for the fox.]
                            
                            Mr. HAVENS introduced a bill [H. R. 139] for an act denning the
                                liabilities of married woman on their contracts.
                            Mr. AMES presented the claim of Nicholas Shearer.
                            Mr. DAVIS presented a petition of the Mayor and Council of New Albany
                                for the repeal of the law creating "that Floyd and Clark Criminal
                                Circuit."
                            On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS, of Brown, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on the Organization of Courts of Justice
                                            be instructed to inquire into the expediency of such a
                                            modification of the Grand Jury system as that the Grand
                                            Jury shall take cognizance of felonies only, etc.
                                    
                                
                            
                            On motion of Mr. DAVIS, Mr. Anderson, of Tippecanoe, was added to the
                                    Committee on Education.
                            On motion of Mr. HELLER, Mr. Crane obtained leave of absence until
                                Monday.
                            Mr. DARNALL introduced a bill [H. R. 140] for an act to legalize
                                certain official acts of the Common Council of the city of Kokomo,
                                and other officers of said city.
                            The foregoing bills were severally read The first time and passed to
                                the second reading.
                            The House then took a recess till two o'clock, p. m.
                        
                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The SPEAKER resumed at two o'clock p. m,, and laid before the House
                                the report of the Doorkeeper on the expense of the committee rooms:
                                eight rooms in the Bates House furnished and attended for the
                                session - $1,000.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House sundry memorials of the National
                                Board of Trade of Chicago, signed by the President and Secretary
                                thereof, for a law to authorize incorporations of five persons,
                                either with or without liability beyond the amount of capital
                                subscribed and paid in; for a revision of the law regulating the
                                modes of railway transportations; for the enactment of a law
                                providing that all persons carrying on business as firms shall be
                                required to register with the County Clerk the name of such firms,
                                and of all persons interested therein, and they were severally
                                referred.
                            On motion of Mr. HELLER, his Legislative Committee Amendment bill [H.
                                R. 137] was taken up (the rules being suspended for the purpose) and
                                referrred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. PATTERSON obtained leave of absence till Tuesday.
                            Messrs. Forkner Leeper, Edwards. Kennedy of Morgan, McCord, and
                                Harris of Wayne presented Temperance petitions which were referred
                                to the Committee on Temperance.
                            On motion of Mr. JOHNSTON, of Dearborn, it was
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Fees and Salaries be requested to
                                            report a bill reducing the fees of the members of the
                                            Legislature and the State and county officers to the
                                            lowest rate of compensation necessary for the public
                                            service.
                                    
                                
                            
                            Mr. WALZ submitted a preamble and resolution reciting that sundry
                                bills for the protection of game have been referred to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture without provision to
                                prohibit the use of hounds, and instructing said committee to
                                incorporate into the bill on that subject which they shall report, a
                                clause to prohibit the use of hounds in chasing wild game.
                            It was rejected.
                            Mr. THOMAS submitted a resolution which was adopted, requesting the
                                    Judiciary Committee to examine into the
                                constitutionality of a law fixing stated salaries for county
                                officers of the State, grading said salaries into not less than
                                three grades, according to the population of the different counties,
                                so that each grade shall receive a just compensation for the service
                                and labor actually performed; and further, if the Judiciary
                                    Committee find that such a law would not be
                                constitutional, then said Committee are requested to report to this
                                House at some convenient time during the present session the
                                expediency of such an amendment to the constitution of the State of
                                Indiana as will admit of such a law.
                            Mr. EDWARDS introduced a bill [H. R. 141] for an act to repeal an act
                                to authorize aid to the construction of railroads by counties and
                                townships taking stock and making donations to railroad companies,
                                approved May 12, 1869.

                            
                                ORDERS FOR BUSINESS ON THE SPEAKER'S
                                    TABLE.
                                On motion of Mr. MARVIN, of Boone, the House now took up the
                                    consideration of business on the speaker's table.
                                Mr. Williams, of Brown's School Law amendment bill [H. R. 113]
                                    was referred to the committee on
                                    Education.
                                Mr. Cantley's Uniform Railroad Toll bill [H. R. 114] was referred
                                    to the committee on Agriculture.
                                Mr. Bearss' bill [H. R. 115] to prohibit the sale of drugs for
                                    criminal abortion was referred to the committee on
                                        Rights and Privileges.
                                Mr. Thomas' Foreign Merchandise License amendment bill [H. R.
                                    116] providing that the moneys collected for such license shall
                                    be diverted from the Agricul-  tural Societies to the School Fund, coming up -
                                Mr. CRUMPACKER moved that it be indefinitely postponed.
                                The motion was agreed to.
                                Mr. Waterman's Public Officers money custody bill [H. R. 117] was
                                    referred to the committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                                Mr. Ramsey's Attorney General act amendment bill [H, R. 119] was
                                    referred to the committee on Fees and
                                        Salaries.
                                Mr. Favorit's Justice Criminal Cases bill [H. R. 120] was
                                    referred to the committee on Rights and
                                        Privileges.
                                Mr. Snyder's Debt Recovery bill [H. R. 121] and Mr Kennedy
                                    of Montgomery's Two-thirds Jury Verdict bill [H. R 122]
                                    andMr. Burson's Practice act amendment bill [H. R. 123]
                                    andMr. Burson's Promisory Note amendment bill [H. R. 124]
                                    were referred to the committee on
                                    Judiciary.
                                Mr. Burson's Common School law amendment bill [H. R, 125] was
                                    referred to the Committee on Education
                                .Mr. Burson explained that this bill so dispenses with certain
                                    official services as to save a large amount of money, and moved,
                                    ineffectually, for a suspension of the rules so as to advance it
                                    one day on the calendar.
                                Mr. Reeder's Money Interest bill [H. R. 126] was referred to the
                                        committee on Rights and Privileges.
                                Mr. Redick's County Officers Fee bill [H. R. 127] was referred to
                                    the committee on County and Township
                                    business.
                                Mr. Taylor, of Tipton's General Banking act amendment bill [H. R.
                                    128] coming up.
                                Mr. TAYLOR gave reasons for his motion to order this bill to the
                                    engrossment, to turn over to the general fund above $2,000, and
                                    to avoid the payment of annual official salaries to the amount
                                    of $1,700.
                                Mr. HELLER objected to the passage of any bill without the
                                    searching scrutiny of a committee.
                                On motion of Mr. FORKNER, it was referred to the
                                        committee on Banks.
                                Mr. Haven's Fire and Marine Insurance amendment bill [H. R. 129]
                                    was referred to the committee on
                                    Insurance.
                                Mr. Cantley's Specific Articles Exemption bill [H. R, 130] was
                                    referred to the committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                                Mr. Kennedy, of Marion's Liquor bill [H. R. 131] was referred to
                                    the committee on Temperance.
                                Mr. Morgan of Hendricks' Pigeon Shooting bill [132] was referred
                                    to the committee on Right and Privileges.
                                Mr. Horn's Assessors bill [H R. 133] was referred to the
                                        committee on County and Township
                                    business.
                                Mr. Collins' County Boards act amendment bill [R. H. 134] was
                                    referred to the same committee.
                                Mr. Pate's bill regulating public sale of real estate [H. R. 135]
                                    was referred to the Committee on Ways and
                                        Means.
                                Mr. Kennedy of Marion's Laborer's Collection bill [H. R. 136] was
                                    referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.
                                Mr. Lanham's joint resolution No, 3, in relation to the death of
                                    the Hon. Milton B. Hopkins, Late Superintendent of Public
                                    Instruction, was ordered to be engrossed.
                                Mr. Romine's joint resolution No. 4, for Mexican War soldiers'
                                    bounty was referred to the Committee on Federal
                                        Relations.
                                The joint resolution [S. 2] to make temporary provision for the
                                    public printing, was referred to the Committee on
                                        Printing.
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr, HAVENS introduced a bill [H. R. 142] for an act defining the
                                    law of Libel and declaring penalties therefor. [Not exceeding
                                    one thousand dollars and six months imprisonment.]
                                Messrs. Evaus, Pfaflin and Caldwell obtained leave of absence
                                    till Monday.
                                Mr. FORKNER presented a temperance petition, which was referred
                                    to the Committee on Temperance.
                                Mr. LANHAM submitted a resolution, That the Committee on
                                        Fees and Salaries be requested to prepare a bill
                                    providing that members of the General Assembly shall provide
                                    themselves with stationery, and receive therefor a reasonable
                                    compensation out of the State Treasury.
                                Mr. DARNALL. There is a law requiring them to provide their own
                                    stationery.
                                Mr. LANHAM, Is there a law which provides that they shall have a
                                    reasonable compensation?
                                Mr. DARNALL. There is a law compelling them to furnish their own
                                    stationery.
                                Mr. LANHAM. Is there a law which provides that they shall have a
                                    reasonable compensation for it?
                                Mr. DARNALL That depends on what the gentleman esteems a
                                    reasonable compensation. There is a law for the allowance.
                                Mr. DAVIS was astonished at a proposition to increase the
                                    compensation of members; and on his motion the resolution was
                                    laid on the table.
                                Mr. HELLER introduced a bill [H. R. 143] for an act, prescribing
                                    the qualifica-  tions of
                                    Physicians and Surgeons, declaring who shall practice medicine
                                    and surgery, and who shall compound medicines - and who shall
                                    vend patent medicines - prescribing penalties and declaring an
                                    emergency.
                                Mr. Mason of Brown (by leave) reported the appointment of Thomas
                                    S. Bristow, as Clerk of the third group of Committees.
                                On motion of Mr. KENNEDY of Marion, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                Resolved, That the
                                                  Judiciary Committee be required
                                                to inquire into the power of the present General
                                                Assembly to repeal the act of 1872 making that
                                                unjust apportionment for representation in this
                                                State whereby fifteen thousand Democrats are
                                                disfranchised.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. GILBERT introduced a bill [H. R. 144] for an act to amend the
                                    act of 1865 to erect a State Normal School and adding
                                    supplemental sections, approved March, 1873. [It proposes an
                                    appropriation for the completion of the Normal School Building,
                                    and regulates the annual appropriation therefor.]
                                The foregoing bills were severally read and passed to the second
                                    reading.
                            
                            
                                LOCAL OPTION.
                                Mr. SMITH submitted a resolution instructing the
                                        Committee on Temperance to embrace a
                                    local option clause in all the bills they shall report for the
                                    regulating of the sale of intoxicating liquor.
                                Mr. DAVIS moved, ineffectually, to make it directory, instead of
                                    imperative.
                                On motion of Mr. BURSON it was laid on the table - yeas 57, nays
                                    35, as follows:
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Those voting in the affirmative are Messrs
                                            
                                                Bellows.
                                                Bence.
                                                Brown, of Jasper.
                                                Brown, of Rush.
                                                Burson.
                                                Caldwell.
                                                Cantley.
                                                Collins.
                                                Davidson.
                                                Davis.
                                                Edwards.
                                                Emerson.
                                                Evans.
                                                Gilbert.
                                                Harris, of Madison.
                                                Havens.
                                                Haynes.
                                                Heller.
                                                Henderson.
                                                Horn.
                                                Hopkins.
                                                Johnson, of Carroll.
                                                Johnston, of Dearborn.
                                                Keightley.
                                                Kennedy, of Marion.
                                                Law.
                                                Leeper.
                                                Martin, of Franklin.
                                                Martin, of Wells.
                                                Marvin, of Boone.
                                                Marvin, of Fountain.
                                                Meginity.
                                                Miller, of Parke.
                                                Miller, of Vanderburg.
                                                Montgomery.
                                                McCord.
                                                McMichael.
                                                Nash.
                                                Osborn.
                                                Pate.
                                                Peyatt.
                                                Pfaflin.
                                                Ramsey.
                                                Reddick.
                                                Reno.
                                                Romine.
                                                Shaw.
                                                Snyder.
                                                Taylor, of Daviess.
                                                Thompson, of Marion.
                                                Walz.
                                                Washburn.
                                                Waterman.
                                                Willett.
                                                Williams, of Brown.
                                                Speaker. - 57.
                                            
                                            Those voting in the negative are Messrs.
                                            
                                                Anderson.
                                                Barney.
                                                Charters.
                                                Clark.
                                                Crumpacker.
                                                Dale.
                                                Darnall.
                                                Favorit.
                                                Forkner.
                                                Fulk.
                                                Harper.
                                                Harris, of Wayne.
                                                Heighway.
                                                Jackson.
                                                Kennedy, of Montg'y.
                                                Kennedy, of Morgan.
                                                Lanham.
                                                Lincoln.
                                                Morgan.
                                                McFadden.
                                                Ratliff.
                                                Ragan.
                                                Reeder.
                                                Ribble.
                                                Roseberry.
                                                Shortridge.
                                                Smith.
                                                Taylor, of Tipton.
                                                Thomas.
                                                Thompson, of Henry.
                                                Trusler.
                                                Twibill.
                                                Williams, of Lawrence
                                                Woody.
                                                Wynn. - 35.
                                            
                                            Absent and not voting, Messrs.
                                            
                                                Ames.
                                                Bearss.
                                                Crane.
                                                Glasgow.
                                                Gossman,
                                                Patterson.
                                                Shafler.
                                                Shugart. - 8.
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. MARTIN of Wells introduced a bill [H. R. 145] for an act for
                                    the re-inbursment to Adams county certain taxes
                                    illegally assessed and collected for the year 1869, and paid
                                    into the State Treasury, (Five hundred and sixty-nine dollars
                                    and seventy-seven cents.]
                                Mr. BENCE introduced a bill [H. R. 146] for an act to amend
                                    section 22 of the act for the incorporation of towns, etc.,
                                    approved June 11, 1852. [To give more control to Town Boards
                                    over the sale of intoxicating liquors.]
                                Mr. HARRIS of Wayne introduced a bill [H. R. 147] for an act to
                                    amend an act regulating divorces, etc., approved March 7, 1873.
                                    [It provides that the parties may be witnesses in the case.]
                                On motion of Mr. KENNEDY, of Marion, it was
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                Resolved, That the
                                                  committee on the Judiciary be
                                                instructed to report a bill amending the Mechanics
                                                Lien law so as to apply to all classes of
                                                laborers.
                                        
                                    
                                
                                Mr. TWIBILL introduced a bill [H. R. 148] for an act to amend the
                                    8th section of the Divorce law.
                                The foregoing bills were severally passed to the second
                                    reading.
                                Mr. DALE, from a special committee appointed to report on the
                                    number and pay of the employees of the House, reported that the
                                    committee find one engrossing clerk, one enrolling clerk, one
                                    fireman, one cloak-room clerk, and one page amongst the
                                    employees of the House above the number required by law;
                                    recommending their dismissal, with the statement that it would
                                    save about $1,200.
                                Mr. DAVIS. Mr. Speaker, is there not a Committee on
                                        Retrenchment and Reform to which this report might
                                    be referred?
                                
                                The SPEAKER. The House, as in Committee of the
                                        Whole, - sits here on retrenchments and reforms.
                                    [Laughter.]
                                The report was concurred in.
                                Mr. SHORTRIDGE submitted a concurrent resolution to authorize a
                                    clerk for the committee on the Judiciary, and
                                    a clerk for the committee on Ways and
                                    Means.
                                On motion of Mr. CRUMPACKER, it was laid on the table.
                                The House then adjourned till to-morrow morning nine o'clock.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    VOLUME FIFTEEN.
                    INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            SATURDAY, January 16, 1875.
                        
                        The Senate was not in session to-day.
                        Mr. SMITH'S Temperance Bill (introduced Junuar 7,) is as
                            follows:
                        A Bill [S. 2] for An Act to regulate and license the sale of spirituous,
                            vinous, malt or other intoxicating liquors, to repeal all former laws
                            contravening the provisions of this act and prescribing penalties for
                            the violation thereof.
                        SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
                            That no person shall sell or barter, directly or indirectly, any
                            intoxicating liquors in a less quantity than a quart at a time, within
                            this State without first procuring from the Clerk of the Circuit Court
                            of the county in which such license as hereinafter provided, nor shall
                            any person without having first procured such license or barter any
                            intoxication liquor to be drank or suffered to be drank in his house out
                            house, yard, garden or the appentenances thereto belonging.
                        SECTION 2. The word " intoxicating" liquors as used in this act shall
                            mean any spiritous, vinous or malt liquors or any intoxicating liquors
                            whatever which may be used as a beverage.
                        SECTION 3. Any male inhabitant over the age of twenty-one years, desiring
                            to obtain a license to sell intoxicating liquors, shall file with the
                            Clerk of the Circuit Court an application, slating the precise location
                            of the premises in which he desires to sell, and shall pay to the
                            Treasurer of the county, in which his application is filled, the sum of
                            two-hundred Dollars as a fee for license for one year, to be applied and
                            expended for Common School purposes, in the same manner in which
                            revenues of the Common School fund are or may be expended.
                        SECTION 4. Such applicant, before license shall issue to him shall file
                            with the Clerk, a bond payable to the State of Indiana, with, at least,
                            three free-hold sureties, residents within said county, which bond shall
                            be approved by the. Clerk and the Auditor of the county, in the sum of
                            one thousand Dollars, Conditional, that he will keep
                            an orderly and peaceable house, and that he will pay all fines and costs
                            that may be assessed against him for any violation of the provisions of
                            this act, which bond shall be recorded in the Recorder's office of his
                            county, and such applicant shall pay over to said officers, all fees and
                            charges for any services by them performed.
                        SECTION 5. Upon the presentation of the Treasurer's receipt for the fees,
                            as aforesaid, and the execution of the bond, and the full payment of all
                            costs and charges due to the several County officers for their services,
                            the Clerk of the Circuit Court shall issue a license to the applicant
                            for the sale of intoxicating liquors permitting the same to be drank on
                            the premises stated in his application, which license shall specify the
                            name of the applicant, the price of sale, and the period of time for
                            which such license is granted, and a true copy of the same shall be
                            entered of record in the order-book of the Circuit court by said
                            Clerk.
                        SECTION 6. No license as herein provided shall be granted for a greater
                            or less time than one year.
                        SECTION 7. A license granted under the provisions of this act shall not
                            authorize the person so licensed to sell or barter any intoxicating
                            liquors on Sunday, nor to any person under the age of twenty-one years,
                            nor to a person, or persons in the state of intoxication, nor to any
                            person who is a habitual drunkard, nor upon the day of any state,
                            county, township or municipal election in the township or city where the
                            same may be holden.
                        
                        SECTION 8. Every person who shall directly or indirectly sell, barter, or
                            give away any intoxicating liquors to any person who is in the habit of
                            being intoxicated, after notice shall have been given him by any person,
                            of being intoxicated, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and on
                            conviction thereof shall be fined not less than ten no more than fifty
                            dollars.
                        SECTION 9. Any person not being license according to the provisions of
                            this act who shall sell, or barter directly or indirectly, any
                            intoxicating liquors in a less quantity than a quart at a time, or who
                            shall sell or barter any intoxicating liquors to be drank or suffered to
                            be drank in his house, out-house yard, garden, or the appurtenances
                            thereunto belonging, shall be fined in any sum not less than ten nor
                            more than one hundred dollars.
                        SECTION 10. If any person shall sell, barter or give away any
                            intoxicating liquors to any person under the age of twenty-one years, or
                            to any person in a state of, intoxication, the person so offending,
                            shall be fined in the sum of not less than ten, nor more than
                            one-hundred dollars.
                        SECTION 11. Any person who shall adulterate any intoxicating liquors,
                            which are intended for sale, by the adulture of any adulterous substance
                            therewith or any person who shall offer for sale or sell any
                            intoxicating liquors, which shall have been so adulterated as aforesaid,
                            on conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not less than fifty nor
                            more than five hundred dollars.
                        SECTION 12. Every place, house, room, arbor or shed wherein intoxicating
                            liquors are sold, bartered or given away, or suffered to be drank, if
                            kept in a disorderly manner, shall be deemed a common nuisance, and the
                            keeper thereof, upon conviction, shall be fined in any sum not less than
                            fifty, nor more than two hundred dollars.
                        SECTION 13. For the payments of all fines and costs adjudged upon any
                            person or persons in consequence of the violation of this act, the real
                            estate and personal property of such person or persons and his or their
                            sure ties, shall be liable, and such fines and costs shall be a lein
                            upon such real estate until paid.
                        SECTION 14. All courts of record within their respective jurisdiction in
                            this State shall have concurrent jurisdiction to hear and determine all
                            complaints for the violation of this act, Provided, that when in the
                            opinion of Justices of the Peace in suits before them, a fine of
                            twenty-five dollars shall be inadequate punishment for such violations,
                            then the Justice in such cases shall recognize the party and the
                            witnesses in sufficient bonds and security, to appear at the next term
                            of any court of competent jurisdiction to answer said charge.
                        SECTION 15. All laws and parts of laws conflicting with the provisions of
                            this act, and an act entitled, "An act to regulate the sales of
                            intoxicating liquors; to provide against the evils resulting from any
                            sale thereof; to furnish remedies for damages suffered by any person in
                            consequence of such sale, prescribing penalties, to repeal all laws
                            contravening the provisions of this act and declaring an emergency,"
                            approved Feb. 27, 1873, be and the same are hereby repealed; but nothing
                            in this act shall be so constructed as to prohibit the common counsel of
                            cities and the boards of Trustees of incorporated towns, from demanding
                            and enforcing a fee upon license from keepers of coffee houses on other
                            places where intoxicating liquors are sold and drank within the reach of
                            their respective jurisdictions.
                    
                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            SATURDAY, January 16, 1875.
                        
                        The SPEAKER called the House to order at 9 o'clock, a m., and directed
                            the Clerk to read the Journal of yesterday, and the same was read and
                            authenticated.
                        Messrs Burson, Charters and Henderson obtained leave of absence till
                            Monday.
                        On motion of Mr. TRUSLER, the reference of his bill [H. R. 118] was
                            changed from the committee on the Judiciary to the
                                committee on Education.
                        Mr. COLLINS, from the committee on Insurance returned
                            the bill [H. R. 129] to amend the act of Feb. 15, '61, to incorporate
                            the Indiana Fire Insurance Co., recommending its passage. It was passed
                            the second reading and ordered to be engrossed.
                        On motion of Mr. KENNEDY of Montomery, it was ordered that when the house
                            adjourns to-day, it shall be till Monday 2 o'clock p. m.
                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The SPEAKER now called the roll ot counties and districts for bills
                                and resolutions.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS of Brown, introduced a bill [H. R. 149] for an act to
                                amend the th section of an act to provide for the protection of
                                Fish, defining the time in which he same may be trapped or taken,
                                and declaring an emergency. [To be unlawful to take fish between the
                                first of May and September - excepting the Ohio and St. Joseph
                                rivers and private fishing premises.]
                            Mr. JOHNSON of Carroll, submitted a resolution instructing the
                                    Committee on education to inquire into the
                                expediency of amending section eight of the Common School law of
                                March 1873, so as to make it duty of the Board of Education to se-
                                     lect and prescribe such
                                text books as shall be used in the Common Schools of Indiana, which
                                was rejected.
                            Mr. BENCE introduced a bill [H. R. 150] for an act establishing
                                county Courts, providing for the election and compensation of the
                                Judges thereof, abolishing the Boards of County Commissioners, and
                                providing for the transfer of business to the said County
                                Courts.
                            Mr. DAVIS presented the petition of the Treasurer and other county
                                officers of Floyd county, for repeal of the law authorizing the
                                Criminal Circuit Court for the counties of Clark and Floyd.
                            He also presented the letter of Dr. E. Newland, his competitor at the
                                late election for Representative of Floyd county, dated January 15,
                                1875, and addressed to the Hon. Thomas Bellows, Representative for
                                the county of Clark, fully sustaining Mr. Davis' statements on the
                                floor as to the general sentiment of the people of Clark and Floyd,
                                that that Criminal Circuit ought to be abolished.
                            The papers were referred to the committee on the
                                    Organization of Courts of Justice.
                            Mr. CLARK submitted the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That smoking is positively
                                            forbidden in this Hall during the session and recess
                                            time of this Legislature; and that the Doorkeeper see
                                            that this order is strictly complied with.
                                    
                                
                            
                            The SPEAKER. The Chair will say to the gentleman that that
                                is now - in the Rules: the only change is, that this forbids smoking
                                in the recess.
                            Mr. CLARK. We hear a good deal said here about the bad air and
                                ventilation of this Hall; and for those who never use tobacco - he
                                was of that number - the scent of tobacco throughout the Hall had a
                                deleterious effect, and it remains in the air some time after it is
                                given out. Therefore, since we are compelled to be here, I will take
                                it as very kind if the House will vote that smoking shall not be
                                indulged in this Hall during the session.
                            The resolution was adopted.
                            Mr. RAMSEY introduced a bill [H. R. 151] for an act to amend section
                                one of the act entitled an act concerning interest on money, etc.,
                                approved March 1867. [Lawful interest 6 per cent - contracts for
                                interest above 8 per cent, usurious - forfeiture of excess.]
                            Also a bill [H. R. 152] for an act to amend sections 14 to 24 of the
                                act of March 1873 regulating the fees of officers and providing
                                penalties and duties of certain county and township officers.
                            Mr. RAGAN presented a temperance petition, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance.
                            Mr. WOODY introduced a Joint Resolution (H. R. No, 5] agreeing to and
                                adopting the amendments proposed to the Constitution of the State of
                                Indiana at the last session of the General Assembly. [In Article ii
                                section 2 by substitute - striking out the word "white;" and
                                striking out section 5, - To amend Article iv by striking out the
                                word "white," from sections four and five. - To amend Article vii
                                section 2 by substitute - increasing the number of Supreme Judges to
                                "not less than four, nor more than seven," etc. - To amend Article
                                xiii by striking it out and substituting one section: limiting the
                                indebtedness of political and municipal corporations "to five per
                                centum on the value of the taxable property within such
                                corporation," etc. - And to amend further, by adding the following
                                section to Article vii section 22: "The election for judicial
                                officers may be provided for by the General Assembly to take place
                                at such time when no other election is pending" - See Acts of the
                                Forty-eighth Regular session pp. 248, 249.
                            Mr. SMITH introduced a bill [H. R. 153] for an act to legalize
                                official acts for the town of Portland, Jay county, Indiana, by the
                                Board of Trustees and other officers of said town under the act
                                approved June 11, 1852.
                            Mr. KEIGHTLY introduced a bill [H. R 154] for an act to empower the
                                Auditor of State to correct errors heretofore made by officials in
                                the sale of the Sinking Fund lands, by making proper deeds, etc.
                            Mr. KENNEDY of Montgomery introduced a bill [H. R 155] for an act
                                concern- the granting of new trials, and providing that Jurors may
                                be examined under oath touching any alleged misconduct of
                                juries.
                            Mr. KENNEDY of Morgan introduced a bill [H R. 156] for an act
                                defining certain crimes, declaring the procurement of an abortion a
                                felony, prescribing penalties therefor, etc., and declaring an
                                emergency. [Penitentiary one to ten years]
                            Mr. REEDER introduced a bill [H. R. 157] for an act to provide for
                                the improvement of highways.
                            Mr. ANDERSON presented a temperance petition which was referred to
                                the Committee on Temperance.
                            Mr. TAYLOR of Tipton introduced a bill [H. R. 158] for an act to
                                amend sections 26 and 29 of the act to authorize and encourage the
                                construction of levees, dykes, drains and ditches and the
                                reclamaiton of wet and overflowed lands by incorporated companies,
                                etc.
                            
                            Mr. HAVENS introduced a bill [H. R. 159] for an act to repeal section
                                2 of the act to define certain misdemeanors, and prescribing
                                punishment therefor, approved December 2, 1865. [He said it was a
                                bill to repeal "the provoke act."]
                            Mr. HARRIS, of Wayne, introduced a bill [H. R. 160] for an act
                                requiring the County Auditors to publish statements in the
                                newspapers of all allowances made by the Boards of County
                                Commissioners, on the same terms of other legal publications.
                            Mr. MARTIN, of Wells, submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that
                                the Reporter of the Supreme Court be requested to report to this
                                House the whole number of copies of the decisions of the Supreme
                                Court sold by him since he has been Reporter, the amount of such
                                sales, and the cost of printing and binding the same.
                            Mr. WASHBURN presented the petition of 125 voters of Whitley county
                                for a reduction of the fees and salaries of public officers, which
                                was referred.
                            Mr. HELLER presented a claim, which was referred; also, a resolution
                                that the Principal Clerk be directed to comply with the 13th section
                                of the act of December 23, 1872, prescribing the duties of officers
                                of the General Assembly; which was adopted.
                            Mr. FORKNER introduced a bill [H. R. 161] for an act authorizing the
                                contracts of married women, and denning their liabilities on their
                                contracts, etc.
                            Which bills were severally passed to the second reading.
                        
                        
                            ORDERS FOR REFERENCE OF BUSINESS ON
                                THESPEAKER'S TABLE.
                            Mr. Leeper's Wolf and Fox bill [H. R. 138] was taken up on the second
                                reading and referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.
                            Mr. Haven's Married Woman bill [H. R. 139] was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Darnall's Kokomo Legalization bill [H. R. 140] was referred to
                                the Committee on Cities and Towns.
                            Mr. Havens' Law of Libel bill [H. R. 141] was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. El wards' Railroad Aid Repeal bill [H. R. 142] was referred to
                                the Committee on Railroads.
                            Mr. Gilbert's Normal School Act Amendment Appropriation bill [H. R.
                                143] was referred to the Committee on Education -
                                Mr. Havens submitting, ineffectually, a motion to refer it to the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means.
                            Mr. Heller's Physicians and Surgeons bill [H. R. 144] was referred to
                                the Committee on Scientific and Benevolent
                                    Institutions.
                            Mr. Adams of Wells' Adams County Reimbursement bill [H. R. 145] was
                                referred to the Committee on Corporations.
                            Mr. Bence's Town Corporation Act Amendment bill [H. R. 146] was
                                referred to the Committee on Cities and
                                Towns.
                            Mr. Ratliff's Divorce Witness bill[H. R. 147] was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. Twibill's Divorce Law Amendment bill [H. R. 148] was referred to
                                the Committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. GOSSMAN submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on Swamp Lands be instructed to
                                examine the records as to the amount of [swamp land] money
                                heretofore appropriated to each county, and the amount expended by
                                each county, and the amount unexpended by each county, and report as
                                early as possible.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the State
                                    Labrarian (Mrs. Estella A. Oren) regarding the
                                employment of a fireman for the Representatives Hall, etc., which
                                was referred to the Committee on Employees.
                            On motion of Mr. HELLER, the House then adjourned till Monday, 2
                                o'clock p. m. 
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    VOLUME FIFTEEN.
                    INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            MONDAY, January 18, 1875.
                        
                        The Senate met pursuant to adjournment - Lieutenant Governor SEXTON in
                            the chair.
                        The Secretary's minutes of Friday's proceedings were read, corrected and
                            approved.
                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR laid before the Senate a communication from the
                            Auditor of State in answer to a resolution of the Senate, showing that
                            for the years 1865 to 1873 inclusive, there has been collected a dog tax
                            amounting to $1,371,283.
                        He also laid before the Senate a communication from the State Librarian
                            [Mrs. ESTELLA A. OREN] asking authority either to dismiss or retain the
                            fireman now employed in the Senate lobbies.
                        It was referred to the Committee on Public
                            Buildings.
                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. HACKLEMAN presented a petition signed by the leading farmers of
                                Wabash county (he said) praying for a law restraining stock from
                                running at large.
                            It was referred to the Committee on
                                Agriculture.
                            Mr. UNDERWOOD presented several petitions for the suppression of the
                                liquor traffic, which were read and referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance.
                            Mr. THOMPSON presented petitions from the counties of St. Joseph,
                                Wayne, Wabash, Howard, Noble and Switzerland, all to the following
                                effect:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            To the Honorable Legislature of the
                                                State of Indiana;
                                        
                                        We, the undersigned, residents of the city of South Bend,
                                            State of Indiana, and holders of Life Insurance
                                            policies, would most respectfully petition your
                                            honorable body to repeal so much of Section 8 of Chapter
                                            93 of volume, of 1873, of the compiled laws of this
                                            State, as relates to the taxation of Life Insurance
                                            premiums collected by Life Insurance companies not
                                            organized in this State. This tax is not paid by some
                                            "foreign corporations," as many may suppose but by us as
                                            individual members of these corporations. The companies
                                            have decided to deduct from all dividends payable on and
                                            after January 1st, 1875, a percentage on the premiums
                                            equivalent to the percentage assessed by the State in
                                            which the policy holder doing business in this State are
                                            mutual - being simply an aggregation of members from
                                            different parts of the Union it is not difficult to
                                            perceive from whose pockets all this expense must be
                                            paid, no matter whether it is incurred by taxation or
                                            otherwise, the amount of taxes collected by this State
                                            upon Life Insurance premiums must be paid by the residents of this State who hold Life
                                            Insurance policies; or, in other words, the actual
                                            result of the law above referred to is to compel those who seek to so guard against the
                                            misfortunes and uncertainties of business life, that in
                                            the event of their early death their dependents shall
                                            not be left penniless, or become municipal or State
                                            burdens, - to pay a penalty in the
                                            shape of a "specific tax" of three per cent upon all
                                            monies so invested. We protect against an enactment so
                                            impolitic and unjust, and therefore ask the repeal of so
                                            much of the section herein before referred to as imposes
                                            a tax upon the premium receipts of Life Insurance
                                            companies.
                                        
                                            All of which is respectfully submitted.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            They were referred to the Committee on
                                Insurance.
                            
                            Mr. BEARDSLEY presented a petition from citizens of Elkhart county in
                                favor of the passage of his garnishee bill [S. 11,] described on
                                page 6 of these Reports) which was referred to the
                                    committee on the Judiciary.
                            Mr. TOBIN presented a memorial from citizens of Perry county, praying
                                for a reduction in fees paid to officers or providing for the sale
                                of offices to the lowest responsible bidder, for an appraisement and
                                assessment every five years; county and township officers to
                                contract no debts except by the consent of two-thirds of the voters;
                                the sale of all public labor to the lowest bidder; the dog t ax to
                                be applied as the school tax; compelling stock to be kept in
                                enclosures; a repeal of all railroad and other aid laws; for a
                                national banking system; lawful interest to be six per cent, except
                                the school fund which should be seven per cent.
                            It was referred to the committee on Fees and
                                    Salaries.
                        
                        
                            CITY TAX - EXEMPTION.
                            Mr. HOUGH from the committee on corporations
                                returned Mr. Slater's bill, [S 28, described on page 23 of these
                                Reports,] with a recommendation that it do pass.
                            He said: The only change this bill proposes to make from the present
                                law, is that it exempts from town or city tax all over five acres of
                                ground lying within the corporate limits.
                            Mr. GOODING. It strikes me that we ought not to pass a law relieving
                                from city taxes the property of a man wealthy enough to own a farm
                                within the corporate limits; therefore, I am opposed to concurring
                                in the report of the committee.
                            Mr. BEARSS. Cities and towns in our part of the country take the
                                liberty of extending their corporations over all the farms joining,
                                and I am opposed to taxing farm lands for city purposes. And I am
                                opposed to these annexation ordinances, for I am of opinion that a
                                farmer has the right to live upon a farm without being obliged to
                                pay city taxes. I move to amend so that cities under ten thousand
                                shall not be assessed over fifty cents on the one hundred dollars
                                valuation, [instead of one dollar as fixed by the bill.]
                            Mr. BELL. I concur in the remarks marks made by the gentleman from
                                Vanderburg [Mr. Gooding.] We have seen the evils of such a law as
                                this in the city - [Ft. Wayne] where I reside. There are persons
                                there owning large bodies of land in the city, that they surround
                                with a high fence, who reap all the advantages of a city government,
                                who resist the opening of streets and alleys, and retard the
                                progress of the city all that is possible, and yet do enough farming
                                on them to allow them to be called farming lands in order to escape
                                city taxation. I shall oppose the bill and hope it will not
                                pass.
                            Mr. GIVAN. This bill might work great hardships if it should become a
                                law. I do not see why any distinction should be made between real
                                estate and personal property. The true principle of taxation is that
                                it should work equally upon every person, and upon all kinds and
                                species of property. I can see no reason for the passage of this
                                bill.
                            Mr. SARNIGHAUSEN. The law exempting from municipal taxation five
                                acres of land within the corporation limits was repealed last
                                session. It gave satisfaction in the town where I live, and I see no
                                reason why such an act should be reestablished.
                            Mr. SLATER. I introduced this bill in justice to the people who live
                                in the city where I reside. The city authorities have seen proper to
                                extend the corporation limits over farms for miles around without
                                the volition of the farmers residing thereon, since which they find
                                it impossible to make enough off their farms to pay their taxes. I
                                have no doubt but other cities are in the same condition as the city
                                of Franklin, and I think it is not just to force these people inside
                                the corporation limits against their protest and then to tax them so
                                largely that they cannot make the tax off the land.
                            Mr. LARUE. I am in favor of the general provisions of the bill, but
                                there is one thing that ought to be guarded. The bill ought to be
                                recommitted with instructions to amend so that lands lying within
                                the corporation limits, in larger bodies than five acres, shall not
                                be taxed at a higher rate for city purposes than are other lands in
                                the township where the cities are situated.
                            Mr. BEARSS. The city of Ft. Wayne has contracted debts so large that
                                perhaps she won't be able to pay them during the life time of any
                                gentleman on this floor, and as fast as she becomes involved in a
                                new debt, she reaches out and takes in another farm, and it is
                                simply robbery, gentleman of the Senate, [laughter] nothing more nor
                                nothing less. The only question is whether a farmer who settled in
                                this country at an early day, is to be permitted, quietly to live on
                                his own farm, without being forced to connect himself with a city so
                                corrupt, that a decent man can hardly live in it. [Laughter.]
                            Mr. BELL. I shall enter into no defence of the city of Fort Wayne
                                here. She needs none. I do not know how many farms are owned in the
                                heart of cities in the Senator's
                                district; there are but few in our city - only one or two. We are
                                able to take care of our debt in Ft. Wayne. We are advancing as fast
                                as any city in the State, unless we except Indianapolis; of course,
                                we can't expect to keep up with the city of concentric circles.
                            Mr. HOUGH. I think the amendment proposed by the Senator from Miami,
                                (Mr. Bearss,) is not germane to the bill. As to the other amendment,
                                it seems to me the bill itself embraces what is sought to be
                                effected by the amendment. As far as I know, none of the members of
                                the committee on Corporations present when this
                                bill was considered, live in cities, and, of course, they had no
                                personal interest in the matter. I think the principle involved in
                                this bill is fair, and if carried out in good faith, would conduce
                                to the benefit of all parties concerned. I want to do simply what is
                                right - nothing more and nothing less. I have no serious objection
                                to the re-commitment of the bill.
                            [A message from the House of Representatives here announced the
                                passage by that body of a joint resolution [H. R. 5] for memorial
                                and condolence in regard to the death of the Hon. Milton B. Hopkins,
                                late Superintendent of Public Instruction.]
                            Mr. THOMPSON. Where land is not worth more than $100 an acre before a
                                city is built, and is worth three or four thousand dollars an acre
                                now, I do not see why the owner should not be willing to bear some
                                of the burdens of the source which made it so valuable. When I came
                                to this city lands could be be bought for three or four
                                dollars an acre that now thousands of dollars would not buy. It is
                                wrong for a city to make streets and walks around farms and not
                                compel the owners to pay corporation tax upon them.
                            Mr. SARNIGHAUSEN. I move to indefinitely postpone the bill, report
                                and pending amendments.
                            Mr. SLEETH. I cannot concur in the report of the committee. It seems
                                to me there is liable to be hardship in either extreme of this
                                question. It is not right for a city council or the county
                                commissioners to include farms within the limits of a city, and tax
                                them for city purposes. And when a man's land is advancing every
                                year from two to three hundred per cent., while all the appliances
                                of a city are surrounding him, it is not right that he should
                                receive such benefits from a city without bearing some of its
                                burdens. We dare not legislate upon sentimental affections for the
                                old homestead. The owners ought to contribute their equal portion of
                                taxes with other persons.
                            Mr. GOODING. It seems to me we are going to a great deal of
                                unnecessary labor. What is generally complained of is the
                                extraordinary power conferred on county commissioners to annex
                                contiguous territory, and if gentlemen want to get rid of that evil,
                                I would suggest that they prepare an amendment to the law putting a
                                restriction upon them to prevent their abusing that power.
                            Mr. JOHNSTON of Parke. While I cannot vote for indefinite
                                postponement, I cannot vote for the bill in its present shape; I
                                have no experience in city life but my experience is that men who
                                own large bodies of land inside of corporations are the most
                                unpleasant men in the world to get along with, for they stand in the
                                way of all improvements. As an attorney I tried for three years to
                                open streets through some land in our town, and as bad as I hated to
                                I had to come to the legislature to get an act passed enabling me to
                                do so; because the owners refused to open streets, or to sell the
                                land for a reasonable amount. Real estate should be taxed at its
                                fair cash value, and when it becomes too valuable to farm, let the
                                owners dispose of it.
                            The yeas and nays were ordered on the motion to indefinitely
                                postpone, and being taken, resulted, yeas 19, nays 23, as
                                follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Those voting in the affirmative are Messrs.
                                        
                                            Beardsley.
                                            Bell.
                                            Bunyan.
                                            Dulbertson.
                                            Davidson.
                                            Gooding.
                                            Grove.
                                            Haworth.
                                            Henderson.
                                            Hendricks.
                                            Johnston, of Parke.
                                            Neff.
                                            Oliver.
                                            Peed.
                                            Saringhausen.
                                            Skinner.
                                            Sleeth.
                                            Stockslager.
                                            Thompson. - 19
                                        
                                        Those voting in the negative are Messrs.
                                        
                                            Baxter.
                                            Bearss.
                                            Boone.
                                            Cardwell.
                                            Chapman.
                                            Daggy.
                                            Friedley, of Scott.
                                            Givan.
                                            Hackleman.
                                            Harney.
                                            Hough,
                                            Howard.
                                            Humphreys.
                                            Johnson, of Floyd.
                                            LaRue.
                                            Major.
                                            Maxwell.
                                            Roe.
                                            Scott.
                                            Slater,
                                            Smith.
                                            Tobin.
                                            Underwood. - 23.
                                        
                                        Absent and not voting, Messrs.
                                        
                                            Bowman.
                                            Cree.
                                            Dykeman,
                                            Friedley, of Lawrence.
                                            Rhodes.
                                            Ringo.
                                            Wilson.
                                            Winterbotham.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            So the motion to indefinitely postpone was rejected.
                            Mr. BEARSS. I will accept the amendment offered by the Senator from
                                Tippecanoe, [Mr. LaRue.]
                            Mr. BELL. I offer the following additional instructions: Amend so as
                                to provide that all bodies of land containing five
                            
                            This day, [Monday, January, 18, 1875,] the House of Representatives
                                declared for the first time in eighteen years that it would make no
                                appropriation for the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS, therefore the
                                printing thereof was discontinued for the remainder of this
                                session.
                        
                    
                
            
        
        
        
            
                 A Constitutional Debt.
                For more than thirty (30) years WM. H. DRAPIER's services were DEMANDED by one or
                    both Houses of the General Assembly of Indiana, BEFORE the issuing of each of
                    twenty-four (24) volumes of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS; and in every
                        dem as instantaneously recorded on the journals of each
                    House his compensation is definitely stated. - This is a Constitutional debt and
                    should be so considered; - it is on a much higher plane than any claim. See Art.
                    I, Sec. 21, Constitution of Indiana.
                
                    About the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                    "No man's particular services shall be demanded without just Compensation
                        [Article I, section 21, Constitution of Indiana.
                    For thirty-five years W. H. Drapier has compiled the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
                        REPORTS comprising the Debates of the General Assembly of Indiana; he acting
                        as stenographer in the Senate and his father in the House of
                        Representatives.
                    The State paid for this work for twenty years - up to the date of his
                        father's death - since which, most of the time, two short-hand writers have
                        reported the House Debates; and as Mr. Drapier editorialized their work his
                        duties were so greatly increased that he has been unable to get these
                        Reports authorized for each session till too late to have a bill passed to
                        pay him for former services; and shrank from pushing his claim earlier in
                        each session for fear it would hazard the continuation of the work; and so
                        he has continued for some fifteen years to invest his money in this work
                        under the constitutional guarantee in Art. I, section 21, of the organic
                        law.
                    Twenty four volumes of his work have been authorized, ordered, accepted and
                        bound by the State - the binding of several of the later volumes being paid
                        for by special act of the Legislature. During these thirty-five years
                        service Mr. Drapier has rendered the State of Indiana by reason of the
                        "demand" of one or both Houses of the General Assembly, he has not sold a
                        single copy nor received pay from any other source than the State Treasury
                        for a single copy of paid BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS. Every one of the
                        thousands of copies printed have been ordered, authorized, accepted, bound
                        and distributed to officers and agents of the State by special direction of
                        the upper or lower or both Houses of the General Assembly - each member
                        being entitled to eleven copies.
                    For the first time in these these thirty five years the Senate at
                        a late session rejected these Reports; - the session previous they were
                        ordered but as the Journal snows the requisite number of votes were not
                        recorded till the day after the ballot the sessions since
                        have not been printed, though the Debates of were both taken down in
                        short-hand and are preserved - it being the intention of the Compiler, if
                        his life is spared, to use the monies he receives from the State first in
                        printing the Debates of the current session, and then in reprinting from the
                        twenty-four volumes published since 1857 all matters of public interest now,
                        and worthy of preservation in the Archives of the State, and publishing a
                        "Thirty-five Years View of the Indiana General Assembly" at his own
                        expense,from stereotyped plates, so that other and subsequent editions may
                        be printed as a prefix to the Debates of each succeeding General Assembly,
                        that the entire record of the sayings of the representative men of Indiana
                        for a life time past - they can be found no where else may be in the hands
                        of each Legislator hereafter.
                    The member of any Legislative body who votes against preserving a record of
                        the Debates therein, places himself in direct opposition to the judgement of
                        the ablest and most experienced Statesmen in every enlightened country on
                        earth; in direct opposition, to the long established custom and the
                        expressed will of the highest and most dignified Legislative bodies in all
                        Nations; and in direct opposite to the axiom that the honor and the glory of
                        a State is in her history.
                    The BREVIER REPORTS is by far the cheapest job of work of the kind ever done
                        for ANY State; - this statement should go unquestioned inasmuch as one else
                        in the past has even offered to do it.
                
            
            
            
                THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                VOLUME FIFTEEN.
                INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
                
                    
                        
                            
                                The undersigned proprietors of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
                                    REPORTS respectfully represent:
                            
                            That seventeen years ago they organized and executed a plan of
                                independent unpartizan legislative reporting (the first ever
                                attempted here having regard to fullness and completeness as to the
                                matter and the parliamentary forms,) upon which they have printed
                                their Reports at a cost to the State less by one half than any
                                similar job of the State's printing; That their work proved
                                acceptable to the General Assembly and received acts for
                                authorization and pay: That it has been maintained and has received
                                similar acts of endorsement every session since - and we
                                respectfully submit that under this usage of the General Assembly we
                                have a fair constructive permission and invitation to continue our
                                independent work of elaborating and offering the BREVIER
                                REPORTS.
                            The fifteenth Volume of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS of the
                                Proceedings and Debates of the Indiana Legislature, will embrace
                                reliable short hand sketches of the Journals, Proceedings and
                                Debates of both Houses of the Forty-ninth General Assembly of the
                                State of Indiana, convened at Indianapolis, in regular session the
                                7th day of January, 1875. It will contain all Motions, Messages,
                                Resolutions and Committee Reports as they shall be made and
                                submitted; it will describe or copy at length all Bills and
                                Propositions as they shall be presented and considered; and it will
                                afford liberal and verbatim sketches of the Debates, presenting
                                without partisan bias the position of every member on the floor,
                                with the yeas and nays in every question of moment on which they
                                shall be ordered and taken.
                            The BREVIER REPORTS will be, as it has been for years past, the only
                                source from which reliable reports of the Debates of the Legislature
                                can be obtained. This has been found to be the best and most
                                economical means of presenting to the people an intelligible
                                journal, not only of what is done, but of what is said, in the
                                General Assembly, together with a reliable account in proper
                                legislative forms, of the order of the doings and sayings of the
                                representatives of the people.
                            The undesigned submit, that these Reports are indispensable to the
                                history of Legislation in the State, of great value for information
                                to the people at large, especially to politicians, the press and
                                every public man; and that their value is increased by time.
                            We propose to pursue the publication of our BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
                                REPORTS. But there is now this difficulty about our work; we are
                                unable to contract with either of the companies publishing morning
                                papers in this city for the daily printing of our Reports in their
                                newspaper or in any other daily form. Therefore, since our Reports
                                cannot appear in the papers as heretofore, and to provide against
                                the restrictions of space in the newspapers by which the Reports are
                                liable to be marred and excluded, we propose to contract for
                                printing outside of the daily press, so as to insure a complete and
                                satisfactory record. These contracts involve an inevitable expense
                                of money on our part, which is barely justified by the State's
                                authorization of the purchase of the number of copies of the Reports
                                which have been accorded in the Specific Bill of every session since
                                1857. The price is less than one-third which is paid tor the work of
                                the Reporter of the Supreme Court.
                            The past, we think, teaches plainly enough, that unless the General
                                Assembly were to establish a special Bureau for Reporting and
                                Printing, involving new offices and additional Public expensiveness,
                                which should be avoided by all means consistent with reasonable
                                carefulness for he information and welfare of the supervising
                                peoples our standing proposition is the best and certainly it is by
                                very much the cheapest way to escape the evils of partial reporting
                                in the interest of rings and factions. We think also, that the
                                general acceptance of our Reports for the past seventeen years
                                justifies the expectation that the Legislature will not now forego
                                the advantages of these contributions to the history of its work
                            
                                Respectfully,
                                A. & W. H. DRAPIER.
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                PROSPECTUS.
                
                    
                        
                            THE BREVIER reporters in all the years of its publication have been
                                careful chiefly to make their work here a good record, and rest its
                                claims to the cherishment of the Legislature upon that alone. They
                                have gone before no Committee, lobbied none, received no approaches
                                for individual favor, nor shaped their work at any time with
                                sinister or partizan objects. It has rested solely and all the time
                                on its merits, its integrity and fairness; and for these it has all
                                the time received the favoring notice of the Legislature.
                            It is a fact also that the BREVIER REPORTS have done for the people
                                what the newspapers are unfit and unable to do in the matter of a
                                just and stern legislative record; and the work has been done
                                cheaper than the newspaper charges which have been paid out of the
                                treasury for their partial, personal, restricted and unreliable
                                matter called Legislative Proceedings.
                            The work cannot be done by jobbers for the money that has been paid
                                for it; and as to the standing contract price of the work, it
                                carries that on its every page: for "two-thirds of a cent a page per
                                copy" it is furnished to the proper accounting officers of the State
                                in printed sheets, procured in every item of its cost
                                    at our own expense
                            Considering the difficulties and oppositions incident to such a work;
                                the contingencies of failing health and failing purse, and failing
                                at length to make an acceptable offering of the work, there is
                                nothing in the offering of it on our part but hard work, and the
                                good name of unswerving workers, much very delicate personal
                                responsibility, and some pecuniary hazard ( - large for our means -
                                ) and, at last and at the best, but meagre pay. We have proceeded
                                strictly upon the presumption that the people's representatives know
                                what is due to the country and to themselves in this matter of a
                                record of their legislative action. And, if there is any
                                consideration against the continuance of the BREVIER, except that of
                                its cost, the same conceit is as much against the lobbies and open
                                doors for the sessions of the General Assembly: and it is at least a
                                hundred years too late for secret sessions.
                            In this submission of the BREVIER REPORTS we have not been mistaken
                                as to the common and growing public demand for just and intelligent
                                public records. We have tried to meet that demand, and to provoke
                                parties abler than we are to supply it as it ought to be supplied.
                                And we still suppose that the Representatives of the people know
                                what they want in this matter - know whether it is better to do
                                everything here at the Capitol by memory and word of mouth, than to
                                stand upon a fair and open record for history.
                            As thirteen consecutive sessions of General Assembly have authorized
                                the publication of the Brevier Reports it is regarded respectful and
                                a duty to continue a proffer of the service that has been acceptable
                                to every Legislature for so many years.
                            The Brevier Reports contain a record that is impartial - not a single
                                partial report can be found in any of the fifteen volumes
                                issued.
                            Three-fourths of a cent per page has been paid by the State
                                heretofore for compiling the decisions of the Supreme Court which
                                can be done as well as it ever has been by hundreds of citizens of
                                Indiana, while none in the State are so compeled to make a
                                Legislative Record as the protectors of the BREVIER REPORTS because
                                the entire lives of no other Indianians have been passed in such
                                like service As compensation should always be regulated by the skill
                                required, there can be no question but that the pay for service but
                                few are competent to perform should largely exceed the pay for labor
                                that many are able to do. Nearly one half of the last volume of the
                                BREVIER REPORTS, in each page, contains more than three times as
                                much matter there is in one page of the Supreme Court Reports, yet
                                the BREVIER REPORTS are furnished to the State for two thirds a cent
                                per page, while the Reporter of the Supreme Court has received three
                                quarters of a cent per page, besides the copy right.
                            The particulars of Legislative expenses for the Extra Session of
                                1872, itemized to the Specific Bill, approved Dec. 21, 1872,
                                justifies our statement "that the Legislature found the cost of the
                                newspaper subsidies for legislative reports in this city to exceed
                                that of the authentic BREVIER.
                            The cost of new papers for that session above that of the BREVIER was
                                $356 73.
                            The newspaper vanished, but the BREVIER is extant, with all its
                                contributions to history.
                            Other comparisons might be gathered from the specific appropriation
                                bills for the last seventeen years, which might cast even a more
                                favoring light on the fact: that in all fair, honest work the best
                                is always and every way the cheapest; and from the same sources
                                whence these conclusion's are drawn there might also be more light
                                thrown on the fact that reporting is a profession, and fair
                                reporting is a distinction not always attainable for the highest
                                public service by a metropolitan newspaper.
                            
                                A. & W. H. DRAPIER.
                                Indianapolis,
                                
                                    March 10, 1875.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
            
        
    
