
   ----CITATION----
        Brevier Legislative Reports, Volume XII (1871). Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/law/brevier/VAA8558-12

   ----FULL TEXT----
        
    
      
      
        
          BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS: EMBRACING SHORT-HAND SKETCHES OF THE JOURNALS AND
            DEBATES OF THE General Assembly of the State of Indiana, REGULAR SESSION OF
            1871.
        
        By A. E. & W. H. DRAPIER, Reporters.
        
          
            
              
                VOL. XII.
              
            
          
        
        
          INDIANAPOLIS:
          W. H. DRAPIER, PRINTER, TILFORD'S BLOCK.
          1871.
        
      

      

      


      
        REPORTER'S NOTE.
        The closing of these volumes of Reports of the Proceedings and Debates of the
          Forty-Seventh General Assembly of the State of Indiana, combining the facile newspaper
          sketch with the most authentic record of the action had upon every important measure of
          the session, presents occasion for stating, that, it is part of their design to show the
          practicability of reforming the fashion of journalizing employed in most of the
          Legislatures of the Union; to suggest that the Journal Clerk of each House of the General
          Assembly shall be a Reporter, or shall be required to employ such reporting force as may
          enable him to sketch every proposition in its order and in due form, with the debate and
          action thereon, and that he be required to contract for the printing of his journal in
          some newspaper printed in the town of Indianapolis the day after the debate thereof,
          conditioned that it shall not exceed a given reasonable amount of matter, the volume of
          the Journals of the two Houses to be but one book, made up from the columns of the
          newspaper. And then let it be ordered simply, that a manuscript copy of the said Journal
          be filed with the Secretary of State. Thus a saving of thousands of dollars--the cost of
          printing and binding these clumsy Journals--would be induced, without adding anything to
          the expense of clerkships; a readable and authentic journal of our legislation would be
          secured to the Public Archives and the newspapers throughout the country, instead of the
          awkard, unprofessional, unreliable matter which usually passes for that; and the volume
          would then be in the binders hands complete and ready for distribution the day after the
          final adjournment of each and every session.
      

      
      
      

      
        
      

      
      
        KEY TO THE DIAGRAM OF THE INDIANA SENATE CHAMBER.
        President--WILL CUMBACK, Lieutenant Governor. Principal Secretary--WM. R. HARRISON, of Morgan county. Assistant
            Secretary--JAMES W. COLE, of Tippecanoe
          county. Doorkeeper--JAMES W. COOKERLY, of Monroe county. S--Sofa and chairs. Reporter for the Brevier Legislative Reports--W. H. DRAPIER,
          Indianapolis.
        
          
            Desk.
            The Member occupying it.
          
          
            1.
            Robert Miller, Peru, Miami county.
          
          
            2.
            John Collett, Newport, Vermillion county.
          
          
            3.
            Ad. Armstrong, Delphi, Carroll county.
          
          
            4.
            T. M. Hamilton, Frankfort.
          
          
            5.
            M. T. Carnahan, Stewartsville.
          
          
            6.
            Ochmig Bird, Fort Wayne.
          
          
            7.
            A. S. Case, Lagrange.
          
          
            8.
            Hugh Daugherty, Bluffton.
          
          
            9.
            J. B. Bobo, Decatur.
          
          
            10.
            Robert Dwiggins, Renssalear.
          
          
            11.
            Lucius Hubbard, South Bend.
          
          
            12.
            R. C. Wadge, Hobart.
          
          
            13.
            John W. Burson, Muncie.
          
          
            14.
            W. J. Robinson, Adams.
          
          
            15.
            John V. Hadley, Danville.
          
          
            16.
            E. W. Fosdick, Butler.
          
          
            17.
            Harvey D. Scott, Terre Haute.
          
          
            18.
            J. R. Beardsley, Elkhart.
          
          
            19.
            James Elliott, Connersville.
          
          
            20.
            John Caven, Indianapolis.
          
          
            21.
            A. Andrews, North Vernon.
          
          
            22.
            John Green, Tipton.
          
          
            23.
            E. B. Martindale, Indianapolis.
          
          
            24.
            Isaac P. Gray, Union city.
          
          
            5.
            A. Y. Hooper, Columbia city.
          
          
            26.
            James D. Williams, Wheatland.
          
          
            27.
            Asbury Steele, Marion.
          
          
            28.
            L. W. Hess, Cadiz.
          
          
            29.
            O. Beeson, Richmond.
          
          
            30.
            Samuel F. Wood, Covington.
          
          
            31.
            Henry Taylor, Lafayette.
          
          
            32.
            James Bradley, Laporte.
          
          
            33.
            Charles B. Lasselle, Logansport.
          
          
            34.
            John Stroud, Milltown.
          
          
            35.
            James Hughes, Bloomingtown.
          
          
            36.
            Daniel Morgan, Evansville.
          
          
            37.
            B. S. Fuller, Booneville.
          
          
            38.
            Jason B. Brown, Brownston.
          
          
            39.
            George W. Denbo, Corydon.
          
          
            40.
            M. Rosebrugh, Varsailles.
          
          
            41.
            O. J. Glessner, Shelbyville.
          
          
            42.
            Eb. Henderson, Martinsville.
          
          
            43.
            Leroy Cave, Huntingsburgh.
          
          
            44.
            Wiley E. Dittemore, Spencer.
          
          
            45.
            Archibald Johnston, Darlington.
          
          
            46.
            Joshua Alsop, Carlisle.
          
          
            47.
            John Beggs, Laurel.
          
          
            48.
            Hiram Francisco, Wirt.
          
          
            49.
            James Keigwin, Jeffersonville.
          
          
            50.
            Richard Gregg, Aurora.
          
        
      

      
      
      

      
        KEY TO THE DIAGRAM OF THE HALL OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
        Speaker--Hon. WM. MACK, of Vigo
          county. B
          Principal Clerk--SAMUEL HOLMES, of
          Jackson county. C
          Assistant Clerk--FRED. S. WILLIAMS, of Tippecanoe county. E
          Doorkeeper--F. M. SCHELL, of Clarke county. F
          Reporter Brevier Legislative Reports--A. E. DRAPIER,
          St. Joseph county.
        
          
            Desk.
            The Member occupying it.
          
          
            1.
            Wolfgang Hynes, Stewartsville.
          
          
            2.
            W. M. Gordon, Amsterdam.
          
          
            3.
            Israel Goble, Andersonville.
          
          
            4.
            H. B. Martin, Cloverdale.
          
          
            5.
            O. H. P. Abbett, Columbus.
          
          
            6.
            K. D. Hawley. Elizabethtown.
          
          
            7.
            Robert P. Davidson, Lafayette.
          
          
            8.
            J. A. Minich, Worthington.
          
          
            9.
            A. P. McFarland, Camden.
          
          
            10.
            J. D. Walker, Harmony.
          
          
            11.
            William P. Rhodes, Williamsport.
          
          
            12.
            William Taughinbaugh, Hartford city.
          
          
            13.
            Wm. Mack, [Speaker,] Terre Haute.
          
          
            14.
            Israel B. Washburn.
          
          
            15.
            W. S. Hartley, Osgood.
          
          
            16.
            L. D. Britton Corunna.
          
          
            17.
            D. W. Cunningham, Wallace.
          
          
            18.
            B. F. Williams, Fair Haven.
          
          
            19.
            James H. Ruddell, Indianapolis.
          
          
            20.
            William Hielman, Evansville.
          
          
            21.
            Robert P. Hooker, McCutchenville.
          
          
            22.
            Joseph Henderson, South Bend.
          
          
            23.
            A. E. Gordon, Lebanon.
          
          
            24.
            T. M. Kirkpatrick, Kokomo.
          
          
            25.
            S. C. Sabin, Orland.
          
          
            26.
            Edward Calkins, Rochester.
          
          
            27.
            Hiram S. Biggs, Warsaw.
          
          
            28.
            Robert Logan, Petersburg.
          
          
            29.
            George A. Netherton, Knox.
          
          
            30.
            James Gentry, Rockport.
          
          
            31.
            George McDowell, Bluffton.
          
          
            32.
            J. W. Deputy, Deputy.
          
          
            33.
            Martin Wood, Crown Point.
          
          
            34.
            William Shoenemann, Michigan city.
          
          
            35.
            J. W. Wymer, Burnett's Creek.
          
          
            36.
            J. D. Cox, Peru.
          
          
            37.
            John W. Copner, Alamo.
          
          
            38.
            Robert S. Taylor, Fort Wayne.
          
          
            39.
            Oliver M. Wilson, Indianapolis.
          
          
            40.
            Fielding Beeler, Indianapolis.
          
          
            41.
            W. W. Butterworth, Mishawaka.
          
          
            42.
            N.D. Miles, Sullivan.
          
          
            43.
            R. C. Stevens, Dover Hill.
          
          
            44.
            R. R. Stephenson, Noblesville.
          
          
            45.
            Ed. King, Indianapolis.
          
          
            46.
            Allen Furnas, Danville.
          
          
            47.
            W. H. Calkins, Valparaiso.
          
          
            48.
            Caleb B. Tarleton, Franklin.
          
          
            49.
            Benjamin L. Martin, Richmond.
          
          
            50.
            William S. Ballenger, Cambridge city.
          
          
            51.
            John R. Millikan, Ashland.
          
          
            52.
            Robert T. St. John, Marion.
          
          
            53.
            T. S. Lines, Springport.
          
          
            54.
            Noah J. Major, Martinsville.
          
          
            55.
            Henry C. Bruner, Six Mile.
          
          
            56.
            D. P. Monroe, Cloverdale.
          
          
            57.
            P. L. D. Mitchell, Bloomington.
          
          
            58.
            Robert P Haynes, Washington.
          
          
            59.
            W. J. McGowan, Oakland city.
          
          
            60.
            W. Tebbs, Lawrenceburgh.
          
          
            61.
            W. R. Guthrie, Gosport.
          
          
            62.
            G. D. Robertson, Booneville.
          
          
            63.
            D. Montgomery, Montgomery.
          
          
            64.
            Luke B. Coggswell, Paoli.
          
          
            65.
            H. S. Cauthorn, Vincennes.
          
          
            66.
            J. H. Rice, New Albany.
          
          
            67.
            Willis G. Neff, Greencastle.
          
          
            68.
            Asahel Stone, Winchester.
          
          
            69.
            John L. Knight, Wabash.
          
          
            70.
            James J. Curtis, Waldron.
          
          
            71.
            Isiah Donham, Cookerly.
          
          
            72.
            Daniel Sayers, Wabash.
          
          
            73.
            John E. Woodward, Bloomingdale.
          
          
            74.
            W. Rawles, Lima.
          
          
            75.
            James Hardin, Rome.
          
          
            76.
            J. W. Sansberry, Anderson.
          
          
            77.
            Jacob C. Schutt, Spencerville.
          
          
            78.
            Henry C. Stanley, Albion.
          
          
            79.
            William S. Devol, Lebanon.
          
          
            80.
            J. H. Oatley, Little York.
          
          
            81.
            W. Hendry, Roanoke.
          
          
            83.
            Benjamin Ray, Lafayette.
          
          
            84.
            William T. Strickland, Alert.
          
          
            85.
            Peter M. Zenor, Elizabeth.
          
          
            86.
            W. W. Conner, Carmel.
          
          
            87.
            Frank D. Caldwell, Frankfort.
          
          
            88.
            Isiah B. McDonald Columbia city.
          
          
            89.
            M. M. Gallentine, Bourbon.
          
          
            90.
            Henry S. Barnaby, Jeffersonville.
          
          
            91.
            John D. Simpson, Madison.
          
          
            92.
            W. W. Browning, Nashville.
          
          
            93.
            G. W. Friedley, Bedford.
          
          
            94.
            A. M. Kennedy, Rushville.
          
          
            95.
            Benjamin F. Hill, Carthage.
          
          
            96.
            James P. Snodgrass, Yorktown.
          
          
            97.
            Henry A. White, Clinton.
          
          
            98.
            Noble Warrum, Cleveland.
          
          
            99.
            W. G. Holland, Bennington.
          
          
            100.
            Elam B. Myers, Bristol.
          
          
            101.
            Joseph H. Defrees, Goshen.
          
        
      

      
      
        
      
      
      
      
        Names, Districts and Post Office Address of Senators of the
          Forty-Seventh General Assembly.
        
          Alsop, Joshua, Sullivan and Clay counties. Address, Carlisle, Sullivan
            county,
          Andrews, Alanson, Jennings and Scott counties. Address, North Vernon.
          Armstrong, Ad., Carroll and Howard counties. Address, Delphi.
          Beardsley, James R., Elkhart county. Address, Elkhart.
          Beeson, Othniel, Wayne county. Address, Richmond.
          Beggs, John, Franklin county. Address, Laurel.
          Bird, Ochmig, Allen county. Address Fort Wayne.
          Bobo, James R., Adams and Allen counties. Address, Decatur.
          Bradley, James, Laporte and Starke counties. Address, Laporte.
          Brown, Jason B., Brown and Jackson counties. Address, Brownstown.
          Burson, John W. Delaware and Madison counties. Address, Muncie.
          Carnahan, M. T., Gibson county. Address, Stewartsville.
          Case, A. S., Lagrange and Noble counties. Adddress, Lagrange.
          Cave, Leroy, Dubois, Martin and Pike counties. Address, Huntingsburgh.
          Caven, John, Marion county. Address Indianapolis.
          Collett, John, Vermillion and Parke counties. Address, Newport.
          Denbo, George W., Harrison and Washington counties. Address, Corydon.
          Dittemore, W. E., Owen and Greene counties. Address, Spencer.
          Daugherty, Hugh, Huntington and Wells counties. Address, Bluffton.
          Dwiggins, Robert, Jasper, White, Pulaski. Benton and Newton counties. Address,
            Rensselaer, Jasper county.
          Elliott, James, Fayette and Union counties. Address, Connersville.
          Fosdick, Ed. W., DeKalb and Steuben counties. Address, Butler.
          Francisco, Hiram, Jefferson county. Address Wirt.
          Fuller, B. S., Warrick and Spencer counties Address, Booneville.
          Glessner, Oliver J., Shelby and Bartholomew counties. Address, Shelbyville.
          Gray, Isaac P., Randolph county. Address, Union city.
          Green, John, Hamilton and Tipton counties. Address, Tipton.
          Gregg, Richard, Dearborn and Ohio counties. Address, Aurora.
          Hadley, John V., Hendricks and Putnam, counties. Address, Danville.
          Hamilton, Thomas M., Boone and Clinton counties. Address, Frankfort.
          Henderson, E. B., Johnson and Morgan counties. Address, Martinsville.
          Hess, L. W., Hancock and Henry counties. Address, Cadiz, Henry county.
          Hooper, A. Y., Whitley and Kosciusko counties. Address, Columbia city.
          Hubbard, Lucius, St. Joseph and Marshall counties. Address, South Bend, St. Joseph
            county.
          Hughes, James, Lawrence and Monroe counties. Address, Bloomington.
          Johnston Arch., Montgomery county. Address, Darlington.
          Keigwin, James, Clark and Floyd counties. Jeffersonville.
          Lasselle, Charles B., Cass and Fulton counties. Address, Logansport.
          Martindale, E. B., Marion county. Address, Indianapolis.
          Miller, Robert, Miami and Wabash counties. Address, Peru.
          Morgan, Dr. Daniel, Vanderburgh county. Address, Evansville.
          Robinson, W. J., Decatur and Rush counties. Address, Adams, Decatur county.
          Rosebrugh, M. K., Ripley and Switzerland counties. Andress, Versailles.
          Scott, Harvey D., Vigo county. Address, Terre Haute.
          Steele, Asbury, Jay, Blackford and Grant counties. Address, Marion.
          Stroud, John, Perry, Crawford and Orange counties. Address, Milltown.
          Taylor, Henry, Tippecanoe county. Address,Lafayette.
          Wadge, Richard C., Lake and Porter counties. Address, Hobart.
          Williams, James D., Knox and Daviess counties. Address, Wheatland.
          Wood, S. F., Fountain and Warren counties. Address, Covington.
        
      

      

      
        Names, District and Post Offices Address of Members of the House of
          Representatives, of the FORTY-SEVENTH GENERAL ASSEMBLY.
        
          Abbett, O. H. P., Bartholomew and Shelby counties. Address, Columbus, Bartholomew
            county.
          Ballenger, W. S., Wayne county. Address, Cambridge city.
          Beeler, Fielding, Marion county. Address, Indianapolis.
          Biggs, Hiram S., Kosciusko county. Address, Warsaw.
          Britton, Lewis D., DeKalb county. Address, Corunna.
          Browning, W. W., Brown county. Address, Nashville.
          Barnaby, Henry S., Clarke county. Address, Jeffersonville.
          Bruner, Henry C., Jennings county. Address, Six Mile.
          Butterworth, W. W., St. Joseph county. Address, Mishawaka.
          Caldwell, Frank D., Clinton county. Address, Frankfort.
          Calkins, Edward, Fulton and Kosciusko counties. Address, Rochester, Fulton
            county.
          Calkins, W. H., Porter county. Address, Valparaiso.
          Cauthorn, H. S., Knox county. Address, Vincennes.
          Coggswell, Luke B., Orange and Crawford county. Address, Paoli, Orange
            county.
          Conner, W. W., Hamilton county. Address, Carmel.
          Copner, John W., Montgomery. Address, Alamo.
          Cox, J. D., Miami county. Address, Peru.
          Cunningham, Daniel W., Fountain county. Address, Wallace.
          Curtis, James J., Shelby county. Address, Waldron.
          Davidson, Robert P., Tippecanoe county. Address, Lafayette.
          Defrees, Joseph H., Elkhart and Noble. Address, Goshen, Elkhart county.
          Deputy, James W., Jefferson county. Address, Deputy.
          Devol, Wm. J., Boone and Clinton counties, Address, Lebanon, Boone county.
          Donham, Isaiah, Vigo county. Address Cookerly.
          Friedley, G. W., Lawrence county. Address, Bedford.
          Furnas, Allen, Hendricks county. Address, Danville.
          Galentine, M. M., Marshall county. Address, Bourbon.
          Gentry, James, Spencer county. Address, Rockport.
          Goble, Israel, Franklin county. Address, Andersonville.
          Gordon, A. E., Boone county. Address, Lebanon.
          Gordon, W. M., Cass county. Address, Amsterdam.
          Guthrie, Walker R., Owen county. Address, Gosport.
          Hardin, James, Perry county. Address, Rome.
          Hartley, W. L., Ripley county. Address, Osgood.
          Hawley, D. K., Bartholomew county. Address, Elizabethtown.
          Haynes, Robert P., Daviess county. Address, Washington.
          Heilman, William, Vanderburg county. Address, Evansville.
          Henderson, Joseph, Marshall and St. Joseph counties. Address, South Bend, St. Joseph
            county.
          Hendry, William, Huntington county. Address, Roanoke.
          Hill, Benjamin F., Rush and Decatur counties. Address, Carthage.

          

          Holland, W. G., Switzerland and Ohio counties. Address, Bennington.
          Hooker, Robert E., Vanderburgh county. Address, McCutchenville.
          Hynes, Wolfgang, Posey county. Address, Stewartsville.
          Kennedy, A. M., Kush county. Address, Rushville.
          King, Edward, Marion county. Address, Indianapolis.
          Kirkpatrick, T. M., Howard county. Address, Kokomo.
          Knight, John L., Wabash and Miami counties. Address, Wabash.
          Lines, T. S., Henry and Madison counties. Address, Springport.
          Logan, Robert, Pike county. Address, Petersburg.
          Major, Noah J., Morgan county. Address, Martinsville.
          Martin, Benjamin L., Wayne county. Address, Richmond.
          Martin, H. B., Putnam and Hendricks counties. Address, Cloverdale, Putnam
            county.
          McDonald, Isaiah B., Whitley county. Address, Columbia City.
          McDowell, George, Wells and Adams county. Address, Bluffton, Wells county.
          McFarland, A. P., Carroll county. Address, Camden.
          McGowen, W. J., Gibson county. Address Oakland city.
          Minich, J. A., Greene county. Address, Worthington.
          Miles, N. D., Sullivan county. Address, Sullivan.
          Millikan, John B., Henry county. Address, Ashland.
          Mitchell, P. L. D., Monroe county. Address,Bloomington.
          Monroe, Daniel P., Jefferson and Ripley counties. Address, Saluda.
          Montgomery, D., Johnson county. Address, Morgantown.
          Myers, E. B., Elkhart county. Address, Bristol.
          Neff, Willis G., Putnam county. Address, Greencastle.
          Netherton, George A., Laporte and Starke counties. Address, Knox, Starke
            county.
          Oatley, J. H., Washington county. Address, Little York.
          Rawles, W., Lagrange county. Address, Lima.
          Ray, Benjamin, Tippecanoe county. Address,Lafayette.
          Rice, James H., Floyd county. Address, New Albany.
          Rhodes, William P., Warren county. Address, Williamsport.
          Robertson, G. D., Warrick county. Address, Booneville.
          Ruddell, James H., Marion county. Address, Indianapolis.
          Sabin, S., Steuben county. Address, Orland.
          Sansberry, J. W., Madison county. Address, Anderson.
          Sayers, Daniel, Wabash county. Address, Wabash.
          Shoenemann, William, Laporte county. Address, Michigan city.
          Simpson, John D., Jefferson, Scott and Clarke counties. Address, Madison, Jefferson
            county.
          Shutt, Jacob C., Allen county. Address, Spencerville.
          Snodgrass, James P., Delaware county. Address, Yorktown.
          Stanley, Henry C., Noble county. Address, Albany.
          Stephens, B. C., Martin and Dubois counties. Address, Dover Hill.
          Stephenson, Richard R., Hamilton county. Address, Noblesville.
          St.John, Robert T., Grant county. Address, Marion.
          Stone, Asahel, Randolph county. Address, Winchester.
          Strickland, William T., Decatur county. Address, Alert.
          Tarlton, C. B., Johnson and Morgan counties. Address, Franklin.
          Taughinbaugh, William, Blackford and Jay counties. Address, Hartford city, Jay
            county.
          Taylor, R. L., Allen county. Address, Fort Wayne.
          Tebbs, Warren, Dearborn county. Address, Lawrenceburg.
          Walker, J. D., Clay county. Address, Harmony.
          Washburn, I. B., Pulaski, Jasper, and Newton counties. Address, Star city.
          Warrum, Noble, Hancock county. Address, Cleveland.
          Williams, B. F., Union county. Address, Fairhaven.
          White, Henry A., Vermillion county. Address, Clinton.
          Wilson, O. M., Marion county. Address, Indianapolis.
          Wymer, John W., Benton and White counties. Address, Burnettscreek.
          Wood, Martin, Lake county. Address, Crown Point.
          Woodward, John E., Parke county. Address Bloomingdale.
          Zenor, Peter M., Harrison county. Address, Elizabeth.
          The Speaker, [Wm. Mack,] Vigo county. Address, Terre Haute.
        
      
    
    
      
      
      
        SKETCHES OF THE JOURNALS AND DEBATES OF THE REGULAR SESSION OF
          1871.
        Convened in the Capitol of the City of Indianapolis.
        INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            THURSDAY, January 5, 1871.
          
          This being the day prescribed by the Constitution of Indiana for the meeting of the
            Legislature of the State, Senators holding over and Senators elect assembled in the
            Senate Chamber, in the Capitol, at the city of Indianapolis, at ten o'clock A. M.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR, Hon. WILL CUMBACK, of Decatur county, took the chair promptly,
            and having commanded order, directed the calling of names of Senators holding over.
          The roll was called accordingly, and eighteen Senators holding over answered to their
            names, to-wit:
          
            SENATORS HOLDING OVER.
            Lawrence and Monroe--James Hughes.
            Scott and Jennings--Alanson Andrews.
            Fayette and Union--James Elliott.
            Rush and Decatur--Wm. J. Robinson.
            Vigo--Harvey D. Scott.
            Putnam and Henricks--John V. Hadley.
            Clinton and Boone--Thomas Hamilton.
            Marion--John Caven.
            Henry and Hancock--Luther W. Hess.
            Randolph--Isaac P. Gray.
            Hamilton and Tipton--John Green.
            Fountain and Warren--S. F. Wood.
            Laporte and Stark--James Bradley.
            Elkhart--James R. Beardsley.
            Kosciusko and Whitley--Adams Y. Hooper.
            DeKalb and Steuben--Ed. W. Fosdick.
            Varsderburg--Daniel Morgan.
            Washington and Harrison--George W. Denbo.
            Johnson and Morgan--Eb. Henderson.
            Montgomery--Archibald Johnson.
          
          
            SENATORS ELECT.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR then directed the calling of members elect, which being done the
              following Senators elect answered to their names and formed themselves in a
              semi-circle in front of the Lieut- Governor's chair to take the oath prescribed by the
              Constitution:
            Clay and Sullivan--Joshua Alsop.
            Cass and Fulton--Charles B. Lasselle.
            Allen-- John Sarninghausen.
            Posey and Gibson--M. T. Carnahan.
            Warrick and Spencer--Benoni S. Futler.
            Knox and Daviess--James D. Williams.
            Pike, Dubois and Martin--Leroy Cave.
            Perry. Crawford and Orange--John Straud.
            Brown and Jackson--Jason B. Brown.
            Floyd and Clark--James Keigwin.
            Miami and Wabash--Robert Miller.
            Jefferson--Hiram Francisco.
            Switzerland and Ripley--M. K. Roseborough.
            Ohio and Dearborn--Richard Gregg.
            Franklin--John Beggs.
            Shelby and Bartholomew--Oliver J. Glessner.
            Greene and Owen--Wiley E. Dittemore.
            Parke and Vermillion--John Collett.
            Marion--Elijah B. Martindale.
            Wayne--Othniel Beeson.
            Delaware and Madison--John W. Burson.
            Howard and Carroll--Ad Armstrong.
            Lake and Porter--Richard J. Wadge.
            St. Joseph and Marshall--Lucius Hubbard.
            Grant, Blackford and Jay--Asbury Steele.
            Huntington and Wells--Hugh Dougherty.
            Adams and Allen--James R. Bobo.
          
          
            CONTESTED ELECTION.
            Mr. HENDERSON, addressing the Chair, formally objected to John W. Burson (who had
              presented his credentials as a Senator from the counties of Delaware and Madison),
              being sworn in until the Senate was organized; for, he said, I have a memorial, signed
              by many leading men and prominent politicians in the counties of Delaware and Madison,
              of both political parties, protesting against his being sworn in as a Senator from
              that district.
            Mr. GREEN presumed the only question to be considered is the certificate of the
              member presenting himself in due form.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR said: That would be the view I should take of the subject. We
              have no right until an organization is effected to make any disposition of any
              question of that sort.
            Mr. HENDERSON appealed from the decision of the Chair.
            Mr. CAVIN contended that this question cannot be tried now. The motion the Senator
              from Wayne [Mr. Henderson] makes comes with its own objection. After the Senate is
              organized will be the proper time to give this question a deliberate investigation.
              The mode proposed to raise the question now is utterly unknown to law.
            Mr. HENDERSON raised the point of order, that the Chair has made a decision from
              which an appeal has been taken.
            The LT. GOVERNOR. There is no Senate to which the Senator can appeal. The call of the
              roll shows that there are but 20 Senators who hold over, and it takes 34 to con-  stitute a quorum, consequently, there is no Senate
              to whom the Senator can appeal.
            Mr. HUGHES. It seems to me better to let Senators elect who are not objected to be
              sworn in, and then we will have a Senate outside of this question. With the permission
              of the Senate I will suggest that it is undoubtedly paalimentary law that the person
              holding a certificate of election is prima facie entitled to be
              sworn in, but where objection is made that person should stand aside until the body is
              organized, which, under the Constitution, has the right to decide the question of
              eligibility. There are Senators now upon the threshold of Congress elected from
              States, and objection being made, their credentials were referred in this manner and
              they have been waiting these three or four years. I refer to the case of the State of
              Georgia. It is a matter of every day occurrence in Congress that where objection is
              made to a member being sworn in, the presiding officer or clerk of the House of
              Representatives waives the matter until those to whom there is no objection may be
              sworn in. I suggest that those gentlemen to whom there is no objection be sworn in
              first and take their seats. Then the Senate will be duly organized and can be put in
              possession of the facts a this case. If the chair decides it now, it zeill only be
              anticipating the question three or four minutes time.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR--The decision of the chair is that there is no sufficient reason
              presented why the Senator from Madison and Delaware may not be sworn in. The chair
              will direct that he be sworn and then the question will be determined after the Senate
              is organized.
            Mr. HUGHES inquired if the appeal has been presented in regular form.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR--I do not know. The chair decides that there is no Senate to
              appeal to until there are 34 Senators.
            Two other Senators elect appearing in the chamber they were called forward, and by
              direction of the Lieut. Governor the oath was administered to them all at once by Hon.
              Alex. C. Downey, one of the Judges of the Supreme Court of Indiana.
            Mr. HENDERSON now again submitted his written appeal, signed by himself and Mr.
              Denbo. He also presented the following remonstrance, charges, specifications,
              &c.
            To the Senate of Indiana:
            The undersigned, qualified voters of the counties of Madison and Delaware, and
              members of both political parties, respectfully represent that a notice of contest was
              duly filed within the time prescribed by law, in the office of the Clerk of the
              Delaware Circuit Court,giving notice of intention to contest the election of John W.
              Burson, declared elected to the General Assembly of the State of Indiana as Senator
              for the district composed of the counties of Madison and Delaware, at the general
              election held in said State on Tuesday, the 11th of October, A. D., 1870, for the
              reasons and upon the grounds get forth in said notice, a copy of which said notice,
              duly certified by the Clerk of said court, is hereunto annexed, marked "A."
            Your petitioners further state that they do protest and remonstrate against the said
              John W. Burson being allowed to take his seat as such Senator, for the following
              reasons, viz:
            That said John W. Burson is disqualified from holding said office in this that prior
              to, and on said 11th day of October, 1870, he did, as your petitioners are informed
              and believe, offer, give and pay to divers citizens and electors of said counties of
              Madison and Delaware, certain sums of money and other rewards in order to procure his
              election to said office.
            That his election to said office was obtained through fraud and corruption in this:
              that he secretly, fraudulently and corruptly, and by the use of large sums of money
              caused and procured a large number of the tickets bearing the name of his competitor
              for said office, Wm. B. Kline, to be destroyed upon the eve of the election and after
              the name had been sent to the different townships for distribution, and when it was
              too late to have the same replaced. That he secretly, fraudulently and corruptly, and
              by the use of money, caused and procured the name of his competitor for said office to
              be omitted from large numbers of the printed tickets used and intended to be used at
              said elections, in such manner as to mislead and deceive the voters thereof.
            Your petitioners further state that they are informed and believe that the foregoing
              charges are true in substance and in fact, and can be fully substantiated and
              proved.
            Wherefore, your petitioners pray that your honorable body may investigate said
              charges fully and take such action thereupon as may be proper; and that said election
              be returned to the people of said counties, in order that a fair expression of their
              wishes may be had in the premises.
            Delaware County--Wm. B. Kline, S. J. Watson, Adam Wolfe, Henry C. Winans, Barnet B.
              Stephens, Dr. M. James, R. C. Bell, B. R. Adamson, Martin Gallaher. J. I. Randers and
              Samuel Bradley.
            Madison County--George W. Stephenson, H. D. Thompson, A. J. Griffith, C. D. Thompson,
              George W. Kline, Joseph H. Sharp and A. B. Kline.
            
              
                
                  [EXHIBIT A.] STATE OF INDIANA, DELAWARE COUNTY. ss.
                  
                    To all whom it may concern:
                  
                  Notice is hereby given that the undersigned intend to contest the election of
                    John W. Burson, recently declared, elected to the General Assembly of the State
                    of Indiana, as Senator for the District composed of the counties of Madison and
                    Delaware, at the general election held in said State, on Tuesday, the 11th of
                    October, 1870; that he intends to contest the said election on the following
                    grounds, to-wit:
                  
                    . That said John W. Burson is ineligible to the said office to
                      which he has been declared elected, in this: that prior to, and on said 11th
                      day of October,1870, he did offer,  give
                      and pay to divers citizens and electors of said counties of Madison and
                      Delaware, certain sums of money and other rewards, in order to procure his
                      election to said office.
                    . Malconduct and irregularity of the Inspectors of Elections at
                      the different polls and voting precincts of said county of Delaware, in this,
                      that said Inspectors received ballots at said elections, and allowed the same
                      to be placed on the tally sheet, and counted in favor of said John W. Burson,
                      which said ballots contained certain distinguishing marks and embellishments
                      other than the name of candidates and the officers which were voted for. viz:
                      "Republican State Ticket," and other distinguishing marks and embellishments
                      contrary to law.
                    . On account of illegal votes cast at said election, and counted
                      in favor of said John W. Burson; in this, that divers electors of said county
                      of Delaware were allowed to deposit their ballots at said election, which said
                      electors were disqualified from voting, by having previously received rewards
                      in order to procure the elaction of said John W. Burson.
                    . On account of improper, illegal and fraudulent means used and
                      employed by said John W. Burson in order to procure his election to said
                      office.
                  
                  The undersigned further states that he is a citizen of said county of Delaware,
                    and was entitled to vote at said election held on said 11th day of October,
                    1870.
                  
                    W. B. KLINE. 
                
              
            
            
              
                
                  STATE OF INDIANA, Delaware County,
                    ss.
                  William B. Kline, being duly sworn on oath, says that the matters and facts set
                    forth in the foregoing statement by him subscribed so far as stated upon his own
                    knowledge are true, and those stated upon information are true as he is informed
                    and verily believes.
                  
                    WM. B. KLINE.
                  
                  Subscribed and sworn to before me this 21st day of October, 1870.
                  
                    GEORGE W. GREEN,
                      Clerk. 
                
              
            
            Endorsed as follows:
            
              
                
                  STATE OF INDIANA, Delaware County.
                  In the Delaware Circuit Court,
                  Notice of contest of election of John W. Burson. Filed October 21st, 1870.
                  
                    GEO. W. GREENE,
                      Clerk. 
                
              
            
            
              
                
                  STATE OF INDIANA, Delaware County.
                    ss.
                  George W. Greene. Clerk of the Delaware Circuit Court in and for said county,
                    hereby certifies that the within and foregoing is a true, correct and complete
                    copy of the notice of contest of the election of John W. Burson to the office of
                    State Senator, and also of the endorsement thereon written, as the same now
                    appears on the files in my office.
                  In witness of which I hereto subscribe my name and affix the seal of said
                    Circuit Court, at the city of Muncie, this 31st day of December, 1870.
                  
                    GEO. W. GREENE,
                      Clerk. 
                
              
            
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The question is shall the decision of the Chair stand as the
              judgment of the Senate?
            Mr. BURSON. While I am ready and willing that the remonstrance should go to the
                Committee on Elections, if it is to be discussed here, I have
              something to say in the matter. As far as [inaudible at this reporter's desk] is
              concerned it is false. They have had time since the date of this paper to hunt up and
              have the proof here. I have never had any legal notice of the filing of that paper. I
              have had no notice of a contest served upon me, but I have understood from rumor that
              notice was filed. My attorney has called upon that clerk a number of times, and he
              stated that the papers were filed, but he didn't know as they were there now; he never
              could find them. If the matter should be investigated, I think every Senator will see
              that the notice is entirely insufficient. Mr. Kline has sworn to some things of his
              own knowledge, and others that he believes to be true; so Senators have no knowledge
              of what he swears to, or what he believes. That is all the statement I want to make at
              this time. I have knowledge of this matter only from rumor in the neighborhood. When
              my attorney called upon the clerk he could not see the papers, and did not know they
              were there.
            Mr. HOOPER understood the simple question before the Senate to be this: Whether a
              Senator presenting credentials regular upon their face is entitled to be sworn in or
              not Upon that question it seemed to him that, there could be no doubt. He thought the
              Chair was right, and should be sustained in the course taken.
            Mr. BROWN. The subject matter of the appeal, it occurred to him, was not the proper
              question before the Senate The question is whether the ruling of the President is
              right or not. He recited the case before the Senate, and inquired whether the
              objection and the word of a Senater [Mr. Henderson] that he will prosecute a contest
              which will impeach the authority of this person to the privileges of the floor of the
              Senate would not destroy the prima facie evidence to such an extent
              that it should not be considered until the Senate is organized. The constituency of
              every Senator has the right to be represented upon, every imaginable question here.
              The President of the Senate has no constituency--he represents nobody as a
              Senator--and whether the Senator from Delaware [Mr. Burson,] had prima
                facie evidence or not, the people had the right to be represented, and not,
              with all due deference to the Chair, be ignored by the Chair.
            Mr. MARTINDALE referred to the mode of prosecuting contests in this body as laid down
              by the statute, and contended that there was no pretensions made here that this
              proceeding conformed with it. The action of Congress, cited as precedents here, is not
              at all in point, for when the Senator's [Mr. Burson's] credentials were presented
              there was no quorum here. There probably were only 20 Senators in their seats, and no
              motion could be entertained by the Chair, it matters not what the character of the
              motion was, until there was an orgation.
            Mr. HUGHES was glad to see a disposition manifested to return to what is supposed to
                 be constitutional law. The argument that has
              just been made very conclusively proves that half a dozen Senators or a dozen
              Senators, in the absence of others outside the bar who hold certificates of election,
              are not competent to do any legislative act. He found at the last session of the
              Senate, in the fore part of this book [the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS], running
              through several pages, that the presiding officer of this body held that doctrine;
              that a minority were competent only to adjourn from day to day and compel the
              attendance of absentees, but he found, toward the close of the book, that some
              progress was made upon that question, and that it was ascertained that there was no
              such thing as a minority of a State Legislature, and that while a majority stood
              outside of the bar with certificates those inside had the right to transact
              legislative business of the highest moment--to change the Constitution of the State,
              So much by way of comment upon the consistency which claims protection of law in one
              breath when it suits the purposes of party, and rejects it in another when it is
              deemed necessary to tear down the constitution of the country. Mr. H. continued his
              remarks at some length, claiming that the Lieutenant Govvernor was simply a clerk, and
              not a presiding officer at the time of the presentation of Mr. Henderson's appeal, and
              consequently had no power to decide this question of the admission of Mr. Burson.
            Mr. WILLIAMS referred to the contested case of Leonidas Sexton, of Rush county, in
              the House of Representatives, at the session of 1867, as being one similar to
              this.
            Mr. MARTINDALE regarded that as no precedent in this case.
            Mr. JOHNSTON obtained leave to offer a resolution, which was adopted, that the rules
              and orders of the last session, except the last clause of the sixth article (which
              vests the appointment of committees in the President of the Senate) be adopted as the
              rules of the presnt session until otherwise ordered.
            Mr. SCOTT believed the decision of the Chair to be correct upon the simple ground--it
              is the ground sustained by parliamentary law as well as common sense.
            Mr. HADLEY replied to the Senator from Monroe (Mr. Hughes), and contended that the
              charge that this side of the House were inconsistent--that when it subserved our
              purposes we took a position that less than thirty-three Senators were a quorum to do
              business--is unwarranted by the facts.
            Mr. BROWN demanded the previous question, and the demand being sustained by
              twenty-six Senators--
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR stated the question to be, Shall the decision of the Chair
              stand as the judgment of the House?
            The Senate refused to sustain the decision of the Chair, by yeas, 23; nays, 25.
            Mr. HENDERSON offered a resolution that the papers in this case be referred to a
              select committee.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved that the resolution be laid on the table.
            Mr. Hughes objected to the calling of the name of the Senator from Delaware, because
              by the decision of the Senate he is not a member of the body.
            The Lieut. GOVERNOR did not understand that the Senator from Delaware is not a member
              of this body, and until the Senate shall so decide. The Chair will request the
              Secretary to call the roll of the Senate.
            Mr. BROWN. As it is the opinion of the Senate that the decision of the Chair was
              wrong, does it not necessarily imply that there was an error in the swearing?
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR--It places the chair in an uncomfortable position and dilemma,
              and it is due the chair that the Senate determine the question without doubt whether
              they mean to say the Senator has no right upon this floor. It might be inferred, but
              is not a necessary inference from the action of the Senate, and if that is the purpose
              of the Senate it would relieve the chair for the Senate to say so.
            Mr. GRAY took the ground that Mr. Burson, having been sworn in, is as much a Senator
              as any Senator on this floor.
            Mr. HUGHES asserted that as Mr. Burson was irregularly sworn in, he is not sworn in
              at all, and that he cannot vote until the Senate allow him to be sworn in.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR--The Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] rises to the point of
              order, that the name of the Senator from Delaware [Mr. Burson] may not be called until
              further action of the Senate. The Chair will overrule that point of order, and the
              decision of that question, as a matter of course, will decide the question.
            Mr. BROWN appealed from the decision of the Chair. The appeal was signed by Mr. Brown
              and Mr. Hughes.
            Mr. BRADLEY contended that Mr. Burson had not been sworn in, if the vote of the
              Senate meant anything at all. The Senate has decided that no proper qualifications
              have been presented by Mr. Burson, hence he has no right to vote until he gets in by a
              vote of the Senate.
            Mr. HENDERSON demanded the previous question, and the Senate seconded his demand.
            The Senate refused again to sustain the decision of the Chair by yeas 23, nays
              25.
            The Senate then refused to lay Mr. Henderson's resolution on the table by yeas 21,
              nays 26.
            The resolution was adopted by yeas 26, nays 21.
          
          
            SECRETARIES AND DOORKEEPER.
            On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, the Senate proceeded to the election of Principal
              Secretary of the Senate.
            Mr. HENDERSON nominated William R. Harrison, of Martinsville, Morgan county.
            Mr. HADLEY nominated Milton A, Osborn, of Putnam county.
            The first ballot elected Mr. Harrison by 26 votes to Mr. Osborn's 20, and he was
              sworn in.
            For Assistant Secretary, James W. Cole, of 
              Tippecanoe county, received 26 votes, to 21 votes for T. W. 0. Braffit, of Wayne
              county, and he subsequently took the oath of office.
            For Doorkeeper, James W. Cookerly, of Monroe county, received 26 votes, and James W.
              Cole, of Tippecanoe, received 21 votes. The former gentleman was duly sworn in.
            Mr. BROWN moved to reconsider the vote by which Mr. Henderson's resolution was
              adopted, and to lay that motion on the table.
            The latter motion was agreed to.
            And then came a recess.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR called the Senate to order at 2 o'clock.
            Mr. DENBO offered a resolution announcing to the House the organization of the
              Senate.
            The resolution was adopted.
            
              WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
              Mr. BROWN offered the following joint resolution:
              
                
                  
                    WHEREAS, For some months past it has been stated in the
                      public prints, that an effort would be made to have the present General
                      Assembly of this State purchase the Wabash and Erie Canal, and in payment
                      therefor assume the payment of the Canal bonds, the payment of which by the
                      act of January 19. 1846, and the act of January 27,1847 supplementary thereto,
                      commonly known as the "Butler bills," is charged exclusively upon said canal,
                      its lands, tolls and revenues; and,
                    WHEREAS, His Excellency Governor Baker did, on the 5th day
                      of November, 1868, allow the United States a credit on the allowed war claims
                      held by this State against she United States of two hundred and seventy seven
                      thousand three hundred dollars, which credit was allowed because of the United
                      States surrendering to His Excellency one hundred and forty-one old internal
                      improvement bonds of the denomination of one thousand dollars each and
                      interest theron to the amount of one hundred and thirty-six thousand three
                      hundred dollars, which improvement bonds were issued prior to the year 1846,
                      under the laws to provide for a general system of internal improvement in this
                      State, and
                    WHEREAS, The payment of the full amount of principal and
                      interest of said old internal improvement bonds, by his Excellency, was
                      unauthorized by any law of this State, and in direct violation of the act of
                      January 19,1846, entitled, 'an act to provide for the funded debt of the State
                      of Indiana,and for the completion of the Wabash and Erie canal to Evansville,"
                      and the act of January 27, 1847, supplementary thereto, and particularly in
                      violation of the latter proviso of section eight of said last mentioned act;
                      therefore, be it
                    Resolvedby the Senate, the House of Representatives
                      concurring, That the General Assembly of the State of Indiana has no power
                      under the Constitution of the State to purchase the Wabash and Erie Canal, and
                      if the General Assembly had the power, it would be impolitic, unwise, and
                      injurious to the best interests of the people of the State to purchase said
                      canal; and be it further
                    Resolved, By the Senate, the House of Representatives
                      concurring, that the action of His Excellency the Governor of this State, on
                      the 5th day of November, 1868, in the settlement of one hundred and forty-one
                      of the old internal improvement bonds, the principal and interest thereof
                      amounting to two hundred and seventy-seven thousand three hundred dollars, was
                      unauthorized by any law of this State, in direct violation of the acts of 1846
                      and 1847, commonly known as the "Butler bills," and meets the disproval of
                      this General Assembly; and be it further
                    Resolved, By the Senate, the House of Representative concurring, that this
                      General Assembly of the State of Indiana, will make no provision for the
                      payment of the principal or interest of the old internal improvement bonds,
                      except as provided in the acts of 1846 and 1847,commonly known as "the Butler
                      bills."
                  
                
              
              Mr. BROWN moved that this joint resolution be made the special order for Tuesday
                next at 2 1/2 o'clock.
              Mr. GREEN supposed this would be a fiery question, and would rather it would be
                postponed till a later day. The bonds Governor Baker settled with the General
                Government were outside and separate from the acts of '46-7. Senators will want more
                time to reflect. He suggested Tuesday week.
              Mr. BROWN had no objection if it were the pleasure of the Senate, though he would
                prefer Thursday.
              The motion as modified was agreed to, and it stands as the special order for
                Thursday next.
            
            
              BREVIER REPORTS, REVISED STATUTES, ETC.
              Mr. ANDREWS offered a resolution to furnish each Senator with a copy of Gavin &
                Hord, the journals and BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS of the two last sessions.
              Mr. CARNAHAN moved to amend by obliging each member to receipt for the copies of
                Gavin & Hord and agree to return them to the State Library.
              Mr. HUGHES offered a substitute resolution embracing Mr. Carnahan's amendment.
              The substitute was agreed to.
              The resolution as amended was adopted.
              Mr. DENBO offered a resolution authorizing the appointment of a committee of three
                to supervise the selection of such assistants to officers as they may deem necessary
                and no more.
              Mr. GRAY made an ineffectual motion to lay the resolution on the table-yeas 3, nays
                44.
              The resolution was adopted, and Messrs. Denbo, Steele and Hooper were appointed
                said committee
            
            
              JOINT CONVENTION.
              Mr. BROWN offered a resolution for a joint convention next Wednesday at 2 1/2
                o'clock, for the election of officers.
              Mr. GREEN moved to amend by specifying the officers.
              Mr. BROWN moved to lay the amendment on the table.
              Mr. HUGHES raised the point of order that the motion was not in the nature of an
                amendment.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR sustained the point of order.
              Mr. MARTINDALE moved to add an amendment that inasmuch as the bonded debt of the
                State, so far as bonds have been presented, is paid, it is the duty of this General
                Assembly to abolish the office of Agent of State, and that these duties be performed
                by the Treasurer of State without additional salary or compensation.
              Mr. JOHNSTON made an ineffectual motion--yeas 23, nays 24--to lay the amendment on
                the table.

              

              Mr. BROWN explained that the reason why he did not in the resolution name the
                officers to be elected was to give time to investigate into the tenure of this
                office of Agent of State. He was not knowing that the debt was paid. Some time ago,
                when the Senator said the debt was paid, it was not paid, and that may be the case
                now. The proposition that the duties of the Agent of State shall be performed by the
                Treasurer of State is as novel as it is astounding. Again, his amendment is
                inconsistent, for, if the debt is paid, there is nothing for the Agent of State to
                do; if it is not paid, there must be an Agent of State elected.
              Mr. MARTINDALE was sure the gentleman from Jackson [Mr. Brown] had not listened
                carefully to the reading of the amendment. The five per cent, bonded indebtedness
                can not be paid off till we get hold of them. The amendment says the debt is paid so
                far as presented, and it simply provides that this office of Agent of State shall
                not be continued simply to pay the interest on one or $200,000, which can be done in
                a day or two by the Treasurer of State. Here is an office--one of the most lucrative
                in the gift of the State--for which there is no necessity; and as many gentlemen
                here were elected on the professions of retrenchment and reform, he desired such
                pretensions should be carried out in good faith. Now is the proper time to limit the
                action of the joint convention.
              Mr. WILLIAMS offered an amendment to the amendment by striking out and inserting
                the words "except Agent of State."
              The amendment was agreed to by yeas 27, nays 10.
              The resolution as amended was adopted by yeas 28, nays 17.
              Mr. HUGHES moved to reconsider the vote just taken in order to amend the same by
                providing that if said office is not abolished prior to the Convention, said office
                shall be filled by the Convention.
              The motion to reconsider was agreed to.
              Mr. MARTENDALE made an ineffectual motion--yeas 22, nays 25, to lay the motion on
                the table.
              Mr. ROSEBROUGH offered an amendment, (which was accepted by Mr. Hughes) postponing
                the election of Agent of State four weeks.
              The amendment was agreed to.
              The resolution as amended was adopted.
            
            
              THE BURSON CONTEST.
              On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, Messrs. Henderson, Elliott, Williams and Scott were
                appointed a committee to examine, and report on the Burson contested election
                case.
            
            
              TO WAIT ON THE GOVERNOR.
              Mr. HADLEY offered a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing a committee of two
                on the part of the Senate to act with a committee on the part of the House, to wait
                upon the Governor and inform him of the organization of the Legislature.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR makes Messrs. Hadley and Fuller said committee on the part
                of the Senate.
              And then--
              The Senate adjourned under the rules till 2 o'clock to-morrow afternoon.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            THURSDAY, January 5, 1871.
          
          The elect members of the House of Representatives of the Forty-seventh General Assembly
            of the State of Indiana met this day in regular session in the Hall of the House of
            Representatives of the old State House, in the city of Indianapolis.
          Before the hour of ten o'clock A. M., Mr. Clerk Merwin, of the last General Assembly,
            called the House to order, and proceeded to call the names of all the members elect, in
            connection with their several Representative Districts according to the last
            apportionment; and they severally responded and received the oath qualification at the
            hand of the Hon. Samuel H. Buskirk, one of the Judges of the Supreme Court of the State
            of Indiana, as follows:
          
            
              
                
                  For the County of Posey--Wolfgang Hynes.
                  For Vanderburg--Wm. Heilman, Robert F Hooker.
                  For Warrick--G. D. Robertson.
                  For Gibson--W. J. McGowan.
                  For Pike--Robert Logan.
                  For Knox--H. S. Cauthorn.
                  For Daviess--Robert P. Haynes.
                  For Dubois and Martin--R. C. Stephens.
                  For Spencer--James Gentry.
                  For Crawford and Orange--Luke B. Coggswell.
                  For Washington--J. H. Oatley.
                  For Harrison--Peter Zenor.
                  For Floyd--Jnmes H. Rice.
                  For Clarke--Henry J. Barnaby.
                  For Jefferson--James W. Deputy.
                  For Jefferson, Scott and Clarke--John D. Simpson.
                  For Jefferson and Ripley--Daniel P. Monroe.
                  For Ohio and Switzerland--W. G. Holland.
                  For Dearborn--Warren Tebbs.
                  For Franklin--Israel Goble.
                  For Rush--Archibald M. Kennedy.
                  For Rush and Decatur--Benjamm F. Hill.
                  For Decatur--Wm. F. Strickland.
                  For Jennings--Henry C. Bruner.
                  For Bartholomew--K. D. Hawley.
                  For Bartholomew and Shelby--O. H. P. Abbott.
                  For Brown and Jackson--D. Browning.
                  For Monroe--P D. L. Mitchell.
                  For Lawrence--G. W. Friedley.
                  For Greene--J. A. Messick.
                  For Sullivan--N. D Miles.
                  For Vigo--Wm. Mack, Isaiah Donham.
                  For Clay--J. D. Walker.
                  For Owen--Wm. R. Guthrie.
                  For Putnam--Willis G. Neff.
                  For Hendricks--Allen Furnas.
                  For Putnam and Hendricks--H. B. Martin.
                  For Morgan--Noah J. Major.
                  For Morgan and Johnson--Caleb B. Tarlton.
                  For Marion--Edward King, Jamos H. Ruddell, Fielding Beeler, O. M.
                    Wilson.
                  For Hancock--Noble Warrum.
                  For Shelby--James J. Curtis.
                  For Henry--John R. Millikin.
                  For Fayette and Union--B. F. Williams.
                  For Wayne--Wm. S. Ballinger, Benj. L. Martin.
                  For Randolph--Ashbel Stone.
                  For Delaware--James P. Snodgrass.
                  For Madison--J. W. Sansberry.
                  For Madison and Henry--T. S. Lines.
                  For Hamilton--R. R. Stephenson.
                  For Hamilton and Tipton--W. W. Conner.

                  

                  For Clinton--Frank M. Caldwell.
                  For Carroll--Perry McFarland.
                  For Boone--A. E. Gordon.
                  For Boone and Clinton--Wm. J. Devol.
                  For Montgomery--John W Copner.
                  For Parke--John B. Woodard.
                  For Veramillion--Henry A. White.
                  For Fountain--David W. Cunningham.
                  For Warren--Wm. P. Rhodes.
                  For Benton and White--John W. Wymer.
                  For Cass--Wm. M. Gordon.
                  For Howard--T. M. Kilpatrick.
                  For Miami--D. Cox.
                  For Wabash--Daniel Sayers.
                  For Miami and Wabash--John L. Knight.
                  For Grant--Robert F. St John.
                  For Blackford and Jay--Wm. Toughinbaugh.
                  For Wells and Adams--Geo. McDowell.
                  For Huntington--Wm. Hendry. (not present.)
                  For Allen--Robert S Taylor and Jacob Shutt.
                  For Whitley--Isaac B. McDonald.
                  For Kosciusko--Hiram S. Briggs.
                  For Kosciusko and Fulton--Edward Calkins.
                  For Noble--Henry G. Stonley.
                  For DeKalb--Lewis D. Britton.
                  For Steuben--S. C Sabin.
                  For Lagrange--W. Rawles.
                  For Elkhart--Elam B. Myers.
                  For Elkhart--and Noble--Joseph H. Defrees.
                  For Marshall--M. M. Galletine.
                  For St. Joseph--W. W. Butterwvrth.
                  For St. Joseph and Marshall--Joseph Henderson.
                  For Laporte--William Schoenemann.
                  For Laporte and Starke--Geo. A. Netherton.
                  For Pulaski, Jasper and Newton--Israel B. Washburn.
                  For Porter--W. H. Calkins.
                  For Lake--Martin Wood.
                  For Ripley--Wm. L. Hartley.
                
              
            
          
          Mr. NEFF moved a call of the House, which proceeded and discovered every member present
            except Messrs. Freidly, Hendry and Robertson.
          After brief debate across the House about sending for absentees, and the inability of
            the House to make such an order before the organization; and the absentees, excepting
            Mr. Hendry, coming in and taking the oath of the Constitution, Mr. WILSON insisted on
            the order, and the clerk announced the order for the election of Speaker.
          On the motion by Mr. RUDDELL, the order was made by a vote of the House, and announced
            again by the Clerk.
          
            ELECTION OF SPEAKER.
            Mr. NEFF placed in nomination for Speaker, the Hon. William Mack, of Vigo county.
            Mr. WILLIAMS nominated the Hon. O. M. Wilson, of Marion county.
            No further nominations being made, the vote was taken viva voce,
              with the following result:
            
              
                
                  For Mr. Mack--Messrs. Abbott, Britton, Browning, Barnaby. Bruner, Caldwell,
                    Cauthorn, Coggswell, Copner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Devol, Donham, Galletine,
                    Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Cass, Gunthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Hawley, Haynes,
                    Henderson, Holland, Hynes, Logan, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan,
                    Minick, Miles, Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff, Oatley, Ray, Rice, Robertson,
                    Sansberry, Simpson, Shutt, Stanley, Stephens, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Tebbs,
                    Walker, Warrum, Wilson, Zenor.--61.
                  For Mr. Wilson--Messrs. Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Butterworth, Calkins of
                    Fulton, Calkins of Porter, Connor, Defrees, Deputy, Furnas, Gordon of Boone,
                    Heilman, Hill, Hooker, Kenneday, King, Kirkpatrick, Knight, Lines, Mack, Major,
                    Martin of Wayne, Martin of Putnam, Milikan, Monroe, Myers, Netherton, Rawles,
                    Rhodes, Ruddell, Sabin, Sayers, Shoenemann, Snodgrass, Stephenson, St. John,
                    Stone, Strickland, Taylor, Washburn, Weekly Williams, White, Wymer, Wood,
                    Woodard--46.
                
              
            
            Mr. MACK having received the requisite majority.
            The CLERK declared his election as Speaker of the House of Representatives, and
              called on Messrs. Wilson, of Marion, and Neff, of Putnam, to conduct him to the
              Chair.
            Hereupon the Speaker received the oath of his office at the hand of Judge Buskirk,
              and delivered the following address from the Chair:
            
              Gentlemen of the House of Representatives:
            
            To be selected by the hundred Representatives of the great State of Indiana to
              preside over your deliberations is an honor that I fully appreciate. And I hope with
              your patience and assistance to be able to so discharge the responsible duties of the
              office that when the time shall come for me to surrender this gavel I may still retain
              the respect and confidence of the members of this honorable body.
            Gentlemen: The political canvass of 1870, which resulted in our election, was marked
              by less partisan feeling and political acrimony than any canvass in the last twenty
              years.
            We were chosen not to advance the interests of any political party, but to legislate
              for the whole people; and the men who sent us here expect us to examine with zealous
              care the financial condition of the State; to remove with a firm and steady hand all
              the superfluities and excrescences of the body politic; to adopt and enforce a rigid
              system of economy in every department from the highest to the lowest, to correct the
              abuses of which the citizens justly complain, growing out of the fees and salaries of
              officers; in short, to see that every dollar that is wrung by taxation from the hard
              earnings of the people shall be appropriated and applied solely for the public
              good.
            They will expect you to protect and guard the public funds with the same zeal,
              fidelity and watchfulness that each of you would guard the little estate left in your
              hands by the death of a dear brother for the support of his widow and helpless
              children.
            But while you are adopting measures of economy and reform it behooves us as the
              representatives of a great State to be just and liberal. Parsimony is not economy. In
              providing for the education of our children, for the benevolent institutions of the
              State and other like matters, dare do all that may become men, who, proud of the
              present exalted position of our State, yet are ambitious to see her advance still
              higher.
            In the consummation of this work of reform let me caution you against the chang-  in of too many laws. The past history of our
              legislation shows that our laws have been so often amended, revised, repealed and
              re-enacted that none but those who make the law a profession can keep pace with these
              various changes. It is better that laws not utterly perfect should stand as they are,
              than be subjected to these constant mutations. If this system was adopted the people
              would become familiar with the laws, and thereby avoid much of the troubles arising in
              business and litigation in the courts.
            You will pardon me for allusion to another matter. We hear talk on all sides and read
              in every newspaper we examine of organizations, rings, or combinations of men, who,
              uniting wealth, intellect, beauty, and all the means by which mankind may be
              approached, use their influence and power to obtain legislation for their private
              interest, to the detriment of the public good.
            The measures of mighty import which you have to consider may invite them to this
              assembly.
            Can I not have the assurance of each member's pledge of honor, sacred as the oath he
              has this day taken, that in whatever shape or guise this hydraheaded monster may
              approach him, whether with the sweet voice of the fabled syrens, the specious wisdom
              of venal intellect, or the more potent agency of moneyed influences, you will in the
              dignity of insulted manhood, stamp the proposers with the brand of infamy; that you
              will shun and avoid them as you would avoid a contact with the leper, whose touch is
              death. That whatever may be their name or proposed object or intellectual or social
              position, they are to have neither aid nor comfort, sympathy, friendship or power
              within this Legislative Hall.
            May I not hope that we may so discharge our duties that when our arduous labors have
              closed, and we have bade adieu to each other and to this beautiful and pleasant city,
              and shall have returned to our homes and avocations, we may find not only those of our
              constituents who gave us their support,but even those who voted against us, extending
              to us the open palm of welcome, and exclaiming well done, well done faithful
              servant!
          
          
            CLERKS AND DOORKEEPER.
            Mr. ZENOR moved the next order, which was adopted, and the House proceeded to the
              election of Principal Clerk.
            Mr. McDonald nominated Samuel W. Holmes, of Jackson county.
            Mr. Stephenson nominated the Hon. D. C. Donahue, of Putnam county.
            Hereupon--
            Mr. Holmes received 52 votes.
            Mr. Donahue received 46 votes.
            The SPEAKER declared the election of Mr. Holmes as Principal Clerk, and he received
              the official oath at the hand of Judge Buskirk.
            On motion of Mr. TEBBS, the House proceeded to the election of Assistant Clerk, and
              Messrs. Fred S. Williams, of Tippecanoe county, and Milton M. Sill, of White county,
              were placed in nomination.
            The result gave Mr. Williams 52 votes, and Mr. Sill 45 votes.
            The SPEAKER declared the election of Mr. Williams to the office of Assistant Clerk,
              and he was sworn in by Judge Buskirk.
            Mr. ABBOTT moved the next order, which was adopted, to-wit: the election of
              Doorkeeper.
            Mr. BARNABY nominated F. M. Schell, of Clarke county.
            Mr. RUDDELL nominated Thomas McConn, of Wabash county.
            Hereupon--
            Mr. Schell received 52 votes.
            Mr. McConn 46 votes.
            F. M. Schell was then declared to be the Doorkeeper, and qualified by the oath of
              office, at the hands of Judge Buskirk.
          
          
            AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION.
            Mr. NEFF obtained leave to introduce a joint resolution (H. R. No. 1) for amendment
              to the Constitution of the State so as to prohibit legislation toward taking back the
              Wabash and Erie canal, and to declare that any legislation for the reissue or for the
              payment of such bonds or in any way recognizing them as valid shall be void.
            Mr. NEFF said he desired this preamble and resolution for an amendment to the
              constitution, to be laid on the table for the present, and he gave notice that he
              would call it up at some early day after the comittees shall be appointed, and asked
              to have it referred to the appropriate committee.
            The joint resolution was accordingly laid on the table.
            Mr. RUDDELL moved that the Clerk be instructed to inform the Senate of the
              organization of the House of Representatives, and that this body is ready for the
              transaction of business.
            Mr. NEFF proposed to substitute the formal resolution for the order moved by Mr.
              Ruddell, reciting the names of the officers elected by the House, which was accepted
              and adopted; and the order was made accordingly.
          
          
            RULES.
            Mr. ZENOR submitted a resolution which was adopted, declaring the rules adopted for
              the government of the last House of Representatives be the rules of this House until
              otherwise ordered, and that a committee of five members be appointed to revise said
              rules, and that said committee make their report on Monday next.
            Mr. HARDIN submitted a resolution that the Speaker appoint five members as a
              committee to report the number of employes necessary for the business of the
              House.
            Mr. ZENOR proposed to substitute: That the Speaker of the House appoint a committee
              of five members to whom the Secretaries and Doorkeepers shall report the names of all
              assistants by them appointed; and it shall be the duty of the committee to report the
              authorization of the appointment of such as are needed; and that none shall draw pay
              as appointees except those authorized by'the House.
            Mr. HARDIN accepted the substitute, and so it was adopted.

            

            The SPEAKER announced said committee, and it consists of Messrs. Zenor, Neff,
              Minnick, Ruddell and Stephenson.
            Mr. MARTIN of Putnam and Hendricks, submitted a resolution, which was adopted,
              declaring that the daily meetings of the House of Representatives shall be at 9
              o'clock A. M. until otherwise ordered.
            Mr. ZENOR moved an adjournment till 2 o'clock, and accordingly the House took a
              recess.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed the Chair at 2 o'clock P. M., and laid before the House a
              communication from Rev. John B. Brandt in behalf of the Young Men's Christian
              Association, tendering to the House of Representatives daily chaplain service without
              cost to the State.
            On motion of Mr. RUDDELL it was
            Ordered, That the House accept the tender of service, and that the
              Speaker appoint a committee of two to inform Mr. Frandt of the fact.
            Mr. WILLIAM HENDRY, Representative elect for the county of Huntington, now appeared
              within the bar of the House, and, on motion, he presented his credentials, received
              the oath, and took his seat.
            
              RULES.
              Mr. ABBOTT submitted an order that the Doorkeeper be requested to furnish each
                member with a copy of the standing rules and orders of the House of Representatives
                adopted at the last session.
              Mr. RUDDELL suggested the modification that such copies be furnished as are in the
                possession of the Librarian; which was accepted, and so the resolution was
                adopted.
            
            
              NEWSPAPERS AND STAMPS.
              Mr. McDONALD submitted a resolution, which was adopted, for a committee to report
                on the matter of newspapers and stamps for the members, to which all resolutions
                relating thereto shall be referred.
            
            
              THE STATUTES TO BE RETURNED.
              Mr. MAJOR submitted an order, which was adopted, that the statutes furnished for
                members and officers be returned to the Librarian at the close of the session.
              The SPEAKER announced the committee on the resolution of Mr. Zenor, to-wit: Messrs.
                Zenor, Abbott, Wilson, Gordon and Cox.
              Mr. WILSON moved that the thanks of the House be tendered to Judge Buskirk for his
                services in connection with the initial proceedings this morning.
              Mr. STEPHENSON moved to amend so as to include the services of the clerks of the
                last session.
              Mr. WILSON accepted, and so it was adopted.
              Mr. BRUNER submitted an order that if any elected or appointed officer of this
                House shall be negligent of his duty, or guilty of intoxication during the sessions
                of this body, he shall forfeit his position and all compensation thereafter; and any
                page, who shall be guilty of using intoxicating drinks or profane language shall
                immediately forfeit his position and pay.
              After sundry propositions to amend it was laid on the table.
            
            
              SEATS FOR MEMBERS.
              Mr. MYERS submitted an order that a committee of three be appointed by the Speaker
                who shall award to each member his seat by lot.
              On motion of Mr. CUNNINGHAM it was laid on the table.
              Mr. WILSON moved to reconsider the vote just taken, and then to lay this motion on
                the table.
              The latter motion was agreed to.
            
            
              NEWSPAPER.
               Mr. CALDWELL submitted a resolution to authorize the Doorkeeper to contract with
                the proprietors of the Indianapolis Daily JOURNAL and the proprietors of the Daily State Sentinel for three copies of their dailies for each
                member of the House during the present session, two of which are to be delivered
                wrapped and stamped; and to contract with the proprietors of the Daily Telegraph for two copies of their daily, to be wrapped, stamped and
                delivered as aforesaid; and that the House reserves the right to rescind said
                contracts if the said parties fail to publish the proceedings of this House.
              It was referred to the Committee on Newspapers and Stamps.
            
            
              LOBBY FOR MEMBERS.
              Mr. WILSON, after stating some of the reasons for it, submitted a motion for an
                order to set apart the north lobby of the hall for the exclusive use of members, and
                to place a doorkeeper at the east and west end of said lobby.
              The order was adopted.
            
            
              COMPENSIONAT OF COUNTY OFFICERS.
              Mr. STEPHENSON, obtaining leave for that purpose, introduced a bill [H. R. No. 1]
                for an act to regulate the salaries and compensation of county officers, and
                repealing all acts for the compensation of said officers inconsistent with this act,
                and providing penalties for violation of the provisions of this act.
              Mr. FURNAS, in consideration of the importance of that bill, and knowing the temper
                of the House in reference to a fee and salary bill, moved that two hundred copies of
                it be printed for the use of the House and Senate.
              The motion was agreed to.
            
            
              CORONER'S JURIES.
              Mr. ZENOR introduced a bill [H. R. 2,] for an act to amend sections 4 and 6 of the
                act prescribing the powers and duties of Coroners, approved May 27, 1852, and
                declaring an emergency. [Six jurors.]
              It was referred to the Committee on County and Township
                Business.
            
            
              THIRD JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
              Mr. CAUTHORN introduced a bill [H. R. 3,] for an act to fix the time of holding
                Circuit Courts in the Third Judicial Circuit, and repealing, etc. [The Third Circuit
                in-  cludes the counties of Gibson, Daviess,
                Martin and Knox ]
              It was referred to a select committee composed of five members from said
                district.
            
            
              VOLUNTARY ASSIGNMENTS.
              Mr. TEBBS introduced a bill [H. R. 4,] for an act in relation to voluntary
                assignments in trust for the use of creditors, and to the powers of Common Pleas
                Courts in relation therto.
              It lies over in the Calendar for to-morrow.
              Mr. WARRUM introduced a bill [H. R. 5,] for an act limiting and defining the extent
                of the powers of grand juries in certain criminal cases, and repealing etc. [It
                prohibits the finding of indictments for offences less than a felony.]
              It lies over in the Calendar for to-morrow.
            
            
              FEES OF COUNTY OFFICERS.
              Mr. McDONALD submitted a resolution, which was adopted, for a special committee of
                one member from each Congressional District, to which shall be referred all bills on
                the subject of fees and salaries of county officers.
              A message was now received from the Senate to acquaint the House of the
                organisation of that body and of its readiness to proceed to Legislative
                business.
              Mr. NEFF submitted an order, which was adopted, for the appointment of a committee
                of two on the part of the House to act with such committee as may be appointed on
                the part of the Senate to wait on the Governor and inform him that the General
                Assembly is duly organized and ready to receive his Excellency's official
                communications.
              Whereupon, the SPEAKER appointed Messrs. Neff and Wilson to serve as said
                Committee.
              The SPEAKER now announced the special committee of one from each Congressional
                District to consider propositions regulating the fees and salaries of county
                officers.
              Also the committee to consider Mr. Cauthorn's court bill [H. R. 3], namely: Messrs.
                Cauthorn, McGowan, Haynes, Logan and Stephens.
              Also the committee in relation to the communication from the Young Men's Christian
                Association, namely: Messrs. Ruddell and Defrees.
              The House then adjourned till to-morrow morning at 9 o'clock.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            FRIDAY, January 6, 1871.
          
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR called the Senate to order at 2 o'clock P. M.--pursuant to the
            adjournment yesterday, under the rule.
          The Secretary's journal of yesterday's proceedings was read, corrected and
            approved.
          
            JOINT CONVENTION.
            On motion of Mr. GREENE, the House message inviting the Senate to a joint session,
              for the purpose of hearing the Governor's message this afternoon at 2 1/2 o'clock, was
              taken up and concurred in.
            Mr. HADLEY, from, the joint committee appointed to wait on the Governor, reported
              that His Excellency would deliver his message this afternoon, at 2 1/2 o'clock, in the
              Hall of the House of Representatives.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR announced the continuance of the same committee on the part
              of the Senate to again wait on the Governor and inform him that the Senate was ready
              to attend in a body and hear the delivery of his message in the Hall of the House.
          
          
            STANDING COMMITTEES.
            Mr. JOHNSTON offered the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved. That there be selected by the Senate a committee of
                    seven. consisting of Senators Bradley, Glessner, Carnahan, Henderson, Scott,
                    Martindale and Gray, whose duty it shall be to appoint the Standing Committees
                    of this Senate and report the same to the Senate as soon as practicable for its
                    action.
                
              
            
            Mr. BRADLEY demanded the previous question. The demand was seconded by the Senate and
              the resolution adopted by yeas 25, nays 20, as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown, Carnahan, Cave,
                    Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty, Elliott, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg.
                    Henderson, Hughes, Johnson, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan, Rosebrough,
                    Sarninghausen, Straud and Williams--26.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley. Beeson, Caven, Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley,
                    Hamilton, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard, Martindale, Miller, Robinson, Scott, Steele,
                    Taylor, Wadge and Wood--20.
                
              
            
          
          
            RULES OF THE SENATE.
            Mr. HENDERSON offered the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That Senators Glessner, Williams, Dougherty,
                    Hooper, and Hadley, be appointed a a committee to revise the rules of the
                    Senate, and report as soon as practicable.
                
              
            
            It was adopted.
          
          
            PAGES.
            Mr. BROWN submitted the following resolution, which was adopted:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the Lieutenant Governor be authorized to
                    select one clerk and one page, to be under his exclusive control, and the
                    Secretary of the Senate one page, to be under his exclusive control, and the
                    Doorkeeper two pages for the Senate.
                
              
            
          
          
            JOINT CONVENTION.
            When Senators returned and order was restored--
          
          
            SESSION HOURS.
            Mr. JOHNSTON offered a resolution making the daily sessions of the Senate to commence
              at 10 o'clock A. M.
            It lies over one day under the rules.
          
          
            RECESS TILL MONDAY.
            On motion of Mr. HOOPER it was--
            Ordered, That when the Senate adjourns it adjourn till Monday
              next.
          
          
            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
            Mr. CAVEN introduced a joint resolution [S. 1.] proposing an amendment to the
              constitution by adding to the Xth article a section in relation to the Wabash and Erie
              Canal.
            It is ordered:
            
              
                
                  Be it Resolved by the General Assembly of the State of
                      Indiana, That the following amendment be and hereby is proposed to the
                    Constitution of this State; and that the same be and is hereby agreed to and
                    submitted to the electors of the State for their ratification or rejection.
                    Provided the same shall be agreed to by a majority of all the members elected to
                    each House of the General Assembly of the State, to be chosen at the next
                    general election,said amendment to consist of the addition of the following
                    section to the Tenth Article of the Constitution, in the language following:
                  SECTION VII, No act of legislation shall ever take effect or
                    become the law of this State whereby the canal stocks or any part thereof,
                    issued and charged on the Wabash and Erie Canal tolls, lands, &c, pursuant
                    to an Act of the Legislature of Indiana, approved January 19th, 1846, entitled
                    "An Act to provide for the funded debt of the State of Indiana and for the
                    completion of the Wabash and Erie Canal to Evansville," and the Act
                    supplementary thereto, approved January 27th, 1847, shall be recognized as a
                    debt of this State or charged upon the treas  ury or revenues thereof by way of redeeming said Canal or otherwise, until
                    such act of legislation shall have been submitted to the qualified voters of
                    this State at a special election to be held for that purpose in pursuance of
                    law, and ratified by a majority of the votes cast at such election.
                  Resolved further. That the foregoing joint resolution be and
                    the same is hereby referred to the General Assembly of this State to be chosen
                    at the general election to be held on the second Tuesday in October, in the year
                    of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-two.
                
              
            
            On Mr. C.'s suggestion this joint resolution was made the special order for Thursday
              next at 2 1/2 o'clock P. M., the time already fixed upon for the consideration of a
              similar concurrent resolution, [Mr. Brown's.]
          
          
            WATER WORKS--CITY AID.
            Mr. BRADLEY, by leave, introduced a bill [S. 1] to legalize bonds of cities issued to
              aid in the construction of water works, and the sale and hypothication of said bonds;
              to legalize all orders, motions and ordinances of cities for the construction of water
              works, and all acts done and contracts made under and in pursuance thereof; and to
              authorize the issuing and sale of bonds and negotiation of temporary loans, to raise
              money to carry out and comply with contracts heretofore made for the establishment and
              construction of water works, and to fully complete said works, which was read the
              first time.
            Mr. BRADLEY also submitted a petition from the Common Council of the city of Laporte,
              praying the enactment of the bill (which was not read). Mr. B. said he did not think
              this measure would affect any other city than Laporte. He moved to suspend the
              constitutional restriction that the bill may be read the second time now.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas, 45; nays, 1--two-thirds voting in the
              affirmative.
            Mr. BRADLEY moved for a further suspension of the conststutional provision that the
              bill may be read the third time now and put upon its passage; but objection being made
              to setting the bad precedent of suspending the rules so early in the session, he
              withdrew the motion.
            The LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR. The bill will be ordered engrossed for the third reading
              to-morrow.
          
          
            HUNTERS' RIGHTR.
            Mr. JOHNSTON, by leave, introduced a bill [8. 2] to prevent hunting or shooting
              within enclosures without the consent of the owner thereof, and fixing a penalty
              there- for [misdemeanor, fine not less than $5 nor more than $50]; which was read the
              first time and passed to the second reading on to-morrow.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            Mr. MARTINDALE, by leave, introduced a bill [S. 3] to regulate the fees of certain
              officers therein named [all State and county officers], which was read the first time,
              laid on the table, and 200 copies ordered printed. This latter order was subsequently
              declared by a temporary Chairman to be in conflict with a rule of the Senate and
              therefore null and void.
            Mr. BROWN, by consent, introduced a bill (Senate 4,) prescribing certain duties of
              clerks, auditors, sheriffs and treasurers of the several counties of this State;
              fixing their compensation and regulating the appointment of bailiffs. It was read the
              first time and passed to the second reading.
          
          
            LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
            Mr. BOBO asked and obtained leave of absence for the rest of the week on account of
              ill health.
          
          
            U. S. MILITARY LANDS.
            Mr. KEIGWIN, by leave, introduced a joint resolution [8. 2] ceding to the United
              States jurisdiction over certain lands in Jeffersonville, to be used for military
              purposes, which was read the first time and passed to the second reading.
            And then the Senate adjourned till 2 o'clock Monday afternoon.
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            FRIADY, January 6, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.
          After sundry personal explanations for the correction of names erroneously recorded and
            other errors of reporters for the press- as that the resolution for a committee of one
            from each Congreseional District was laid on the table, instead of the proceedings
            reported--
          The journal of yesterday was read, corrected and authenticated.
          A message from the Senate by Mr. McLane, Secretary, announced the passage in that body
            of a concurrent resolution for a joint convention of the two Houses in the Hall of the
            House of Representatives, on Wednesday next at 2 1/2 o'clock P. M., for the purpose of
            electing the several officers elective by the General Assembly, except the Agext of
            State, etc.
          
            NEWSPAPERS, STATONERY, STAMPS.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Special Committee on the Allowance of Stationery,
                Newspapers and Stamps, reported the following resolution:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the Doorkeeper of the House be requested to
                    contract for and deliver to each member and each elective officer of the House,
                    one copy each of the Daily Sentinel, JOURNAL, Telegraph, News and
                      Commercial, six copies each of the Weekly Sentinel,
                      JOURNAL
                    and Telegraph, ten copies of the Weekly
                      Volksblatt, and two copies each of the Weekly Mirror
                    and People, all of said weeklies to be wrapped and
                    stamped.
                  That each member of the House be authorized to draw from the State Librarian
                    twenty dollars worth of stationery and stamps. That the Chairman of each
                    standing committee be authorized to draw from the Librarian five dollars worth
                    of stationery for his committee; that the Chief Clerk of this House be
                    authorized to draw from the State Librarian such stationery in kind as may be
                    neccessary for the proper discharge of the duties of the office, and in amount
                    not exceeding the sum of fifty dollars. That the Assistant Clerk of the House be
                    author-  BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.29ized
                    to draw from the State Librarian such stationery in kind as may be necessary in
                    the proper discharge of the duties of his office, and in an amount not exceeding
                    one hundred dollars. And that the Doorkeeper of the House be authorized and
                    allowed to draw from the State Librarian such stationery as may be necessary in
                    the proper discharge of the duties of his office, and in a sum not exceeding the
                    sum of $10 in value, provided, that all of such stationery shall be purchased at
                    the lowest wholesale prices.
                
              
            
            Mr. MILES desired to strike out the provision for stationery.
            Mr. GORDON objected to the allowance of six copies of the same newspaper. It was more
              than we needed, and the expense should not be incurred.
            Mr. McDONALD said the committee had endeavored to save money by this proposition,
              cutting down the allowance for stamps. They had selected more largely from the
              weeklies, because they will contain a week's proceedings instead of the proceedings of
              a day, as in the dailies.
            Mr. COPNER was in favor of keeping the people thoroughly posted here. The report asks
              for nothing but what is necessary.
            Mr. ABBOTT was distinctly opposed to the resolution. His people were a reading
              people. He could not supply them all; and was not in favor of sending papers to a
              select few. He would take but the Journal and the Sentinel, and but one copy of each, for the special benefit of members.
            Mr. HAYNES, We expect to make here a record that we will not be ashamed of, and we
              want our people te read it.
            Mr. BROWNING was in favor of the resolultion as it stands. The dailies were of less
              value in his part of the country, where they have but weekly mails. The committee had
              acted wisely in lopping off the dailies.
            Mr. FURNAS proposed to amend by striking out, with reference to newspapers, all but
              the JOURNAL and Sentinel.
            Mr. HAYNES moved to lay the amendment on the table.
            Mr. NEFF supported the resolution as reported. Ha was convinced two years ago of the
              superior advantage of the weekly papers. The people have a right to be informed of our
              proceedings here, that they may be heard by petition on this floor as to important
              questions pending.
            Mr. HAYNES' motion to lay Mr. Furnas' amendment on the table prevailed by yeas 71,
              nays 29, and the question recurred on the resolution.
            Mr. MILES moved to amend by striking out "$20" for stamps, and inserting "five' in
              lieu. It was laid on the table--years 80, nays 18, and the question again recurred on
              the adoption of the resolution.
            Mr. McDONALD demanded the previous question, and there was a second.
            And then the main question, viz.: the adoption of the resolution, was agreed to
              without a division.
            Mr. ZENOR moved to reconsider this vote,and to lay the motion to reconsider on the
              table, and the latter motion was agreed to.
          
          
            THIRD JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
            Mr. CAUTHORN, from the special committee to whom was referred his bill [H. R. 3]
              fixing the time of holding Circuit Courts in the several counties of the Third
              Judicial Circuit, reported it back, with an amendment--giving three weeks to Gibson
              county.
          
          
            ROOM FOR THE CLERKS.
            Mr. TEBBS offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the Doorkeeper to
              provide a room, furnished with the necessary tables, desks, etc., for the use of the
              Engrossing, Enrolling and Journal Clerks of the House.
            Mr. MYERS introduced a bill [H. R. 6] for an act to provide for the assessment and
              collection of taxes for municipal purposes on the shares of stock owned in banks doing
              business in this State, which was read and two hundred copies ordered printed.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, introduced a bill [H. R. 7] for an act prescribing certain
              duties for Sheriffs, Clerks, Auditors and Treasurers of the several counties of the
              State, fixing compensations, prescribing penalties, and repealing, etc., which was
              read.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, desired that the bill be printed, but the motion was
              rejected.
            Mr. WILSON, from the committee to wait on the Governor, reported the performance of
              that duty, and His Excellency's appointment to deliver his biennial message this
              afternoon at 2 1/2 o'clock.
            The order yesterday to print Mr. Stephenson's fee bill [H. R. 1,] was now
              reconsidered and rescinded, and that bill with Mr. Martin's above, were referred to
              the Committee on Fees and Salaries.
            Mr. CALKINS introduced a bill [H. R. 8,] for an act to amend sections 1, 3, 6, 7 to
              14 and 17 of the act of May 1869, to authorize drainage, etc.; which was read.
          
          
            CONVENTION TO HEAR THE GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, submitted an order which was adopted by consent, for a joint
              convention of the two Houses at 2 1/2 o'clock this afternoon, to hear the Message of
              His Excellency the Governor, and to invite Senators to attend.
          
          
            THE DOG LAW.
            Mr. BROWNING introduced a bill [H. R. 9] for an act to amend an act to repeal an act
              entitled an act to discourage the keeping of useless and sheep-killing dogs, and
              provide penalties for a violation of any of the provisions of said act by officers and
              others; and also repealing an act to license dogs, approved March 1, 1861, and
              providing that nothing in this act shall be so construed as to conflict with the
              provisions of an act entitled an act for the protection of sheep, approved June 15,
              1852, which was read.
            On the motion of Mr. BEELER, it was referred to the Committee on
                Agriculture.
            Mr. TEBBS introduced a bill [H. R 10] for an act fixing the beginning of the term of
              the Common Pleas Court in Dearborn county in the Fifth Judicial District.
            Mr. ST. JOHN introduced a bill [H. R. 11] to amend section 1 of the act to amend sec
                 tion 43 of the act for the settlement of
              Decedents' estates, approved July 17, 1852.
            The House then took a recess till 2 o'clock p.m.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER, resumed at 2 o'clock p. M., and announced the Standing
                Committee on Elections, namely: Messrs. McDonald, Caldwell, White,
              Barnaby, Canthorn, Cox and Sabin.
            On the motion of Mr. NEFF, it was
            Ordered, That all papers in relation to election contests before
              the House be referred immediately to the Committee on
              Elections.
            
              FIFTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
              The SPEAKER announced the special committee to consider Mr. Tebbs' Court bill [H.
                R. 10.], namely: Messrs. Tebbs, Holland, Monroe, Deputy, Simpson.
            
            
              IN JOINT CONVENTION--GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
              At 2 1/2 o'clock P. M., the Senators of the State, the members and officers of that
                branch of the General Assembly, were received in the Hall and seated on the right
                the Lieutenant Governor presiding on the right of the Speaker of the House of
                Representatives.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Gentlemen of the Senate and House of
                  Representatives: We have met in Convention in compliance with a resolution of
                both Houses, to hear the biennial message of the Governor. I am informed that a
                Committee appointed for the purpose have waited on a Minister the Rev. Dr.
                Andreus--and obtained his consent to attend here and open these proceedings with
                prayer. The Convention will please to rise for that service.
              The Rev. Dr. Andrus prays.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The hour having arrived in which the Governor will deliver
                his message, and it being now the pleasure of the body, the convention will hear the
                Governor.
              His Excellency, THE GOVERNOR, attended by the joint special committee, was now
                conducted to the dais of the Speaker's table, where he read his biennial message to
                the General Assemply, as follows:
            
            
              
                Governor's Message
              
              Gentlemen of the Senate and House of Representatives:
              Since the last adjournment of the General Assembly the Divine Providence has
                continued to smile upon the State, and the year that has just closed, has been
                crowned with many blessings to her people.
            

            
              STATE DEBT.
              It affords me great pleasure in again welcoming the Representatives of the people
                to these Halls of Legislation, to greet you at the outset with the assurance that
                the financial condition of the State, so far at least as the liquidation of our
                foreign indebtedness is concerned, is most satisfactory. Practically all the foreign
                debt of the State, except $178,000 of the war loan bonds issued under the
                Legislation of 1861 has been redeemed. So early a consummation of such a result was
                not anticipated two years ago, even by the most sanguine. It was then believed that
                the collection and application of the revenue for the year 1870, would be necessary
                to complete the redemption of the 2 1/2 and 5 per cent. certificates of State stock
                outstanding and consequently that a portion of these stocks would have to continue
                to bear interest until the summer or fall of 1871. The result achieved is due to,
                the fact that in June last I received from the Treasury Department of the United
                States, on account of the 11th installment of Indiana war claims against the United
                States, a draft or warrant on the Assistant Treasurer of the United States, at New
                York, payable to my order in my official capacity, for the sum of four hundred and
                sixty-four thousand nine hundred and twenty-three dollars and twenty-four cents
                ($464,923 24) which draft or warrant I immediately indorsed so as to make it payable
                to the Board of State Debt Sinking Fund Commissioners of the State of Indiana, upon
                the joint indorsemen of Nathan Kimball, Treasurer of State, and Thomas C. Slaughter,
                Agent of State, and transmitted the warrant thus indorsed by the hands of the
                Treasurer of State to th Agent of State, with the request that the proceeds of the
                draft should be applied in redeeming first, such of the war loan bonds of the State
                as might be presented, and, secondly, to the redemption of the 2 1/2 and 5 per cent.
                certificates of stock still outstanding. The proceeds of the draft were applied
                accordingly, and hence the favorable condition of our foreign indebtedness before
                mentioned.
              Auditor of State in his report shows that at the end of the fiscal year, on the
                31st day of October last, the foreign indebtedness of the State amounted to--
              
                
                  
                  $ 433,240 12
                
                
                  And the domestic indebtedness to............
                  3,734,247 82
                
                
                  Making a total of............................
                  $4,167,487 94
                
              
              Of the $433,240 12 of foreign indebtedness thus reported, the sum of $254,240 12
                consisted of 5 and 2 1/2 per cent. certificates of State Stocks then unredeemed, as
                follows:
              
                
                  Five per cents................................
                  $249,219 99
                
                
                  Two and one-half per cents....................
                  5,020 13
                
                
                  Total..........................................
                  $254,240 12
                
              
              On the first day of July, 1870, the Board of Commissioners of the State Debt
                Sinking Fund notified the holders of the 5 per cent. certificates of stock to
                present them at the Agency in New York for payment on or before the 1st day of
                September, 1870, and that in default of such presentment the State would cease to
                pay interest thereon after said last mentioned date. The interest on the 2 1/2 per
                cents. had been stopped long before by the Board because of their non-presentment
                for payment under a like notice. As the money is, and has been, in the Treasury of
                the Agency at New York for the redemption of all these five and two and one-half per
                cent. stocks still unredeemed, and, as the State has done all that can be reasonably
                required to procure their surrender, they 
                should be treated and considered as practically paid, and to that end I recommend
                that the General Assembly ratify, if such ratification shall be thought necessary,
                the action of the Board of State Debt Sinking Fund Commissioners in stopping the
                interest on these 5 and 2 1/2 per cent. certificates.
              Since the end of the fiscal year, and up to January 5th, 1871, the following State
                stocks have been redeemed, viz:
              
                
                  Of the 5 per cent certificates $106,919 99 reducing the amount still
                    unsurrendered to......................................................
                  $ 142,300 00
                
                
                  Of the 2 1/2 per cents. $1,288 13 reducing the amount still unsurrendered
                    to......................................................
                  3,732 00
                
                
                  Of the war loan bonds $1,000 reducing the amount of these bonds still
                    outstanding to the sum of...................
                  178,000 00
                
                
                  The principal of the war loan bonds will not be due for many years, and
                    therefore the State can neither compel their surrender nor stop the interest
                    thereon. Treating the 5 and 2 1/2 per cents. as practically paid for the reasons
                    already assigned, it follows that the entire recognized foreign debt of the
                    State consists of war loan bonds to the amount
                    of.........................
                  178,000 00
                
                
                  The domestic debt of the State has heen increased since the end of the
                    fiscal year, October 31st. 1870, by the redemption of State indebtedness with
                    moneys belonging to the Sinking Fund from $3,734,267 82
                    to.........................................
                  3,792,601 15
                
              
              It follows, therefore, that the debt of the State, foreign and domestic, on the 5th
                day of January, 1871, may be stated thus, viz:
            
            
              FOBEIGN DEBT.
              
                
                  War loan bonds........................................
                  $178.000 00
                
              
            
            
              DOMESTIC DEBT.
              
                
                  Non-negotiable bonds given to the School
                    Fund.......................................................
                  $3,551,316 15
                
                
                  Sinking Fund monies applied to redemption of State debt for which no
                    non-negotiable bond has yet been given to School
                    Fund.......................................................
                  177,700 00
                
                
                  Vincennes University bonds.............................
                  63 585 00
                
                
                  Total domestic debt....................................
                  3,792,601 15
                
                
                  Entire debt, foreign and domestic, en the 5th day of January,
                    1871.......................................................
                  3,970,601 15
                
              
            
            
              STATE AGENCY AND BOARD OF STATE DEBT SINKING FUND
                COMMISSIONEES.
              The act approved December 31st, 1865, commonly called the State Debt bill, provides
                for the abolition of the office of Agent of State as soon as all the five and two
                and one-half per cent. certificates of State stock shall be redeemed and
                cancelled.
              The probability is that some of these certificates have been destroyed, and will,
                therefore, never be presented; if so, the agency under this legislation would be
                perpetual.
              There is no longer any necessity for the State Agency, or for the Board of State
                Debt Sinking Fund Commissioners, and I therefore recommend that both be immediately
                dispensed with. There will be no injustice or impropriety in requiring the holders
                of the few remaining certificates to receive their money at the Treasury.
              By reason of the application of the money received from the United States to the
                redemption of our foreign debt, as before stated, the ten per cent State Debt
                Sinking Fund tax for 1870, will not be required when collected for the purpose for
                which it was levied. It will amount to over $600,000, and as the law now stands
                would go into the hands of the Board of State Debt Sinking Fund Commissioners.
                Provision should be made for constituting the proceeds of this tax a part of the
                General Treasury of the State, to be appropriated as the General Assembly may
                direct.
            
            
              OLD INTERNAL IMPROVEMENT BONDS.
              In the foregoing statement of the indebtedness of the State, I have not included as
                a part thereof one hundred and ninety-one (191) old Indiana Bonds issued for
                Internal Improvement purposes prior to the year 1841, and upon which no interest has
                been paid by the State since said last mentioned year except as hereinafter stated.
                All of these 191 bonds are believed to be what are technically known as Internal
                Improvement Bonds--that is, bonds issued under the General Internal Improvement Act
                of January 27th, 1836, except sixty-nine of them. These sixty-nine bonds last
                mentioned are Wabash and Erie Canal bonds held by the United States as an investment
                for certain Indian tribes, and the interest thereon was in November,1868, settled up
                to the first day of July,of that year by the government withholding and applying to
                that purpose so much of the audited and allowed war claims of the State as was
                necessary to pay such interest, as fully explained in my regular message delivered
                at the opening of the last General Assembly and to which you are respectfully
                referred.
              A part of the 191 Bonds before alluded to are dollar bonds and a part sterling
                bonds, but the precise number of each kind I have been unable to ascertain. The
                dollar bonds are for $1,000 each, payable in New York City, and the sterling bonds
                are for two hundred and twenty-five pounds sterling each, payable in London. These
                bonds may be safely estimated at $191,000, exclusive of interest and exchange. John
                W. Garrett, Esq., of Baltimore, is represented to be the owner of 41 of the 191
                bonds; ten of the 41 being sterling bonds and the residue being dollar bonds. Mr.
                Garrett, soon after the adjournment of the last Special Session of the General
                Assembly, as the holder of these 41 bands, commenced an action in the Circuit Court
                of Carroll county, in this State, against the Board of Trustees of the Wabash and
                Erie Canal for the purpose of enforcing against said Canal and its revenues in the
                hands of said Board of Trustees, a lien on the Canal which he insists was created to
                secure the payment of said bonds by the provisions of the General Internal
                Improvement Act before mentioned.
              The suit is brought not only for the benefit of the plaintiff, but for the benefit
                of all other persons standing in the same relation and holding similar bonds. Soon
                after I was informed of the pendency of this action, I procured a transcript of the
                record thereof with a view to considering what steps, if any,  were necessary to be taken to protect the interests of
                the State in relation to matters connected with the litigation.
              Upon an examination of the General Internal Improvement Act of January 27, 1836,
                and the case of the Trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal vs. Beers, decided by the
                Supreme Court of the United States in 1862, and reported in 2d Black's Reports, page
                448, I became satisfied that the bonds issued by authority of said act were, by the
                9th section thereof, charged as a lien upon all the public works of the State,
                including the Wabash and Erie Canal, or at least that part of it which is situated
                below or south of the mouth of the Tippecanoe river. In this view of the subject, it
                became my duty to the State to prevent, if possible, the rendition of any decree
                under which the Board of Trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal could be divested of
                the control of the Canal or its revenues until after the meeting of the General
                Assembly, so that provision might be made to protect the trust and the interests of
                the State in any and every possible contingency that might arise. Accordingly I
                employed counsel, and attended the court in person, accompanied by such counsel, and
                co-operating with Hon. D. D. Pratt, who acted as the attorney of the canal Trustees,
                a defect of parties defendant was pleaded, in omitting to join the present owners of
                the other public works embraced in the lien. This course rendered it necessary that
                the plaintiff should continue the cause to bring the additional parties before the
                court, and it was continued to the February term, 1871, of said court. The White
                Water Valley Canal, twenty-seven miles of the south end of the Madison and
                Indianapolis railroad, the New Albany and Vincennes Turnpike Road, and that part of
                the northern division of the Central Canal which is situated in Marion county, are
                all included in the lien, and all of them, except the White Water Valley Canal
                having been aliened by the State before the State conveyed the Wabash and Erie Canal
                to the Trustees under the Butler Bill, it follows that they would have to be applied
                to the satisfaction of the lien before the Wabash and Erie Canal could be subjected
                to the payment of any portion of said lien.
              The White Water Valley Canal was aliened before the Wabash and Erie Canal was
                transferred to the Trustees, and consequently said last named canal would be liable
                in equity to be subjected to the satisfaction of the common lien before the White
                Water Valley Canal could be reached. I suppose it is certain that the other works
                liable to be subjected to the satisfaction of the lien before the Wabash and Erie
                Canal could be reached would not satisfy the entire lien, and if they would that the
                State having sold these other works for a valuable consideration, ought to protect
                them from the enforcement of this lien against them. If these bonds are a lien on
                the Wabash and Erie Canal, as I believe them to be, the State cannot afford to
                permit the title of the Trustees to be divested or their possession and control of
                the canal and its revenues--to be interrupted by the judicial enforcement of said
                lien. To prevent this, provision should be made to pay out of the Treasury of the
                State such of said 197 bonds as may be adjudged to be a lien on the canal and its
                revenue whenever it may become necessary to make such payment in order to prevent
                the canal or its revenues from being subjected to the satisfaction of the lien.
                Indeed, independently of the lien altogether, I do not see how the State can
                honorably refuse to redeem these few outstanding Internal Improvement Bonds. They
                were issued by the State, and the faith of the State was pledged for their
                redemption, and this pledge cannot be disregarded or set aside without the consent
                of both parties to the contract if the State has the ability to redeem the pledge,
                of which there can be no doubt. If the holders of the bonds had surrendered them
                under the Butler Bill, as other holders surrendered theirs, and agreed to look
                exclusively to the revenues of the Canal for one-half of their debt, this would have
                been a new contract, and the State could not be justly complained of for insisting
                on its execution. But the holders of the bonds now under consideration have
                continuously refused to surrender them under the adjustment proposed by the Butler
                Bill, and the State cannot compel them to do so, nor can she refuse to pay them
                without repudiating her plighted faith.
              If the State should stand by and permit the Canal or its revenues to be wrested
                from the hands of the Canal Trustees, to satisfy a paramount lien created by the
                State itself prior to the conveyance of the Canal to said Trustees, then indeed
                might the holders of the Canal stocks, with some show of reason, claim that the
                State should redeem the many millions of dollars of Canal stocks which, under the
                existing arrangement, are exclusively charged upon the Canal, and for which the
                State is in no way bound. I hope that you will promptly adopt, such measures as will
                forever prevent the possibility of the trust being disturbed or impaired by the
                enforcement of this lien. It is both right and expedient that the State should thus
                protect the trust property; and I also recommend that the State relieve the Board of
                Canal Trustees from all the expenses of litigation to which they have been or may be
                subjected in defending the Trust property from the attempt made to subject it to the
                satisfaction of said lien.
              I herewith respectfully submit the professional opinion of Messrs. Hendricks, Hord
                & Hendricks, the attorneys employed as aforesaid, touching the questions
                involved in and connected with said litigation, with my letter to them, containing
                the questions to which said opinion is a response.
            
            
              CANAL DEBT.
              In this connection I desire again to call attention to a renewal of the effort
                which is about to be made by the holders of the Wabash & Erie Canal stock to
                induce the General Assembly to charge the payment thereof on the Treasury of
                State.
              In 1857, in anticipation of an attempt  which
                it was rumored would then be made for the accomplishment of the same object, the
                General Assembly passed a joint resolution, approved February 19, 1857, declaring
                that the Legislature has no power under the Constitution to purchase the Wabash
                & Erie Canal, and that if the power existed, it would be unwise, impolitic and
                injurious to the best interests of the people of the State to purchase said Canal.
                This resolution, though not very aptly worded, was intended to anticipate and
                condemn an expected effort to have the Canal debt charged by Legislative action on
                the State Treasury.
              Early in the month of March, 1857, a few days before the adjournment of the General
                Assembly, the holders of the Canal stocks transmitted a memorial through the
                Governor to the General Assembly, in which they attempted to show that the State by
                her two acts had rendered herself liable for the payment of said stocks. This
                memorial had been, however, before its reception, anticipated and responded to by
                the passage of the joint resolution before mentioned, and that response still
                remains on the statute book as the unrepealed expression of the Legislative will on
                the subject to which it relates. The holders of the Canal stocks or their agents,
                have recently caused a new edition of this same memorial to be printed in pamphlet
                form, copies of which, with other publications having the same object in view, have
                been transmitted by mail to all the members of the present General Assembly, as I am
                informed, and to the Executive officers of the State, including myself.
              This memorial and the accompanying publications entirely concur in the object
                sought to be attained; but, not only disagree but contradict each other as to the
                basis on which the rights of the memorialists and the liabilities of the State are
                predicated.
              The memorial in several places, either in terms or by the clearest implication,
                concedes that by the adjustment of 1847, one-half of the former debt of the State
                ceased to be a State debt, and became a canal debt, chargeable exclusively upon the
                Wabash and Erie canal, its lands and revenues; but insists that, after the making of
                the arrangement, and by the violation thereof, the State revived her own liability
                by authorizing the building of railroads which carried freight and passengers that
                would have been carried in the absence of such railroads, by the canal, thereby
                impairing the revenues of the canal to such an extent as to render it practically
                worthless as a security.
              The publications which accompany the memorial deny the concessions made by the
                memorial, and assert that by the adjustment the State never was released from her
                liability to pay half of the former debt of the State which was charged upon the
                canal. I propose to notice both of these theories, and in doing so I shall for
                convenience sake submit what I have to say in support of the two following
                propositions, viz:
              
                . That by the terms of the acts of January 19, 1846, and January 27,
                  1847, commonly called the"Butler Bill," and the nature of the negotiations which
                  resulted in their adoption, and especially the amendments suggested by the
                  principal bondholders to the first act, and adopted in the second, the character
                  of the bonds surrendered and the certificates of canal stock issued and received
                  in lieu thereof; and, by the cotemporaneous and subsequent construction put upon
                  the adjustment by both parties thereto, it is clear that the canal stock which the
                  State is now asked to charge upon her Treasury were to be, and were, charged
                  exclusively upon the Wabash and Erie Canal, its lands and revenues, and that the
                  State was not to qe, and was not, bound to pay any portion of these stocks,
                  although she reserved the right to redeem the canal at her option after the
                  expiration of twenty years from the date of its transfer to the Trustees, by
                  paying the principal sum charged upon it to the holders of the certificates of the
                  stock thus charged.
                . That the State has not, since the adjustment of 1847, by the
                  incorporation of railroad companies, and authorizing them to construct railroads
                  within the State, or by any other act of hers, according to any recognized rule of
                  law, or any established principle of equity jurisprudence, created a liability on
                  her part to pay said canal stocks, or any part thereof. In other words, had the
                  same transactions occurred between two natural persons over whose rights and
                  liabilities the Courts could have exercised the fullest jurisdiction, the claims
                  now urged against the State could not have been enforced as between these natural
                  persons by an action at law, or a suit in equity.
              
              Before presenting any argument in support of said first proposition, it may be well
                to premise that prior to the adjustment of the State Debt under the Butler Bill,
                Indiana was hopelessly embarrassed, her indebteness then being largely above and
                beyond her ability, present or prospective, to pay. At the same time, the State
                owned the Wabash and Erie Canal, in an unfinished condition, with 800,000 acres of
                land lying within the State, which Congress had donated to the State to enable her
                to complete said canal. Under these circumstances it was not a matter of choice, but
                of absolute necessity that, to enable the State to resume the payment of interest on
                her indebtedness--which had been suspended in 1841--her Treasury must be relieved in
                some way from the payment of some part of the debt which was then a charge upon
                it.
              The creditors of the State, or a large number of them, conceding the existence of
                this state of affairs, deputed Charles Butler, Esq., of New York, to visit the State
                Capitol during the session of the Legislature and confer with the State Government
                as to the adjustment of the debt. This brings me to a consideration of the evidence
                contained in the negotiations which resulted in the passage of the Butler Bill,
                going to show that from the very inception of these negotiations, and, indeed,
                before their inception, the idea was held out to the people of the State, that her
                creditors were willing to charge the  canal and
                its lands and revenues with, and discharge the State from some portion of the
                debt.
              The first allusion to such an adjustment to be found in our public records is
                contained in the annual message of Governor Whitcomb, delivered to the General
                Assembly of the State, December 2, 1845, from which I quote the following extract,
                premising that the person alluded to in the extract is Mr. Butler. It reads as
                follows, viz:
              "It was said, in a quarter entitled to respect and confidence, at a meeting held at
                Terre Haute, in May last, that, if the State were to pay her bondholders, by a State
                tax or otherwise, a portion of her public debt, it was thought they would be
                prepared to take the profits of the canal for the balance. The gentleman who
                expressed this opinion is now in attendance as the representative of our foreign
                bondholders, and has verbally advised me that he will shortly prepare a
                communication offering a liberal arrangement to be laid before the General
                Assembly."
              From this it will be seen that Mr. Butler, months before he reached Indianapolis,
                had made the impression upon the minds of the people, and the Governor of the State,
                that the bondholders would take the profits of the canal for a part of
                  the debt.
              Under the date of December 10th, 1845, Mr. Butler addressed a lengthy communication
                through the Governor to the General Assembly on the subject of the State's
                indebtedness, and the wish of the creditors for an early adjustment. This
                communicaton was referred to a joint committee of both Houses, of which Mr. Secrest,
                of the House, was a member, and of which Mr. Lane, of the Senate, was chairman.
              Mr. Secrest, in the report submitted by him from the joint committee to the House
                of Representatives, said that "the general statements contained in Mr. Butler's
                above mentioned communication to the Governor were not sufficiently definite for the
                committee to rest upon as a basis of any action."
              In reply to a resolution of the joint committee informing Mr. Butler of the
                organization of the committee, and its readiness to receive any written proposition
                from him in relation to an arrangement of the State debt, he communicated his first
                written proposition to the committee, of the date of December 19, 1845. On the 25th
                of December the committee informed Mr. Butler, by resolution, of its inability to
                accede to the proposition so submitted by him.
              On the 26th day of December, 1845, Mr. Butler made his second proposition, which
                was accepted, and incorporated into the act of January 19, 1846.
              Although Mr. Butler did, in that proposition, use language upon which the holders
                of the Canal stocks now place so much stress, to the effect that be did not feel
                himself at liberty to make any proposals or consent to any arrangement which should
                embrace less than the eventual payment of the just claims of the bondholders for the
                entire amount of the principal and interest on the bonds in their possession; yet it
                is manifest that Mr. Butler, in using this language, considered that a payment of a
                part of the debt by taxation, and a charging of the residue exclusively on the lands
                and revenues of the Canal, would embrace the eventual payment of the whole, and that
                he was willing to take the risk of the Canal's paying its part of the debt.
                Conclusive evidence of this is found in the second paragraph of the proposition. The
                first paragraph of the proposition having provided for the payment of the interest
                of one half of the debt from the revenues of the State, the second reads as follows,
                to-wit:
              "2. The remaining two and a half per cent. on the principal of the bonds, computing
                from first January, 1841, shall be chargeable against and paid out of the revenues
                of the Canal, and shall not be otherwise chargeable against the
                  State"
              Mr. Butler adds in a subsequent sentence: "As such reliance is proposed to be
                placed on the Wabash and Erie Canal by the bondholders for the payment of one half
                of the back and accruing interest, it is proper to say that its completion is deemed
                essential to the plan of liquidation contemplated." &c.
              I now call your attention to the interpretation placed on the adjustment by Mr.
                Secrist in the report which he submitted and in which he urged the adoption of the
                bill, which subsequently passed. The following language is used in the report,
                viz:
              "This proposition is substantially to release the general revenues of the State and
                her public faith from one-half of the entire funded debt, and make the same a charge
                against the Erie, Wabash and Ohio Canal in Indiana. In effect, it is the same as
                taking one-half of the public debt from the shoulders of our tax payers and placing
                it upon this canal- a work from which the State has not as yet realized any income
                whatever; though it is to be hoped that under judicious management it may be made to
                yield a handsome revenue. In addition to this, the bondholders are willing to take
                the canal and its lands (not absolutely, but in trust), and finish the work through
                to the Ohio river, advancing one-third or more of the cost of completion in cash and
                using the lands for the balance so far as practicable, and taking their recourse for
                this advance, not against the State, but only against the lands and revenues of the
                canal; thus advancing money to the canal on the security of the Congress grants of
                land without imposing any further debt upon the State, but on the contrary, in
                effect leaving our debt less by one half than it now is."
              The provisions of the bill accompanying this report show that Mr. Secrest did not
                misunderstand or misinterpret it. The bill shows in divers sections by affirmative
                as well as by negative expressions that the Canal was charged exclusively with the
                payment of one-half the interest of the entire debt, and that the State and her
                plighted faith were discharged from the same.
              By the 32d section of the act of January 19, 
                1846, the State reserved the right to also charge exclusively upon the revenues of
                the canal one-half of the principal of the entire debt. This was to be done by
                calling in and requiring to be surrendered the stocks which might be issued under
                the first section of the act, and giving to the holders in lieu of them new
                certificates for one-half of the principal thereof, to bear interest at and after
                the rate of five per cent. per annum, the principal and interest to be charged on
                the revenues of the State; and, also, by giving to each such holder another
                certificate for the other half of the principal of such stock to bear a like
                interest of five per cent., "and to be paid and redeemed, and only paid
                  and redeemed out of said canal lands, and the tolls and revenues of said
                  canal; and from and after the time that the State shall call in
                  said stock issued under the first section of this act, and shall issue new
                  certificates, as aforesaid, the State, its faith and revenues shall be only
                  pledged and responsible for the payment of one-half of the principal and
                interest at five per centum per annum thereon; and for the other half of said
                principal and interest the holders of said certificates shall look
                  solely and exclusively to said canal lands and the tolls and revenues of said
                  canal."
              The said act of January 19,1846, was submitted to a committee of European
                bondholders by Mr. Butler, and that committee at a meeting held in London, May 30,
                1846, formally resolved "to concur in the principles laid down in the act of the
                Legislature passed at Indianapolis, on the 19th of January, for the adjustment of
                the debt of that State (Indiana) by the payment of one moiety of the principal and
                interest by taxation, and the other moiety by the property and tolls of the canal
                from the State line adjoining Ohio to Evansville on the Ohio river; such property to
                be assigned to three trustees, and the State to be freed from responsibility on that
                portion of the debt and interest so to be secured."
              This resolution was communicated to Governor Whitcomb, who, in his Message,
                delivered December 2,1846, submitted it to the Legislature and construed it to mean
                that the State was to be freed from all responsibility on that portion of the debt
                and interest, which was to be charged on the Canal.
              The supplemental act of January 26,1847, is chiefly the work of the London
                  Committee, and the very first section in the exercise of the option
                reserved to the State by the thirty second section of the original act, declares
                that one-half the principal of the debt shall be charged upon the Treasury of the
                State, and the other half upon the Canal lands and tolls and revenues of the Canal,
                as provided in the thirty-second section of the original act, and that upon the
                surrender of the State bonds then outstanding two certificates shall issue to each
                holder, each for one-half of the principal, one chargeable on the Treasury of the
                State and the other on the Canal, its lands and revenues.
              The following extract from the message of Governor Whitcomb,delivered to the
                General assembly on the 11th day of January, 1848, not only shows the same
                construction of the arrangement, but, in a few brief sentences, explains the
                difference between the original and supplemental bill. The extract is in these
                words, viz:
              "But while the original bill gave the State the option of afterwards throwing
                one-half of the principal also upon the Canal for payment, by the supplementary bill
                (and consequently by the law as it now stands,) that object is at once effected by
                one-half of the surrendered debt, both principal and interest, resting exclusively
                upon the Canal for payment, the State being released from all further responsibility
                in relation to it. The great and leading principle, therefore, of the first bill,
                namely, the satisfying of one-half of the surrendered debt from the Canal remains
                unchanged, nor does the supplementary bill involve the State any further in debt.
                The main difference between the bills consists in the latter giving to the
                bondholders, who should finish the Canal, a priority in the payment of their claims
                and expenses of its construction out of the tolls and profits, over those who would
                not join in its construction.
              The character of the bonds surrendered and the stocks received in lieu thereof,
                prove the same theory. The bonds surrendered pledged the faith of the State for
                their payment, and mortgaged the public works to secure the performance of that
                plege. The Canal stocks received in lieu of one-half of the principal of these bonds
                so surrendered contain no promise on the part of the State to pay the amount named
                in the certificates of stock, no pledge of the faith of the State for that purpose,
                no lien on any of the public works of the State, except the Canal, but the whole
                obligation is expressed in these words: "that the Wabash & Erie Canal, and all
                tolls, lands and effects appertaining thereto, from the State line to Evansville,
                etc., are irrevocably pledged in virtue of said acts, etc., to A. B., etc., and his
                assigns, for the sum of $1,000," etc.
              It is a well-established principle of law, independently of statutory enactments,
                that where a mortgage contains no covenant or promise to pay the mortgage money, and
                there is no such covenant or promise in any other paper, the mortgagor, although he
                may redeem the mortgaged premises, is not personally bound, and the mortagee must
                look exclusively to the mortgaged property for satisfaction.
              The last reference I shall make in proof of the first proposition is to an opinion
                of the Supreme Court of the United States in the case mentioned in a former part of
                this communication, viz.: The Trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal against Beers;
                2nd Black, 451.
              In that case the court,in incidentally construing this very Butler Bill, speaking
                of the surrender under it by one of the parties to the suit of certain bonds of the
                State, uses this language: "The holders of the latter bonds believed that with the
                $200,000 lien prior to theirs, they would improve their condition by taking the
                State for one half  the debt, and the canal
                stock certificates for the other.
              The second proposition is that the State has not, since the adjustment of 1847, by
                the incorporation of railroad companies, or by any other act of hers, according to
                any recognized rule of law, or any established principle of equity jurisprudence,
                created a liability on her part to pay any portion of-the debt charged upon the
                canal. It is a principle of public law which this State has no disposition to
                gainsay or evade that, a sovereignty which cannot be sued is bound in the
                performance of her contracts to do, and omit everything which individual persons,
                under similar circumstances, could be compelled by action at law or suit in equity
                to do, or to refrain from doing. We insist, however, that the good faith and honor
                of the State do not demand anything beyond the requirements of this rule; and that
                Indiana, in the matter complained of, has done nothing which a natural person could
                have been compelled to omit, and has omitted nothing which such a person could have
                been compelled by judicial proceedings, under similar circumstances, to do.
              The memorial of the holders of the Canal stocks bases their claim exclusively upon
                the assumption that Indiana has wrongfully, and in violation of her covenants
                contained in the Butler bill, authorized the construction of a system of railroads
                which, coming in competition with the Wabash and Erie Canal, has so impaired its
                revenues as to destroy its value as a security. That railroads have been built in
                this State by incorporated companies, organized or assuming to act under State laws
                passed since the transfer of the Canal to the Trustees, can not be denied, and it
                must be admitted that one of these roads does not come in direct competition to the
                Canal, and has largely contributed to the reduction of its revenues. With this
                admission, however, we insist that there is no stipulation in the Butler bill or
                elsewhere restraining the State from developing her resources by the construction of
                railroads, either by direct State action, or by authorizing their construction by
                incorporated companies. Covenants or stipulations must be construed in reference to
                the main scope and body of the instrument in which they are contained, and can not
                by wresting them from the context, be made to apply to matters not contemplated by
                the parties, and which would not have been agreed to if they had been suggested
                prior to the closing of the compact. The memoralists, to make out a breach of
                covenant on the part of the State, rely upon the stipulations contained in the
                fourteenth section of the Supplemental Act of January 27, 1847, but omit the
                recitals which give significance to the language employed; and to sustain their
                construction they enlarge the scope of the stipulations therein contained, in a
                manner that no lawyer would pretend to do in constructing a contract between
                individuals. Covenants in restraint of any lawful business or trade are never
                implied, and when clearly expressed, are considered to be against public policy,and
                therefore strictly construed against him who seeks to enforce the restraint. Here is
                an arrangement made between the State and a portion of her creditors, not before the
                invention of railroads, but after their practical introduction in to this State,
                whereby, with the assent of the creditors, one-half of the debt of the State is
                charged on the revenues and treasury of the State, and the other half exclusively
                upon the Wabash and Erie Canal, its lands and revenues, without a word being said in
                the legisation, or in the negotiations which led to it, about the State being
                restrained in her right to make railroads, or to authorize others to build them
                within her limits; and yet it is insisted that the covenants made by the State, in
                relation to the things she did agree to do, or omit, are to be extended by
                construction or implication, so as to embrace a covenant to abdicate her sovereignty
                and refrain, forever, or so long as the arrangement should continue, from building,
                or permitting to be built, any of these great instruments of modern civilization and
                progress, which might compete with said Canal, or impair its revenues.
              Suppose Mr. Butler, in his negotiations with the Legislature, had made it a part of
                one of his propositions that the State should never build, or authorize the building
                of a railroad within her limits that should, to any extent, great or small, come in
                competition with the Wabash and Erie Canal, is it not certain that the proposition,
                so long as it contained such a feature would have been promptly rejected. The
                construction contended for is monstrous. Indiana never expressly or by implication,
                stipulated to stand in the way of her own development, or of the development of the
                nation by prohibiting railroads from being built within her borders that might come
                in competition with the Wabash and Erie Canal.
              If, however, for the sake of the argument, we admit the construction contended for
                by the memorialists, still there is another complete and perfect answer to the claim
                made by them. It is notorious that since the transfer of the Wabash and Erie Canal
                to the Trustees, the State has not made a single mile of railroad. It is equally
                true that no line of railroad has been constructed within the State by any organized
                company which can, in any just or proper sense, be said to come in competition with
                said canal, except the Wabash Valley Road. This road does run parallel with and near
                the canal from Fort Wayne, in Allen county, to Attica, in Fountain county, a
                distance of about one hundred and thirty miles. If it shall be said that the
                Evansville and Crawfordsville Railroad, extending from Evansville to Terre Haute, is
                also a competitor of the canal, the reply is, that the canal from Terre Haute to
                Evansville was a failure from the beginning, and never was in a condition to compete
                with a good wagon road between the two points above named. This reduces the grounds
                of complaint to the failure of the State to prevent the construction of the Wabash
                Valley Railroad.
              The Constitution of the State was amended  in
                1851 so as to prohibit the incorporation of railroad or other compaties by local or
                special legistion, but allowing their organization under general laws to be passed
                for that purpose. By reason of this, the General Assembly, in 1852 passed a general
                railroad law under which railroad companies might be organized. If there ever was
                any legislative authority for the building of the Wabash Valley Railroad, it was
                derived from this general law, for it is certain that no special charter was ever
                given for that purpose. It either was or it was not a part of the contract between
                the State and the holders of the canal stocks that the State should neither build or
                authorize the building of any railroad that might compete with the canal. If it was
                not a part of the contract that the State should be thus restrained, then the claim
                made by this memorial falls to the ground. If the contract did restrain the State as
                con tended for, then the question arises whether the general railroad law of 1852
                authorized the building of the Wabash Valley Railroad. It must be admitted that said
                law is general in its terms, and contains no express restriction on the subject of
                lines of railroans that might compete with the canal, and yet I insist that the
                general railroad law could not, and did not, authorize the building of my railroad
                the construction of which was interdicted by a valid subsisting contract made by the
                State. If the State by the arrangement of 1847, contracted that no such improvement
                as the Valley Railroad should be made, a subsequent authorization by the State of
                the making of the road would be an attempt to license by State law the impairing of
                the obligation of a contract, a thing which every State is, by the express terms of
                the Constitution of the United States, prohibited from doing.
              It is not to be presumed that the State intended to pass an
                unconstitutional act, and if the general railroad law is susceptible of two
                constructions, the one constitutional and the other unconstitutional, the former
                interpretation must be adopted and the latter rejected. Upon the theory, then, that
                the State was by her contract restrained from authorizing a railroad to be built
                that would compete with, the Wabash and Erie Canal, and thereby diminish its
                revenues, the general railroad law of 1852, although unrestricted in its terms, must
                be construed to apply only to such lines of road as it was competent for the State
                to authorize without impairing the obligation of any contract. Upon the assumption
                that the building of competing roads was prohibited by the contract; and upon the
                construction of the general railroad law of 1852, just suggested, it follows that
                the construction ofthe Wabash Valley Railroad was unauthorized by that act, and was
                therefore, an illegal act which the Trustees of the Canal--two of whom are selected
                by the holders of the Canal stocks--or the stockholders themselves could have
                restrained by injunction. The railroad, of the construction of which complaint is
                made, was built, not by the State, but by persons acting or assuming to act as a
                corporation under a pretended authority from the State, and these persons were
                amenable to civil process, and the Federal and State courts were open to the
                memorialists and could have afforded them a complete remedy, by injunction, for what
                they now say was an irreparable injury, done by authority of the State.
              Suppose the Wabash Valley Railroad Company, instead of constructing their road on
                the line which it now occupies, had located and commenced constructing it on the
                towing path or in the bed of the Wabash and Erie Canal, could the Canal Trustees and
                the holders of the Canal stocks have stood by and witnessed such an appropriation of
                the canal under the pretense that it was authorized by the State, and then make this
                tort of the Railroad Company the basis of a claim against the State?
              If the holders of the Canal stocks had vested rights in the Canal, as they insist
                in their memorial, then the State did not and could not authorize their destruction;
                and, with the courts open to them, it is marvelous that they stood by and witnessed
                this destruction without an effort to prevent it. Such conduct is only consistent
                with the theory that they themselves believed that the acts now complained of were
                not a violation of the State's covenants, but what the lawyers term damnum absque injuria, that is, a loss without an injury, a loss for which
                neither the State nor any other person is responsible.
              My apology for the length of this presentation is that the press of New York and
                London have been urged to give currency to the imputation that Indiana, in refusing
                to charge these Canal stocks upon her treasury, is guilty of repudiation, and it
                seemed proper that the public should be informed through some official channel, of
                the views entertained by our people, together with the grounds upon which they are
                based.
              Before dismissing the subject, I earnestly recommend the passage of a joint
                resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution so as to declare that no act
                of legislation shall ever take effect or become a law of this State whereby said
                Canal Stocks, or any part thereof, shall be recognized as a debt of the State or
                charged upon the treasury thereof by way of redeeming said Canal or otherwise, until
                such act of legislation shall have been submitted to and ratified by the qualified
                electors of this State at a special election to be held for that purpose in
                pursuance of law, a majority of the votes cast at such election to be necessary to
                effect the ratification.
            
            
              SINKING FUND.
              The report of the Auditor of State shows the condition of the Sinking Fund to be as
                follows:
              
                
                  Money on hand........................................
                  $550,916 80
                
                
                  Amount secured to the fund by notes and
                    mortgages................................................
                  206,041 25
                
                
                  Due from Stare for stocks redeemedwith the fund, for which no bond has been
                    issued to the School Fund by the
                    State.....................................................
                  135,366 66
                

                

                
                  Due from the State for advance to the Southern prison to repair the damages
                    done by fire...................................
                  12,000 00
                
                
                  Due from the State to complete Supreme Court room,
                    &c.....................................................
                  6,802 30
                
                
                  Total..................................................
                  $912,027 64
                
                
                  From which, deduct amoust in the fund belonging to owners of mortgaged
                    property sold, the sales being in excess of amounts
                    due........................................................
                  $ 4,114 10
                
                
                  Net balance of moneys and effects in the hands of the
                    Auditor....................................................
                  907,912 04
                
              
              I recommend that the amount due to the Fund for State stocks redeemed, be secured
                by a non-negotiable bond from the State to the School Fund; that the other small
                sums due from the State, be immediately refunded to the Sinking Fund by an
                appropriation for that purpose;and that the money son hand, and the uncollected
                securities,as fast as realized, be invested in the registered interest bearing bonds
                of the United States, so that the Fund may be made productive, and the income
                thereof distributed for common school purposes.
              The wisdom of making the Auditor,instead of the Treasurer of State, the treasurer
                of this particular fund, is not very apparent, and I hope the fund may be
                transferred to the Treasury and its prompt investment secured by proper
                enactments.
            
            
              WAR CLAIMS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT.
              When the condition of these claims was reported two years ago, the tenth instalment
                thereof, amounting to $125,721 80, had not been passed upon by ihe Treasury
                Department. On the 8th day of December, 1869, I received a draft or warrant from the
                Treasurer of the United States, payable to my order in my official capacity, for
                $41,412 15, allowed on this instalment, which I, on the same day, paid into the
                State Treasury, and received a quietus for that amount. The items constituting the
                residue of the instalment were either disallowed or suspended for further
                explanation or proof.
              In the latter part of April, 1870, I succeeded in having the papers and proofs
                prepared necessary for the presentation of an additional claim designated as the
                Twelfth Intalment, for moneys advanced for the purchase of horses in 1861, for the
                military service of the United States, and amounting as presented to $35,282 12.
              As the papers and forms of proof of this instalment had been prepared by General W.
                H. H. Terrell during his service as Adjutant General of this State, and as he
                understood and could explain the items constituting the claim better than any other
                person, I sent all the papers to him at Washington, and requested him to present and
                prosecute the claim in the Treasury Department, assuring him that the State would
                pay him a reasonable compensation for his services. The claim was accordingly
                presented by General Terrell, and on the 21st day of September, 1870, I received a
                draft from the Treasury of the United States for $23,256, payable to my order in my
                official capacity, and immediately paid the same into the State Treasury, and
                received a quietus for the amount.
              The items constituting the residue of this instalment were either disallowed, or
                suspended for further explanation and proof.
              The 11th instalment of our War Claims was for moneys expended by the State in
                equipping and subsisting State troops belonging to the Indiana Legion, while in
                actual service upon the call of the Governor, during the rebellion. Under the Act of
                Congress of March 29,1867, Hon. John Broadhead, Hon. R. Flint, and Col. W. R.
                Kinney, were appointed Commissioners to ascertain the amount expended by this State
                in enrolling, equipping, subsisting, transporting and paying such State forces as
                were called into service in this State after the first day of January, 1862, to act
                in concert with the United forces in suppressing the rebellion. Said Commissioners
                met at Indianapolis in March 1869, and did not complete their labors till the latter
                part of September or the beginning of October of the same year, at which time they
                made a Report awarding to the State $481,178 24, for moneys expended for the
                purposes contemplated by said Act of Congress. Of the amount thus awarded, the
                Treasury Department allowed the sum of $464,923 24, and in June 1870, I received
                from the Treasurer of the United States a draft for that amount which was
                immediately applied through the Board of the State Debt Sinking Fund Commissioners,
                to the redemption of the outstanding foreign indebtedness of the State as stated in
                a former part of this communication.
              The sums received from, the Government since the Report contained in the Message
                delivered at the opening of the General Assembly two years ago, amount in the
                aggregate to $529,690 39, as follows, viz:
              
                
                  On Tenth Instalment.....................
                  $41 412 15
                
                
                  On Eleventh Instalment..................
                  464 923 24
                
                
                  On Twelfth Instalment...................
                  23 255 00
                
                
                  Total...................................
                  $529, 690 39
                
              
              The 8th instalment, amounting, as presented, to $606,979 41, can not be heard or
                adjusted by the Treasury Department until there is additional legislation
                authorizing it. There is a bill pending in the Senate of the United States which, if
                it shall become the law, will provide for the auditing of the claim. This claim is
                chiefly for interest paid by the State on her war loan bonds, issued for money
                borrowed to aid in the suppression of the rebellion. I feel assured that, in the
                suspended and disallowed items of the different instalments, there are very
                considerable sums that are justly due to the State, the allowance of which might be
                obtained by furnishing such additional proofs and explanations as might be procured
                or made. It is, however, so difficult to procure an efficient prosecution of such
                claims without promising a large compensation for the service, that I prefer that
                the General Assembly should act in the matter, rather than to assume the
                responsibility myself.
            
            
              TAXATION OF RAILROADS.
              At the last special session I called attention in a message which will be found at
                page 122 of the Senate Journal, and at page 174 of  the House Journal, to some very glaring defects in the
                present law for the assessment and taxation of railroads, through which great
                injustice is done to the State and to the owners of other kinds of property subject
                to taxation.
              I now respectfully call attention to that communication, and renew the
                recommendations made therein.
            
            
              >TAXATION OF BANK STOCK.
              I repeat the recommendation made at the opening of the last General Assembly, that
                provision be made for taxing the shares of stock in the national and other banks,
                for municipal purposes, as other property is taxable.
              The opinions then expressed as to the power and duty of thus legislating remain
                unchanged.
            
            
              ASSESSMENT, EQUALIZATION AND COLLECTION OF TAXES.
              The entire taxable property of the State for the year 1868, as it appeared on the
                duplicates was $591,979,964. Under the operation of the new appraisement of real
                estate made in 1869, if we treat the proceedings of the State Board of Equalization
                as binding, the duplicates of 1869 ought to have shown the aggregate amount of the
                taxable property of the State to be $671,220,945, or an increase of $79,240,981. If
                all this increase had been carried on the duplicates, it is safe to say that even
                then the figures would not represent one-half of the real value of all the property
                that is taxable under our laws. The law requires property to be valued at its true
                cash value. This language as applied to the appraisement of real estate for taxation
                is construed to mean the sum that the property would command in gold at a forced
                sale, and by this construction the appraisement is reduced to less than one-half and
                in many instances to less than one-third of the amount that the owner would be
                willing to take for the property or than a prudent man desiring to purchase would
                give for it. There seems also in many cases to be a rivalry, not only between
                individuals, but between the officers of different counties to depreciate the value
                of their taxables on the duplicates. County officials take it for granted that the
                real estate in other counties will be appraised greatly below its true value; and,
                upon this assumption justify themselves in making a grossly insufficient
                appraisement as an act of necessary self-defense to present an excessive
                contribution to the common burthens. Nor does the evil stop here: The man whose
                taxables consists chiefly of personal property, justifies himself in returning to
                the assessor one-third part of the value thereof because he sees that his neighbor's
                acres and town lots are valued by a similar standard. The practical effect of this
                is to depreciate the wealth and importance of Indiana in comparison with other
                State, and the tendency is to keep immigration and capital from the State. Worse
                than all this, however, is the fact that such practices are inimical to public and
                private virtue, and give official sanction to fraud and falsehood.
              I recommend that, in imitation of the assessment laws of Michigan, an amendment
                shall be passed declaring that the words "cash value," an applied to the
                appraisement of property for taxation, shall mean the usual selling price at the
                place where the property is at the time of assessment, not at a forced sale, but at
                private sale. I trust that you will be able to devise some remedy to prevent the
                demoralizing practice of counties and individuals competing with each other in the
                valuation of their taxables at rates grossly disproportioned to their real
                value.
              The action of the State Board in equalizing the appraisement of real estate has
                been disregarded in many, if not all, the counties in which a per centum was
                directed to be added to the appraisements as left by the District Boards; but where
                a deduction was directed to be made, the County Auditors, at a general rule, have
                not been slow to execute the order in making out the duplicates. By this failure to
                comply with the action of the State Board, and by unauthorized deductions not
                authorized by that Board, the total value of all the taxable property of the State,
                as it stands on the duplicates, is reduced more than fifteen millions of dollars
                below what it would have been if the action of the State Board had been carried out,
                and no such unauthorized deductions had been made.
              At the last Special Session, the attention of some of the members of each House was
                called to the fact that, by the change in the boundaries of the Congressional
                Districts, the law as to the places of the meetings of the District Boards of
                Equalization in seven of the Congressional Districts had become impossible of
                execution, as the statute required each District Board to meet within the District
                and at the place designated; and this designated place had, by a change in the
                apportionment, been placed without the District to which it formerly belonged.
              A bill passed the Senate to remedy the difficulty, but it was not acted upon in the
                House. The Auditor of State, by advice of the Attorney General, designated the
                places of meeting of the District Boards in the seven Districts in which the law had
                become impossible of execution. The Auditor of Marion county, in making the
                Duplicate of 1869, having failed to recognize the action of the State Board in
                directing an increased per centum to be added to the appraised value of real estate
                in that county, the Attorney General, on the relation of the Auditor of State,
                commenced a proceeding in the Marion Civil Circuit Court, to compel the Auditor of
                Marion county to comply with the order of the State Board of Equalization.
              The question was presented on its merits, two points being made in resisting the
                issuing of a mandate, viz:
              
                . That the District Boards met at unauthorized places, and therefore
                  were illegal bodies and could not appoint delegates to the State Board, and that
                  the State Board having  been composed of
                  delegates, a majority of whom were thus appointed, it also was an illegal body,
                  and its acts were void.
                . That the session of the State Board was, by the statute, limited to
                  ten days; that its meetings were continued beyond the time limited, and that the
                  order of equalization was made on the twelfth day after that on which the Board
                  met and organized.
              
              The Circuit Court refused the mandate, and although the case was prepared for the
                Supreme Court by a reservation of the proper exceptions, no appeal has been
                taken--Attorney General Wiiliamson having, as I am informed, come to the conclusion
                that the judgment of the court below in refusing the mandate could not be
                reversed.
              After examining the question with some care, my own opinion is, that the objections
                made to the District Boards--though purely technical--are yet good technical
                objections, and that the remedy for the evil is not by appeal, but by curative
                legislation. The necessity for such legislation is clear; for, if the State Board
                was an illegal body, so also were the District Boards, and yet the action of the
                District Boards has been carried out by some of the County Auditors who repudiate
                that of the State Board.
              I have caused a tabular statement to be carefully compiled from the report of the
                Auditor of State for the year 1869, arranged by counties in alphabetical order,
                showing in separate columns what the aggregate value of the real estate and
                improvements would have been in each county if the action of the State Board had
                been carried forward to the duplicates; what it is as actually entered on the
                duplicates of 1869, with the increase or decrease occasioned by the failure to
                follow the orders of the Board.
              By this statement it will be seen that, in some counties, after deducting the per
                centum authorized by the State Board, large additional deductions have also been
                made.
              I will cheerfully furnish copies of said tabular statement to the committees to
                which the subject may be given in charge, it being too extended to make it a part of
                this communication.
              In view of what has been said, I respectfully recommend that the meetings,
                organization, and proceedings of the District Boards be legalized; that the
                proceedings of the State Board be thoroughly revised by a joint committee
                representing all parts of the State, and, so far as these proceedings may be found
                to be just and equitable, let them be affirmed; and, so far as they are found to be
                otherwise, let the appraisements be so altered as to make them conform to the just
                standard; and when the equalization is completed by the committee and approved by
                both Houses, let it be made effectual by the proper enactments.
              I further recommend that provision be made that future appraisements of real estate
                for taxation shall not become effectual until they are submitted to, and revised and
                affirmed by tha General Assembly at the first regular meeting thereof after the
                anaking of such appraisements: and, providing also that, if any County Auditor shall
                fail to conform to such appraisement after it has thus been affirmed, he may be
                proceeded against by action on his bond, or by a proceeding for a mandate in the
                courts of Marion county. Whenever the interests of the State are injuriously
                affected by the official negligence or official misconduct of a county officer, such
                county officer should, in my judgment, be liable to an action in some court at the
                Capital of the State. The existence of such liability would prevent the
                delinquencies that are now so common.
            
            
              EDUCATION.
              The report of the Superintendent of Public Instruction affords gratifying evidence
                of the progress of popular education throughout the State. The common schools are
                continually growing in public favor, and were never so efficient as they now are in
                training our children for the high duties of American citizenship. I am sure they
                will continue to deserve and receive the fostering care of the General Assembly.
              As the State school tax, as well as the income of the Common School Fund, is
                distributed among the several counties according to the number of children in each,
                it if highly important that the enumeration upon which this distribution is based
                should be free from the least suspicion of unfairness or inaccuracy. To this end the
                law should be so amended as to require not only the names of parents, guardians, and
                heads of families to appear in the list, as is now the case, but the names of the
                children belonging to each family(which is not now required) should also be given;
                and after the County Examiner has reported the enumeration to the Superintendent of
                Public Instruction, the original enumeration papers should be required to be filed
                in the office of the County Auditor, to be preserved, and to be open to public
                inspection. Authority should also be given to the Superintendent of Public
                Instruction to cause the enumerations to be revised, and, if found to be inaccurate,
                corrected before making the distributions; and, also, to equalize in making
                subsequent distributions, within a reasonable time, to be prescribed by statute, any
                inequitable distributions which may have been made on an incorrect enumeration.
                Severe penalties should also be provided for official malfeasance in making the
                enumerations.
              My attention has been called to the fact that some Township Trustees, instead of
                keeping the school moneys in their hands separate from the township funds, confuse
                the moneys and accounts, whereby school funds are applied to roads and other
                township purposes to the temporary injury or permanent loss of the schools.
              Such practices should be prohibited under proper penalties by plain statutory
                enactments to be published as a part of the school law, and placed in the hands of
                every Township Trustee.
            
            
              STATE UNIVERSITY.
              The State University has greatly enlarged the sphere of its usefulness in
                consequence  of the liberality of the last
                General Assembly, as well as the one preceding it. I commend the Institution to a
                continuance of the favorable consideration of the General Assembly.
            
            
              AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE.
              In pursuance of the act of May 6th, 1869, the College contemplated by the act of
                Congress of July 2,1862, was in 1869, located in Tippecanoe county, on a tract of
                land containing one hundred acres, donated for that purpose, and situated on the
                west side of the Wabash river, about one mile and a half from the city of Lafayette.
                Mr. Purdue gave his bond to the State for the payment of the donation of $150,000
                offered by him, the same being payable is annual installments in pursuance of his
                original proposition. The Board of Trustees of the Institution in accordance with
                the provisions of said act of May 6th, 1869, have assumed as their corporate style
                the name of "The Trustees of Purdue University." For the condition of the funds of
                the Institution and other information pertaining thereto, I respectfully refer you
                to the report of the Secretary and Treasurer of the Institution herewith
                submitted.
              By the act of May 5th, 1865, the Governor is made a member and President of the
                Board of Trustees. The land scrip having been disposed of and the money safely
                invested and the College being located, no sufficient reason, in my judgment, now
                exists for the continuance of the Governor as a member of the Board. I therefore
                recommend the passage of an amendment providing for the appointment of an additional
                Trustee and relieving the Governor from serving as a member of the Board.
            
            
              NORMAL SCHOOL.
              I have received no report from the officers of the State Normal School, and
                therefore have no definite information concerning its progress, condition or wants.
                I believe it is doing a good work, and is a necessary and important part of our
                common school system. To extend its benefits to those who ought to enjoy them, it
                would seem to be necessary that some plan should be devised whereby the cost of
                living to those who attend its sessions from other parts of the State should be
                diminished.
            
            
              INSTITUTE FOR THE BLIND.
              The Indiana Institute for the Education of the Blind, is, in the language of the
                report of its Trustees, "enjoving a high degree of prosperity, and doing its work
                well and to the credit of the State." To enable the Institution, however, to do all
                the work which ought to be done, it must be enlarged. There was a pressing necessity
                for such enlargement two years ago, but the officers of the Institution, in
                consequence of the appropriations required by the Hospital for the Insane and the
                Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, deferred urging an appropriation for that purpose
                until now. For the extension of the Institute building and for other improvements
                mentioned in the report of the Superintendent, it is estimated that the sum of
                $65,000 will be required. I earnestly recommend that the sum above named may be
                appropriated for the extension and improvements required.
            
            
              HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE.
              I cordially commend to your attentive consideration, the able and instructive
                report of the Superintendent of the Hospital for the Insane. The capacity of the
                institution has been largely increased, so that there is now room for 520 inmates.
                It is susceptible of a comparatively small additional increase of capacity by
                enlarging the south wing. Apart from the fact that it may be safely estimated that
                not more than one-third of the insane of the State who ought to receive the care and
                treatment of such an institution are now provided for, it would seem that the
                institution should be thus enlarged to equalize its capacity for the reception of
                patients of both sexes, the number of applicants for admission of each being about
                equal. If the south wing shall be thus enlarged, the capacity of the hospital will
                then have reached a limit beyond which it would not be wise to extend it, but
                instead thereof provision should be made for the erection of another institution at
                some other point in the State.
              It may be a question whether this should be attempted before making some provision
                for the care of the idiotic, and for the educatian of idiotic children. My
                impression, however, is that the sufferings of the insane still unprovided for are
                more severe, and that their condition more urgently demands speedy relief than the
                other unfortunate class to whom allusion is above made. I invite your consideration
                to the necessities of both these classes of unfortunates, in the hope that you will
                provide such relief at the the earliest practicable period as the claims of humanity
                demand, and the ability of the State will justify.
              It will be perceived by the Report of the Trustees and Superintendent of the
                Hospital that the appropriations made at the last session of the General Assembly
                are insufficient to defray the current expenses of the Institution to the 31st day
                of March, 1871, which is the end of the fiscal year of the Hospital. I recommend
                that this deficit be immediately supplied by an appropriation so that the officers
                of the Institution may not labor under the disadvantage of having to make their
                purchases on creidit until the passage of the General Appropriation Bill, at or near
                the close of the session.
              I also ask that the amount necessary topay for the water works furnished for the
                Institution, and now in successful operation, may be appropriated without delay.
              I invite your favorable consideration to what has been said by the Trustees and
                Superintendent in their reports as to the necessity of more liberal estimates for
                subsistence in making appropriations for the current expenses of the
                Institution.
            
            
              DEAF AND DUMB.
              The institution for the education of the deaf and dumb not only successfully con-
                   tinues to perform the beneficent work for
                which it was established, but, through the liberality of the last General Assembly
                in providing for its enlargement, the sphere of its usefulness has been greatly
                increased and extended. The contemplated extension of the building having been
                completed, the capacity of the institution is now believed to be sufficient for the
                accommodation of those entitled to its benefits for years to come. After the new
                building was completed and ready for being fitted up and furnished, the sum of
                $10,924 was drawn from the Treasury of the State on the application of the Trustees
                and Superintendent, and applied to fitting and furnishing the enlargement under an
                express authority given for that purpose in the organic law of the institution. By
                reason of the enlargement, the present school year commenced and continues with
                a'larger number of pupils than was estimated for when the appropriation for current
                expenses was made two years ago, and consequently there will be a deficit of $7,000,
                which sum I hope will be appropriated without delay, so that the current expenses of
                the institution to the end of its fiscal year, March 31, 1871, may be provided for,
                and the necessity and disadvantage of making purchases on credit may be avoided.
            
            
              SOLDIERS' HOME.
              I commend the Soldiers' and Seamen's Home at Knightstown, and especially the
                Orphans' Department thereof, to your especial consideration, with an expression of
                the hope that it may receive a more liberal support at your hands than has hitherto
                been accorded. Thus far it seems to have been reluctantly admitted into the family
                of our benevolent institutions, and it has appeared to be more difficult to get
                appropriations for its support than for any kindred institution. For my own part, I
                know of no class of the meritorious unfortunates who are entitled to a fuller
                measure of the sympathy and care of a benevolent and patriotic people than the
                scarred veterans' and soldiers' orphans now in the "Home" at Knightstown. The amount
                heretofore allowed for the current expenses of the Institution has been
                insufficient, and this year again the Commissioners have been compelled to borrow
                $5,000 to enable them to meet the necessary current expenses. I believe that the
                affairs of the Institution have been managed with marked judgment and economy, and
                trust that the provision for its support may be as liberal in proportion to its
                necessities as that made for any of the other benevolent institutions of the
                State.
            
            
              THE STATE BOARD OF AGRICULTURE AND STATE GEOLOGIST.
              It may well be doubted whether any act of legislation has been adopted by this
                State for many years which will prove so potent in developing the latent resources
                of the State, and in directing attention to our mineral wealth and manufacturing
                advantages as that of March 7, 1869, providing for the establishment of a Department
                of Geology and Natural Science in connection with the State Board of Agriculture. On
                the 22d day of March, 1869 I appointed Professor Edward T. Cox to the office of
                State Geologist, created by that act, and soon after he established himself at
                Indianapolis, and entered upon the duties of his office. The act required him to
                make survey, from time to time, of a portion of the State, in order to be able to
                complete a thorough geological survey of the State, as soon as consistent with his
                other duties, as defined by the act. With the small appropriation made, and the
                little assistance he was able to employ, it was impractical for the Geologist to
                extend his labors over a very large scope of country, unless he disregarded that
                thoroughness which is essential to the attainment of valuable results. He selected,
                as the chief field of his operation, that portion of the State which previous
                partial surveys had designated as the region whose development would be of the
                greatest immediate practical value to the entire State, in attracting both labor and
                capital to and within our borders. I have received letters from highly respectable
                gentlemen of different counties of the Northern, as well as the Southern portions of
                the State, complaining of the neglect which their respective localities had suffered
                at the hands of the State Geologist, but I am satisfied that the course he pursued
                was the wisest and best, considering the means at his command and the circumstances
                by which he was surrounded.
              I recommend that a reasonable addition be made to the salary of the State
                Geologist, and that increased means be placed at the disposal of the State Board of
                Agriculture for the support of its Geological and Scientific Department, so that
                assistant geologists may, at the earliest practicable period, be put in the field to
                hasten the completion of a survey of the entire State, and to avoid any suspicion
                that mere local interests are sought to be promoted. The developments already made,
                demonstrate that in the Block Coal of this State our people possess a mine of wealth
                that is practically inexhaustible. Covering a strip of territory averaging three
                miles in width, it exists in workable veins from the Ohio River to Warren County, a
                distance of one hundred and fifty miles. The fact that this coal can be taken
                directly from the mine to the furnace and used for smelting purposes without coking,
                producing as good, if not better iron than that made from the same ore with
                charcoal, gives Indiana advantages for manufacturing purposes that can hardly be
                exaggerated.
              If practical experience shall affirm, as I believe it will, the correctness of the
                opinion so confidently entertained by Professor Cox that, the iron made in the
                furnaces in Clay County will make as good Bessemer Steel as the imported iron now
                almost exclusively used for that purpose, our facilities for the production of steel
                rails must be of incalculable value.
            
            
              COURTS.
              I respectfully refer you to the Message de- 
                livered two years ago for my views in relation to our judiciary, and wish to be
                understood as repeating the recommendations then made. Since then the Supreme Court
                has decided that the Criminal Courts established in some of the more populous
                counties are not Circuit Courts, but that they have a legal existence as inferior
                courts. This being so, their names should be changed, and the harmony of our Circuit
                Court system should be restored by the proper amendatory enactments.
              I fully concur in the opinion so generally expressed by the judges and lawyers,
                that provision should be made for the addition of a fifth judge to the bench of the
                Supreme Court.
              I herewith respectfully submit a copy of the memorial adopted at a meeting of the
                Bench and Bar, held at Indianapolis on the 30th day of November last, on this
                subject, the same having been presented to me by the Committee having the matter in
                charge, with the request that I would lay the same before you.
              The statute passed at the last session requiring the salaries of the Judges and
                Prosecuting Attorneys of the Criminal Courts to be paid out of the County
                Treasuries, is wrong in principle, and ought to be repealed. If these Courts are not
                necessary to the effectual and prompt prosecution of the pleas of the State, they
                ought to be abolished; if they are necessary, the salaries of the Judges and
                Prosecutors ought to be paid out of the common treasury.
            
            
              DECEDENTS ESTATES.
              Some additional legislation is, in my judgment, necessary in relation to decedent's
                estates, for the attainment of the following objects, vis:
              
                To prevent small estates from being absorbed by the costs and
                  expenses of administration, by providing for their settlement, through the
                  instrumentality of a public administrator without charge to the estate, or by
                  dispensing with administration altogether.
                To enlarge the amount allowed to widows out of the estates of their
                  deceased husbands free from the claims of creditors.
                To make a similar exemption in favor of the decedent's infant children
                  of tender years left unprovided for by his or her death.
              
              I also believe that provision might with propriety be made to dispense with
                administration in all cases where those interested in the estate shall give
                undoubted security for the payment of the debts thereof within a reosonable time, to
                be prescribed by statute.
              I make these suggestions without going into detail, feeling assured that if the
                objects named shall meet your approval, there will be no difficulty in giving the
                recommendations practical effect.
            
            
              CRIMINAL LAW AND PRACTICE.
              I also refer to the views expressed two years ago on the subject of the amendment
                of our criminal code, and the reformation of the practice in criminal prosecutions.
                The views then expressed on these subjects are still entertained. I especially
                suggest that the brutal crime of prize fighting has not yet been denounced as a
                felony by our law.
            
            
              COUNTY REFORM.
              There is an unmistakable popular demand for reform in the administration of county
                affairs, and for the reduction of the fees of county officers, especially in the
                wealthy and populous counties. Under the constitutional provision preventing local
                or special legislation on the subject of fees and salaries, it is generally
                understood that compensation for official services can not be graduated according to
                population. This may render it difficult to devise a fee bill that will, in all
                cases, be just both to the public and to the office-holder. But this difficulty need
                not, and should not, prevent an effort being made, and successfully made, to
                accomplish the result.
            
            
              A NEW STATE HOUSE.
              I recommend that provision be made for the immediate acquisition of all the
                property not now owned by the State, situated between Tennessee and Mississippi
                streets and between Market and Ohio streets, and for vacating Market street, so far
                as it forms the northern boundary of the State House Square, and for vacating the
                alley which bounds the arsenal lot on the north, to the end that the property now
                owned by the State, and that so proposed to be acquired, may be used as a site for a
                new State House whenever it shall be deemed expedient to build one. The building of
                a new State Capitol connot long be deferred, and now is the proper time to secure
                the proper site without a large outlay for that purpose. The site proposed would
                embrace about nine acres.
            
            
              REFORMATORIES.
              The reports of the House of Refuge and the Reformatory for Women and Girls not
                having been received until after the preparation of this communication, I shall ask
                permission to present to you hereafter, in a special message, whatever I may deem it
                necessary to say concerning those institutions.
            
            
              OUR DIVORCE LAWS.
              The laws of this State regulating the granting of divorces, and especially the lax
                manner in which they have been administered in some of our courts, has given Indiana
                a notoriety that is by no means enviable. Some of the reproach that has been cast
                upon the State in this connection is doubtless undeserved; but a candid review of
                our laws and their practical operation on this important subject will, it is
                believed, satisfy any impartial mind, that a reformation is imperatively
                demanded.
              The causes for which divorces may be granted under the existing statutes are as
                follows, viz.:
              
                Adultry.
                Impotency.
                Abandonment for one year.
                Cruel treatment of one party by the other.
                Habitual drunkenness of either party.

                

                The conviction, subsequent to the marriage, in any country of
                  either party of an infamous crime.
                Any other cause for which the Court shall deem it proper that a
                  divorce should be granted.
              
              It is not my purpose to urge any objection to either of the six specific causes of
                divorce, above enumerated except to say that the phrase "cruel treatment," which
                constitutes the fourth cause has been so liberally construed in favor of applicants
                for divorce by some of our Courts as to render necessary, in my judgment, a return
                to the more positive language of the Statute of 1843, which required the treatment
                to be "cruel and inhuman." The great objection to our Statute is, however, the
                discretionary clause already quoted, allowing a Court to grant a divorce for any
                cause that the judge may deen sufficient.
              This clause which pretends to lay down a rule for the government of human affairs
                in the most important relation of life, is at war with the fundamental idea and
                elementary definition of law. Law is a prescribed rule of civil conduct. This Statue
                prescribes no rule, the observance of which shall save, or the violation of which
                shall forfeit conjugal rights. Under this clause the question,what is or is not a
                sufficient cause for a divorce, instead of being determined by a general rule, is
                measured by no rule at all, and the standard of judgment instead of being prescribed
                so that it may be known and read of all men, remains locked up in the mind of the
                Judge until he pronounces judgment between the parties in the case before him. It is
                worse than delegating legislative powers to the judiciary--which the Constitution
                expressly prohibits--for it authorizes the Judge to make his own judgement of what
                the law ought to be, the rule of decision in each case, as it arises, without any
                previous intimation of the standard or rule by which the rights of parties are to be
                measured. The Constitution prohibits special legisla-on the subject of granting
                divorces, but under this discretionary clause causes of divorce vary in the several
                judicial circuits and districts, with the diversified mental and moral peculiarities
                of the judges. Objectionable as the statute is which regulates the causes for which
                divorces may be granted, the law governing the practice in divorce cases is
                worse.
              The facility with which citizens of other States, after a pretended, residence in
                this, can and do procure divorces in our courts, and then return to their homes from
                which they fled for that very purpose, is a reproach to the civilization of the age,
                and a breach of that comity which should be scrupulously observed between sister
                States of the same great republican family. Under the present statute a divorce may
                be obtained in this State, where both the plaintiff and the defendant, at the time
                of the rendition of the decree, are resident citizens of another State. True, the
                applicant must have been a resident of the county in which he commences suit at the
                date of the filing of his petition, and he must have been a resident of the State
                for one year prior to that time, but the year having elapsed, and the petition being
                filed, his residence may then cease, he may return to the State from which he came,
                and his application for a divorce will be none the less successful by reason of his
                departure. Such a statute must be highly appreciated by divorce seekers from other
                States who cannot afford to keep up the appearance of a residence in this for more
                than one year, but it is not calculated to give citizens of Indiana a very exalted
                idea of the righteousness or wisdom of the legislation of their own State. Even
                permanent residents of our own State who apply for divorces, are favored by our
                practice above plaintiffs in other actions. The dependant, in every other action
                purely personal, if a resident of the State, must be sued in the county of his
                residence, but in divorce cases, the applicant has the right to sue in the county in
                which he resides, and he can change his residence, to attain success abroad, when
                failure would be certain at home.
              I therefore recommend that the clause of the statute which authorizes divorces for
                any cause that the Court may deem sufficient be repealed, and that the clause making
                cruel treatment a good cause of divorce be so amended as to require the treatment to
                be cruel and inhuman, or cruel and barbarous. I further recommend that the practice
                in divorce cases be so amended as to embrace the following provisions, viz:
              
                Requiring the defendant, when a resident of the State, to be sued in
                  the county of his or her residence.
                Requiring the plaintiff not only to have been a resident of the State
                  for one year prior to the filing of his petition, but that he should continue to
                  reside in the State during the pendency of the suit and until the case is
                  tried.
                Vesting in the Circuit Courts exclusive jurisdiction of applications
                  for divorce.
                Requiring the petition in every divorce case to show where the causes
                  of divorce relied on happened or accrued, and where the applicant resided at the
                  time, and if they happened or accrued elsewhere than in this State, and at a time
                  when tha plaintiff was not a resident of this State, that no divorce shall be
                  granted unless it be alleged in the petition and proved on the trial that the
                  matters so relied upon would be a good cause of divorce by the laws of the State,
                  place or jurisdiction within which the same happened or accrued.
                Requiring the allegations as to the place where the cause or causes
                  of divorce relied upon accrued, and the place of residence of the plaintiff at the
                  time of their accruing to be verified by affidavit appended to the petition, and
                  also to be proved on the trial.
              
              With such amendments as these we might well hope that Indiana divorces would soon
                cease to be advertised in any of the Atlantic cities as marketable commodities, and
                that refugees and fugitives from the justice of other States would no longer come to
                Indiana.  in quest of divorces to be used on
                their return to their homes as licenses to violate the laws of our sister
                States.
            
            
              STATE PRISONS.
              So far as I am informed, the State Prisons are well managed and in a satisfactory
                condition. The financial success of the present administration of the Northern
                Prison in making it self-sustaining, without disregarding or neglecting the
                physical, moral or intellectual interests of the prisoners, is worthy of the highest
                commendation.
              The moral reformation that has been wrought in the affairs of the State Prison
                South, since the commencement of the administration of the present Warden, has
                merited all the praise that has been so generously bestowed upon it.
              It is deeply to be regretted that under our system of officering these
                Institutions, the administration of their affairs is so liable to be changed with
                the mutations of political parties. Wisdom would dictate that considerable
                permanency of administration, coupled with a rigid responsibility on the part of
                those having the management of such Institutions, should prevail; our policy is just
                the reverse of this. It is frequent change of administration, with no liability to
                have the affairs of the Prisons inspected or the officers thereof called to account,
                except during the sixty-one days, in every period of two years, when the General
                Assembly is in session.
              I call your attention to the fact that there are insane prisoners in one, and
                perhaps both of our prisons, and some of these are dangerous to the other prisoners
                for want of proper facilities for their care and treatment. Experience has shown in
                Ohio and other States that it is unwise to transfer such prisoners to the Insane
                Hospital, as placing those convicted of crime among the other insane patients has a
                bad influence on the latter, and the treatment which the insane prisoners receive
                from the other inmates of the Hospital is not such as to promote their recovery. In
                addition to this, the Hospital is not sufficiently strong for such patients without
                preparing a ward expressly for their accommodation. I therefore recommend that a
                ward be constructed within the walls of the Northern Prison expressly for insane
                prisoners, and that provision be made for the transfer, from time to time, as
                occasion may require, of all insane prisoners in either of the prisons to such
                ward.
              I invite your attention to the statements in the Reports of the Directors and
                Warden of the Southern Prison in relation to the fire that occurred in April last
                and the money advanced to repair the damage done to the prison by the fire. The
                amount advanced was $12,000, and it was furnished by the Auditor of State out of the
                uninvested money of the Sinking Fund in his hands. There is consequently no
                liability for interest unless you see proper to provide for the payment of interest
                to the School Fund for the use of the money.
              I have already in speaking of the Sinking Fund recommended that an appropriation be
                made without delay to reimburse that Fund to the amount thus borrowed.
              I desire here to suggest that there ought to be a definite policy established by
                law as to the insurance of the buildings belonging to the various State
                institutions. There should be a uniform practice in this respect to insure all State
                buildings connected with the benevolent institutions, prisons and reformatories, or
                to insure none of them. As it now is, there is a partial insurance on some and none
                at all an others. The true policy, in my judgment, would be for the State to be the
                insurer of its own buildings without exception; that this policy would be profitable
                in the long run I have no doubt; but with it should be coupled the power, in the
                event of a loss by fire, to the Executive officers of the State to draw from the
                Treasury of the State, under proper restrictions and limitations to be prescribed by
                law, a sufficient sum of money to repair the injury done. As the matter now stands
                the General Assembly must in such case be convened in special session, at an expense
                to the State greater, as a general rule, than the sum necessary to be appropriated,
                or the Governor or some other officer must take the responsibility of obtaining and
                applying the necessary amount without authority of law.
              I commend to your careful consideration the propriety of pondering the question,
                whether it will not soon be necessary to abandon the Southern Prison, and establish
                in lieu thereof, at some central point in the State, a prison intermediate between
                the House of Refuge and the Penitentiary, with a view to the gradation of our
                reformatory and penal institutions, as well as to a classification of prisoners. The
                prison at Michigan City might be made to accommodate all the prisoners that would
                for some years be sent to a prison of that class if we had an intermediate prison.
                Its location in one of the extremes of the State is an objection to the policy of
                having but one prison of its class for the entire State, but I do not think this
                objection is insuperable. The prison at Jeffersonville is in such a condition that
                it will require a large amount to keep it in even tolerable repair, and then it
                seems cruel to perpetuate the policy of keeping human beings, though they be
                convicted criminals, in cells seven feet long, seven feet high, and three and a half
                feet wide, with no ventilating flues, and no possibility of getting fresh air except
                through the grating of the cell doors. If the contract system is to be continued,
                and I do not see how to do otherwise at present, the law itself should contain such
                provisions as will give the directors and warden full control and en able them to
                terminate the contracts whenever the interests of the State may require it. As the
                matter now is, the rights of the State depend very much on the skill, or want of
                skill with which the contracts for the labor of the prisoners are drawn.
            
            
              SUPERVISORY BOARD.
              I earnestly recommend that a Supervisory Board, to have jurisdiction, over all the
                State  Institutions, Benevolent, Penal and
                Reformatory, be established. Its powers of visitation and inspection ought to be
                ample, and it should also possess the power to suspend or remove officers connected
                with the institutions under its care; or the last named power might be given to the
                Executive to be exercised only upon the recommendation of such Board. As women and
                girls are inmates of our benevolent institutions, and will be in the new
                Reformatory, I deem it highly important that the members of such Board of
                Supervision should be composed in part of women.
            
            
              PARDONS AND REMISSIONS.
              I herewith respectfully submit, pursuant to the requirements of the Constitution, a
                report showing all the reprieves, commutations and pardons granted, and another
                showing all the fines and forfeitures remitted since the previous report made to the
                last General Assembly.
            
            
              CONCLUSION.
              In conclusion, I desire to add my hearty amen to the invocation of the Divine
                Blessing upon your labors with which this joint convention was opened, and to assure
                you of my cordial co-operation in all your efforts to elevate and improve the
                condition of the people, and to diversify the industries and develop the resources
                of the State.
              CONRAD BAKER.
              In accordance with law, Governor Baker presonted to the Legislature, accompanying
                the message, the report of pardons granted during the past two years, which will
                prove of interest as showing by whom Executive clemency has been invoked in behalf
                of condemned criminals, and the extent of the exercise of the pardoning power.
              In the instances where the sickness of a prisoner is given as a reason for
                discharge, the applications were granted on the statements of the prison officials
                that such persons were suffering from maladies that could not be cured while they
                were undergoing prison discipline.
            
            
              
                January, 1869.
              
              Isaac Holland, colored; grand larceny. Wayne county. Sentenced August 13, 1867, for
                two years; pardon granted on petition of H. B. Payne and others, there appearing to
                be serious doubts of felonious intent.
              Randolph Williams, grand larceny; two cases. Putnam county. Sentenced October 4,
                1865, for eight vears; pardon granted on petition of Prison Directors, as he was in
                the last stages of consumption.
              Anthony G oll, grand larceny. Shelby county. Sentenced for two years; pardon
                granted upon the recommendation of county officers and other good citizens.
              John Moore, assault and battery with intent to kill. Orange county. Sentenced
                August, 1868, for two years; pardon granted on recommendation of a large number of
                citizens, doubts existing as to his guilt.
              William R. Brooks, grand larceny. Carroll county. Sentenced May, 1867, for two
                years; pardon granted upon recommendation of the Prosecuting Attorney and other
                citizens. Brooks was indicted under the name of Thomas Scott.
              Joseph Kerr, embezzlement. Marion county, Sentenced July 12, 1866, for four years;
                pardoned at the instance of Judge Chapman, W. W. Leathers, Prosecuting Attorney, and
                C. F. Schmidt, the party from whom the money was embezzled.
              Aaron Hobbs, colored; murder. Knox county. Sentenced March, 1854, for life; pardon
                granted on recommendation of the county officers and other citizens.
              Samuel Montgomery, grand larceny, Warrick county. Sentenced October, 1868, for five
                years; pardon granted on recommendation of county officers and others, on account of
                his poor health.
            
            
              
                February, 1869.
              
              Robert S. Trotter. grand larceny, Putnam county. Sentenced October, 1867, for three
                years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Hon. D. E. Williamson and others, and
                certificate of Prison Board that one ought to be granted because of insanity.
              Oliver B. Pangborn, murder, Dearborn county. Sentenced November, 1861, for life;
                pardon granted upon recommendation of citizens of Dearborn county, and elsewhere,
                because of sickness.
              John Mains, grand larceny, Montgomery county. Sentenced February, 1869, for two
                years; pardon granted upon application of the county officers and other
                citizens.
            
            
              
                March, 1869.
              
              John Q. Brown, (colored), grand larceny, Marion county. Sentenced August 31st,
                1868, for two years; pardon granted because of Insanity.
              William P. Lucas, robbery, Vigo county. Sentenced March 20th. 1863, for seven
                years; pardon granted because of bad health of the prisoner.
              John Meyer, grand larceny, Perry county. Sentenced October, 1866, for three years;
                pardon granted because of bad health of prisoner.
              Harry Host, grand larceny, Henry county. Sentenced May, 1868, for two years; pardon
                grafted upon recommendation of Hon. J. H. Mellett and others.
              Jeremiah Ryan, assault and battery, Tippecanoe county. Sentenced November 16th,
                1868, for six months; pardon granted upon recommendation of Judge Vinton and
                others.
              Benjamin Stark, grand larceny, Owen county. Sentenced February 1869 to House of
                Refuge during his minority; pardon granted because the House was full, and no
                authority existed for his confinement elsewhere.
              Smith Martin, grand larceny, Marion county. Sentenced May 30, 1867, for five years;
                pardon granted because of bad health of prisoner.
              James Taylor, grand larceny, (two cases), Tippecanoe county. Sentenced June 15,
                1867, for 6 years; pardon granted because of ill-health of prisoner, conditioned
                that he  do act return to Tippecanoe county
                during the term for which he was sentenced. The pardon was not delivered until May,
                18, 1869.
              Enos Ellis, assault and battery with intent to murder, Jennings county. Sentenced
                March, 1869, for 30 days and fined $200; pardon granted upon recommendation of the
                presiding judge, prosecutor, and ten of the jurors.
              Nathan Fisher, poisoning, Marion county. Sentenced March 25, 1860, for 12 years;
                pardon granted upon recommendation of county officers and others.
              John Schumbaugh, assault and battery with intent to murder, Cass county. Sentenced
                July, 1866, for five years; pardon granted upon personal application of Judge T. C.
                Whitesides, who tried the case, and recommendation of other citizens.
              John L. Fowler and John W. Turner, burglary and larceny, Clay county. Sentenced
                March, 1868, for three years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Hon. D. R.
                Eckles, Judge, and others.
              Henry B. Hezekiah, conspiracy to commit a felony, Marion county. Sentenced March,
                1866, for ten years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Judge Chapman and others;
                conditioned that he is never to engage in any manner in selling intoxicating
                liquors, nor to return to Indianapolis during the term of his sentence.
            
            
              
                April, 1869.
              
              William J. Lutz, grand larceny, Montgomery county. Sentenced September, 1866, for
                four years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Judge Cowan and others.
              Elisha Pugh, arson, Rush county. Sentenced March, 1869, for five years; pardon
                granted upon recommendation of Judge Wilson and others.
              John Willis, grand larceny, Montgomery county. Sentenced March, 1868, for two
                years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Colonel S. C. Wilson and others.
              Frank Whittenberger, pettit larceny, Miami county. Sentenced March, 1869, for
                ninety days; pardon granted, remitting sixty days, on recommendation of Judge Biddle
                and others.
              Jasper Weist, pettit larceny, Miami county. Sentenced March, 1869, for 90 days;
                pardon granted, of same conditions as above, on same recommendation.
              Charles Frederick, grand larceny, Warrick county. Sentenced September 14, 1868, for
                3 years; pardon granted because of bad health of prisoner.
              John Wilby, May 1869, assault and battery with intent to murder, Greene county.
                Sentenced April 21, 1864, for 10 years; pardon granted upon recommendation of county
                officers and others.
              Enoch Cordea, murder, Boone county. Sentenced September 7, 1862, for life; pardon
                granted upon recommendations of a large number of citizens, and because of strong
                doubts of the prisoner's guilt.
              Benjamin. C. Tremaine, grand larceny, Allen county. Sentenced June, 1866, for
                4years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Dr. E. S. Higbee and others.
              Albert Holt, grand larceny, Miami county. Sentenced October 14, 1867, for 2 years;
                pardon granted upon recommendation of Col. J. M. Wilson and others.
              Lucy Mathis, grand larceny, Vigo county. Sentenced October 16, 1861, for 7 years;
                pardon granted upon recommendation of Hon. G. F. Cookely and others.
              August Withoff, burglary, Marion county. Sentenced May, 1867, for 3 years; pardon
                granted upon recommendation of Judge Chapman and others.
            
            
              
                June, 1869.
              
              Charles Procter, grand larceny, DeKalb county. Sentenced February 3,1868, for four
                years; pardon granted because of ill health of prisoner.
              Benjamin F. Finical, conspiracy to commit burglary, Jefferson county. Sentenced
                May, 1866, for five years; pardon granted upon the recommendation of Hon. D. C.
                Branham and others.
              John Hall, burglary, Greene county. Sentenced Janury, 1867, for three years; pardon
                granted upon recommendation of Hon. H. Burns, presiding Judge, and others.
              Jesse Harris, grand larceny, Henry county. Sentenced October, 1868, for two years;
                pardon granted upon the recommendation of Hon. M. L. Bundy and others.
            
            
              
                July, 1869.
              
              Marion Hazelwood, grand larceny, Jefferson county. Sentenced December, 1868, for
                two years; pardon granted upon recommendation of many good citizens, and because of
                the extreme youth of prisoner, and further that the evidence does not show that he
                was engaged in the larceny.
              James E. Hart, grand larceny, Pike county. Sentenced September 21, 1868, for
                two-years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Judge John Baker and others.
              William Harrison, assault and battery with intent to commit murder, Marion county.
                Sentenced July 7, 1866, for six years; pardon granted upon application of Judge
                Chapman and others.
              Henry Howard, grand larceny, Franklin county. Sentenced February, 1868, for three
                years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Hon. John H. Farquhar and others.
              Jacob Horbes, grand larceny, White county. Sentenced July 9, 1869, for two years;
                pardon granted upon recommendation of Judge Test and others.
              John Daily, robbery, Marion county. Sentenced July 17, 1868, for two years; pardon
                granted upon recommendation of Judge Chapman.
              William Halpin, manslaughter, Floyd county. Sentenced July 15, 1867, for ten years;
                pardon granted upon recommendation of Judge John H. Butler and others, to take
                effect upon his transfer to the Insane Asylum.
              August, 1869.Joseph Banniere, grand larceny, Marion county. Sentenced April 2,
                1869, for three years; pardoned to be transferred to the Insane Asylum.

              

              Alex. G. Hunning, grand larceny, Vanderburgh county. Sentenced November 16,1867,
                for three years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Hon. W. F. Parrott and
                others.
              Frederick Greve, grand larceny, Dubois county. Sentenced March 27, 1866, for five
                years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Judge Baker and others.
              Jacob Brill,grand larceny, Clarke county, sentenced January, 1868, for two years.
                Pardon granted upon recommendation of Hon. W. Q. Gresham and others.
              >Charles E. Pate, larceny, Ohio county. Sentenced August 11, 1868, for two
                years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Hon. L. H. Stewart and others.
              Sylvester Myrick, petit larceny, Marion county. Sentenced January 6, 1868, for two
                years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Judge Chapman and others, on the
                condition that he leave the State.
              Robert Hall, grand larceny, St. Joseph county. Sentenced April 16, 1868, for five
                years; pardon granted upon recommendation of county officers.
            
            
              
                September, 1869.
              
              Wm. O. Rice, grand larceny, Lawrencecounty. Sentenced September 7, 1868, for two
                years. Pardon granted upon recommendation of county officers and other good
                citizens.
              James Ludwick, larceny, St. Joseph county. Sentenced January, 1869, for one year.
                Pardon granted upon recommendation of Judge E. Egbert, Schuyler Colfax and
                others.
              L. D. Bingham, grand larceny, De Kalb county. Sentenced February, 1868, for two
                years; pardoned upon recommendation of leading citizens.
              B. F. Speers, seduction, Tippecanoe county. Sentenced to jail three months,
                September 20th, 1869; pardon granted upon recommendation of Hon. G. S. Orth and
                others.
            
            
              
                October, 1869.
              
              Charles Miller, grand larceny, Dubois county. Sentenced September 25, 1866, for
                four years; pardoned upon recommendation of W. R. Gardiner, Prosecuting Attorney,
                and other citizens.
              Samuel R. Haynes, burglary, Parke county. Sentenced January, 1867, for three years;
                pardoned on recommendation of leading citizens.
              John Bowman, petit larceny, Jefferson county. Sentenced July 22, 1869, for one
                year; pardoned upon recommendation of Judge Sullivan, the jury before whom the case
                was tried, and others.
              Presley George, grand larceny, Madison county; sentenced August 12, 1868, for two
                years. Pardoned upon recommendation of the prison physician and warden, as prisoner
                was in the last stages of consumption.
              Wm. H. Page, grand larceny, Vigo county; sentenced October 1867, for ten years.
                Pardoned upon recommendation of Hon. R. W. Thompson, before whom defendant was
                tried, and other citizens.
              Walter Dille, grand larceny, Vigo county; sentenced October 17,1867, for three
                years. Pardoned upon recommendation of Hon. R. W. Thompson, the county officers, and
                numerous citizens.
              George Harsh, grand larceny, Owen county; sentenced August 10, 1868, for two years.
                Pardoned upon recommendation of numerous citizens.
            
            
              
                November, 1869.
              
              Wm. G. Rogers, receiving stolen property, Bartholomew county. Sentenced April,
                1868, for three years; pardoned upon recommendation of good citizens.
              Thomas Berry, robbery, Marion county. Sentenced October, 1865, for seven years;
                pardoned upon condition that he leave the State, and does not return during the
                remainder of the term for which he was sentenced.
              Vincent S. Laughlin, grand larceny, Boone county. Sentenced March, 1868, for four
                years; pardoned upon recommendation of Judges Cowan and Cason, and the person whose
                property was stolen.
              James White, grand larceny, Fountain county. Sentenced February, 1869, for two
                years; pardoned upon recommendation of Hon. R. B. F. Pierce, Prosecuting Attorney,
                and other citizens.
              Samuel Gilbert, grand larceny, Switzerland county. Sentenced November 9, 1869, for
                two years; pardoned upon recommendation of the county officers and other
                citizens.
              Elias T. Crosby, forgery, Dearborn county. Sentenced September, 1869, for two
                years; pardoned upon recommendation of Judge R. N. Lamb, before whom the case was
                tried, the Prosecuting Attorney, and other citizens.
              James B. Addleman, grand larceny, Wayne county. Sentenced November, 15, 1869, to
                sixty days in county jail; pardoned upon recommendation of the county officers,
                jurors and others.
              Charles Williams, grand larceny, Vanderburg county. Sentenced September, 1868, for
                two years; pardoned upon recommendation of the prison warden and physician, as
                prisoner was dying with consumption.
            
            
              
                December, 1869.
              
              Amos Dugger, assault and battery, with intent to commit murder, Monroe county;
                sentenced october, 1868, for two years; pardoned upon recommendation of the Hon. D.
                R. Eckels, Hon. G. A. Buskirk, and others.
              Joseph Hitchcock, grand larceny, Bartholomew county; sentenced October 29, 1869,
                for two years; pardoned upon recommendation of a large number of good citizens.
              Simeon Watkins, larceny, St. Joseph county; sentenced January, 1869, for two years;
                pardoned upon a recommendation of Judge Egbert and others.
              Richard Pryor, obtaining signature of a person to written instrument by false
                pretenses, Cass county; sentenced December 14, 1869, for two years; pardoned upon
                recommendation of Judge Biddle, D. N. Chase, Prosecuting Attorney, and others.
            

            

            
              
                January, 1870.
              
              Edward Ryan, grand larceny, Marion county. Sentenced Nov, 12, 1864, for seven
                years; pardoned upon recommendation of the officers of the prison and other
                citizens.
              Emanuel S. Miller, grand larceny, Floyd county. Sentenced Jan, 14, 1870, for two
                years; pardoned upon recommendation of J. H. Butler, the prosecuting attorney, and
                others.
              Harmond King, forgery, Randolph county. Sentenced July 9, 1868, for three years.
                Pardoned upon recommendation of leading citizens.
              James Logan, burglary, Clark county. Sentenced Oct. 15, 1868, for two years.
                Pardoned upon recommendation of the prison Warden and physician, as prisoner was in
                last stages of consumption.
              Joseph Dean, grand larceny, Vigo county. Sentenced June, 1869, for two years;
                pardoned upon recommendation of Judge John G. Crain and B. W. Hanna, Prosecuting
                Attorney, on condition that prisoner shall not use as a beverage any intoxicating
                liquors during his term of sentence.
              Francis P. Sheridan, or Francis Denning, grand larceny, Vanderburgh county.
                Sentenced January, 1869, for two years; pardoned upon recommendation of prosecuting
                witnesses, Judge Iglehart, and others, on condition that he shall not use as a
                beverage any intoxicating liquors during his term of sentence.
              Benjamin P. Davis, forgery, Tippecanoe county. Sentenced January 1, 1869, for two
                years; pardoned upon recommendation of a large number of citizens.
            
            
              
                February, 1870.
              
              Reuben Lewiston, grand larceny, Marion county. Sentenced January, 1869, for two
                years; pardon granted upon recommendation of Judge Chapman and others.
              James Marsh, grand larcenty, Noble county. Sentenced 1869, for two years; pardoned
                upon recommendation of Judge Clapp and others.
              Charles Collins, larceny, DeKalb county. Sentenced February, 1869, for two years;
                pardoned upon recommendation of Judge Tously and others.
            
            
              
                March, 1870.
              
              Thomas W. Christerson, forgery, Marion county. Sentenced June, 1869, for 2 years;
                pardoned upon recommendation, of Judge Chapman and others.
              Abraham Gay, grand larceny, Jay county. Sentenced April, 1869, for 2 years;
                pardoned upon recommendation of Judge Colgrove and others.
              Gardener P. Wille, grand larceny, Greene county. Sentenced January, 1869, for 2
                years; pardoned upon petition of a large number of'citizens of Illinois and this
                State.
              Richard Wright alias William P. Wright, obtaining money under false pretenses,
                Floyd county. Sentenced October, 1868, for 2 years; pardoned on recommendation of
                George P. Huckby, Prosecuting Attorney, and others.
              Daniel Byrood, grand larceny, Boone county. Sentenced September, 1869, for 6 years;
                pardoned because of ill health.
            
            
              
                April, 1870.
              
              Abraham Edwards, grand larceny, Blackford county. Sentenced June, 1866, for 6
                years; pardoned because of bad health.
              John Jenkins, assault and battery. Wayne county. Sentenced June, 1868, for 2 years;
                pardoned on recommendation of county officers.
              Shellmire McPherson, grand larceny, Orange county. Sentenced August, 1868, for 2
                years; pardoned because of bad health.
               Richard D. Hutchings, Fayette county; sentenced March 1868, for three years.
                Pardoned on recommendation of Judge Wilson and others, and because of his
                youthfulness.
              Hiram Mitchell, colored, manslaughter, Jennings county; sentenced March 1866, for
                seven years. Pardoned on recommendation of a large number of citizens, and because
                of good conduct of prisoner.
              Margaret Brennan, burglary, Vigo county; sentenced October 1869, for two and
                one-half years. Pardoned on recommendation of a large number of citizens on
                condition that she shall not return to Vigo county during her term of sentence.
            
            
              
                May 1870.
              
              Wilson A. Boyle, grand larceny, Jasper county; sentenced March 1869, for two years.
                Pardoned upon recommendation of Judge Test and others, and because of his extreme
                youth.
              John W. Wood, rape, Laporte county; sentenced May, 1867, for five years. Pardoned
                on recommendation of citizens of Laporte and Porter counties, county officers, and
                others.
              John Deeter, grand larceny, Marion county; sentenced June, 1860, for two and a half
                years. Pardoned because of bad health.
              William Callahan, jr., assault and battery with intent to rape, Dearborn county;
                sentenced March, 1870, for six months. Pardoned upon recommendation of Judge Lamb
                and others. He was a boy 16 1/2 years old, and subject to dangerous fits.
              Alexander Trapkey, grand larceny, Marion county. Sentenced April, 1870, for three
                years; pardoned because of his bad health, to be sent to the Northwestern Branch of
                the National Asylum for Disabled Soldiers.
              Alexander Blake, grand larceny, St. Joseph county. Sentenced April, 1867, for six
                years; pardoned on recommendation of Hon. Jas. Davis and others, on condition that
                he leave the State within three weeks; prisoner was in bad health and could not long
                survive.
              Samuel Jenkins, grand larceny, Switzerland county. Sentenced May, 1869, for two
                years; pardoned on recommendation of county officers and others.
              John LeRoy, robbery, Marion county. Sentenced May, 1868, for three years; pardoned
                on recommendation of Hon. Daniel Macauley and others, on condition that he shall not
                return to Marion county during his term of sentence.
            
            
              
                June, 1870.
              
              Daniel Dietz, assault, and battery with in- 
                tent to murder, Clay county. Sentenced October, 1868, for twelve years; pardoned on
                recommendation of Judge Eckles and others.
              Robert M. Johnson, burglary, Johnson county. Sentenced March, 1868, for five years;
                pardoned upon recommendation of Judge C. C. Hines and others, and because the
                evidence did not warrant his conviction.
              James Herring (or Harran), grand larceny, Posey county. Sentenced April 1868, for 4
                years; pardoned because of bodily imfirmities, and from the fact that he is at times
                insane, and it is believed was so at the time of committing the theft.
              Henry C. Warriner, embezzlement, Marion county. Sentenced December 1867, for 5
                years; pardoned on recommendation of Judge Chapman and others.
              Edward Linden, grand larceny, Kosciusko county. Sentenced December, 1868, for 2
                years: pardoned on recommendation of Judge Carpenter and others.
              William A. Palmer, grand larceny, Clarke county. Sentenced May 1865, for 6 years;
                pardoned on recommendation of Judge Hester and others.
              William J. Arthur, robbery, Shelby county. Sentenced July 1868, for 3 years;
                pardoned because of bad health.
            
            
              
                July 1870.
              
              Hiram Alley, manslaughter, Decatur county. Sentenced June 1869, for 2 years;
                pardoned on recommendation of Judge Wilson and others, and on the ground that there
                was no evil intent on his part.
              Joseph Fisher, manslaughter, Dearborn county. Sentenced May 1863, for 21 years;
                pardoned on recommendation of Gen. Spooner and others, and because of uniform good
                conduct of prisoner.
              Cynthia Tyler, grand larceny, Fountain county. Sentenced March, 1870, for two
                years; pardoned on recommendation of Judge Rustin and others.
              James R. Roush, grand larceny, Clinton county. Sentenced February, 1869, for two
                years; pardoned on recommendation of Judge Carson and others, and because of his
                extreme youth.
              John Price, robbery, Posey county. Sentenced September, 1868, for seven years;
                pardoned on recommendation of Hon. W. T. Parrott and others, and statement of prison
                officials that he is a cripple for life, and his pardon would be an act of
                humanity.
            
            
              
                August, 1870.
              
              Bridget Wiley, manslaughter, Decatur county. Sentenced November, 1868, for two
                years; pardoned on recommendation of Colonel L. S. Shuler.
              John H. Smith, grand larceny, Wayne county. Sentenced August, 1867, for four years;
                pardoned on recommendation of Hon. W. A. Peele, of Wayne, and Hon. J. A. Miller, of
                Tippecanoe, and others.
              Charles Franklin, grand larceny, Allen county. Sentenced November, 1865, for eight
                years; pardoned because of bad health.
              James Peck, assault and battery with intent to murder, Vanderburg county. Sentenced
                August, 1870, for two years; pardoned on recommendation of Judge Iglehart, on
                condition that he would not drink any intoxicating liquors during the term of his
                service.
            
            
              
                September, 1870.
              
              James A. Padgett, murder, Daviess county. Sentenced August, 1867, for life;
                pardoned on recommendation of W. R. Gardner and others.
              Frank Schenhalter, grand larceny, Perry county. Sentenced August, 1869, for two
                years; pardoned on recommendation of Judge J. G. Jones and others.
              John Sewan, grand larceny, Hamilton county. Sentenced August, 1869, for two years;
                pardoned on recommendation of Judge Garver and others.
              Harvey Smith, grand larceny, Knox county. Sentenced August, 1869, for two years;
                pardoned on recommendation of Hon John Baker and others.
            
            
              
                October, 1870.
              
              James H. May, grand larceny, Jefferson county. Sentenced October, 1868, for three
                years: pardoned on recommendation of county officers, and statement of prison
                officials that the prisoner gives evidence of reformation.
            
            
              
                November, 1870.
              
              Samuel Clark, obtaining money under false pretenses, Wayne county. Sentenced June,
                1869, for 2 years; pardoned on recommendation of many citizens of Wayne and Randolph
                counties.
              William M. Hardin, grand larceny, Marion county. Sentenced July, 1869, for 2 years;
                pardoned on recommendation of Judge Chapman and others, on condition that he shall
                leave the State.
              William Reed, larceny, Marion county. Sentenced September, 1870, for 90 days;
                pardoned on recommendation af Judge Chapman and others.
            
            
              
                December, 1870.
              
              John Hitch, accessory to an assault and battery with intent to murder, Vanderburgh
                county. Sentenced July, 1869, for 2 years; pardoned on recommendation of Judge
                Parrott and others, and because there is no prospect that the principal will ever be
                punished.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The object for which the body was called having been
                accomplished, I now declare the convention adjourned without day.
              So the Joint Convention adjourned.
            
            
              
                ADJOURNMENT TILL MONDAY.
              
              The Speaker resumed the chair, and a motion was made that the House adjourn till
                Monday.
              Mr. NEFF asked for a change of the special order to consider the resolution for a
                joint convention and make the time Monday 3 o'clock P. M., and it was so ordered by
                unanimous consent.
              Mr. WILSON suggested that before the motion should be put for the adjournment till
                Monday a prior order would be necessary. The House having appointed nine o'clock in
                in the morning for the daily meeting, it  would
                be necessrry to order first that, when the House adjourns to-day, it shall be till
                Monday at two o'clock P. M.
              The House acquiesed in the suggestion and the order was made accordingly by
                unanimous consent.
              And then--
              On the motion of Mr. WILLIAMS the House adjourned till Monday 2 o'clock P. M.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            MONDAY, January 9, 1871.
          
          The Senate met pursuant to adjournment at 2 o'clock P. M.
          Lieutenant Governor CUMBACK in the chair.
          The Secretary's journal of Friday's proceedings was read, corrected and approved.
          
            RULES AND ORDERS.
            Mr. JOHNSTON called up his resolution offered Friday last for a change of the Rules
              of the Senate so that the daily sessions shall commence at ten o'clock A. M.
            On motion by Mr. BRADLEY the further consideration thereof was postponed till
              Thursday next.
          
          
            STATIONERY AND STAMPS.
            Mr. CAVE offered a resolution providing for stationery and stamps to the amount of
              $20 for each member$5 for the chairman of each committee, the Secretaries such as they
              may need and the Doorkeeper $10 worth.
            Mr. BRADLEY moved to amend by adding $5 worth of stamps for each member, and to
              include the President of the Senate.
            On motion of Mr. DITTEMORE, the amendment was laid on the table.
            Mr. MARTINDALE proposed an amendment, providing for such stationery and stamps as may
              be necessary for each member, not exceeding in amount $20.
            On motion, by Mr. WILLIAMS, the amendment was referred to a Select Committee of
              three, which the President makes to consist of Messrs. Williams, Cave and
              Martindole.
          
          
            NEWSPAPERS.
            Mr. DENBO offered a resolution, to provide for one copy each of the Indianapolis
              Daily Journal and Daily Sentinel; six copies each of the Weekly Sentinel, Journal,
              Telegraph, and Valksblatt, wrapped and stamped, "provided the same will publish a
              correct report of the proceedings of the Legislature."
            Mr. GRAY moved to amend by adding one copy of the Daily
              Commercial.
            On motion by Mr. SARNINGHAUSEN, one copy of the Daily Telegraph was
              added.
            Mr. HENDERSON offered a substitute providing for three copies each of the dailies Sentinel, Journal, Telegraph, Commercial and News,
              two stamped, and six copies o the Weekly Volksblattt wrapped and
              stamped.
            Mr. CAVEN made an ineffectual motion to add one copy of the American.
            Mr. HUGHES proposed an amendment, which was agreed to, providing that "the Senate may
              stop said papers at any time, and compensation thereupon shall only be paid to the
              time of the order discontinuing said papers."
            The substitute was agreed to.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved to amend by providing for but one copy of each of the dailies
              and the Telegraph.
            Mr. DITTEMORE made an ineffectual motion to amend by providing for one copy each of
              the dailies Sentinel and Journal' and six copies
              of their weekly addition.
            On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, the whole subject was laid on the table.
          
          
            SAN DOMINGO.
            Mr. BROWN submitted the following:
            
              
                
                  A joint resolution [S. 2] of instruction to the Senators in Congress
                    representing the State of Indiana on the subject of annexing Dominica to the
                    United States.
                  Resolved by the General Assembly of Indiana, That while not
                    opposed to a judicious acquisition of territory by the United States wherever
                    the same may be necessary for the public defense, for commerce, the adjustment
                    of boundaries, or the devolopment of the national resources, we condemn and
                    disapprove of the pending plan before Congress for the acquisition of a portion
                    of the Island of San Domingo.
                  Resolved, That our Senators in Congress be and are hereby
                    instructed and our Representatives requested to oppose by their votes and by all
                    legitimate means, the consummation of said plan, and all legislative action by
                    Congress looking to that end.
                  Resolved, That the Governor be and is hereby requested to
                    furnish each of our Senators and Representatives in Congress, as soon as
                    practicable, with a copy of these resolutions, and that he forward a copy of the
                    same, duly authenticated, to Hon. Charles Sumner, Senator from Massachusetts,
                    with a request from this General Assembly that the same my be presented by him
                    to the Senate of the United States.
                
              
            
            Mr. BROWN said: To be effective, this resolution should be passed at once, and as the
              subject has been exhaustively discussed in newspapers and in Congress, he moved the
              previous question.
            The demand for the previous question was seconded--23 to 18.
            The joint resolution was then adoped by yeas 26, nays 20, as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown, Carnahan, Cave,
                    Denbo, Ditte  more, Francisco, Glessner,
                    Gregg. Henderson, Hubbard, Hughes, Johnson, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan,
                    Rosebrough, Sarninghausen, Stroud, Wadge and Williams--26.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Case, Caven, Collett, Elliott. Fosdick, Gray,
                    Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper, Martindale, Miller, Robinson, Scott.
                    Steele, Taylor, and Wood--20.
                
              
            
            Pending the roll call--
            Mr. GRAY, in explanation of his vote, said, as the case now stands, he did not like
              to be hurried, for he thought there might be some light thrown on this subject soon,
              but inasmuch as he was compelled to vote under pressure of the previous question, he
              should vote "no."
            Mr. GREEN, when his name was called, said: This looks like strong meat, that a new
              resolution, on a new subject, just now beginning to excite the public mind, should be
              pushed so hurriedly. He had Senator Morton's speech and to-day received Senator
              Sumner's speech on the San Domingo question, and he would like time to read them and
              to consider the subject. But if it is to be the rule for the opposition here to
              prepare their resolutions and bills and call the previous question thereon as soon as
              introduced, he must submit as tamely as any one. He voted "no."
            Mr. HAMILTON, when his name was called said, he seldom had any trouble in making up
              his mind how to vote, but he believed the gentleman who hurried up this resolution
              without giving time for others to think about it, ought to have explained the subject
              before calling the previous question. He voted "no" because he knew nothing about
              it.
            So the joint resolution passed the Senate.
            Mr. BROWN moved to reconsider the vote by which the resolution was adopted, and to
              lay this motion on the table.
            The latter motion was agreed to.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            Mr. LASSALLE offered a concurrent res-lution providing for a joint select committee
              on fees and salaries, as follows:
            
              
                
                  Resolved by the Senate, the House concurring, That a joint
                    committee of five, two to be selected by the President of the Senate, and three
                    by the Speaker of the House, are hereby appointed, to whom all bills and
                    resolutions relating to the fees and salaries of State, county and township
                    officers should be referred, and whose further duty shall be to inquire into and
                    report by bill or otherwise upon the expediency of reducing any unnecessary
                    expenditures, State, county or municipal.
                  Mr. HENDERSON opposed the resolution. He desired the subject to be considered
                    here by a standing committee, to be chosen by the Senate.
                
              
            
            On motion by Mr. GREEN the resolution was laid on the table.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            Mr. BRADLEY introduced a bill [S. 5] to enable married women to join with their
              husbands and make executory contracts for the sale and conveyance of his real estate,
              which was read the first time and passed to the second reading.
            Mr. GREEN introduced a bill [S. 6] giving specific salaries for Clerks, Auditors,
              Treasurers and Sheriffs of the several counties in the State, providing for deputies,
              and repealing all laws in conflict with this act, which was read the first time and
              passed to the second reading.
            [It provides that each of these officials shall receive a salary of one thousand
              dollars, and be authorized to employ deputies, as follows: The Clerk and Auditor one
              deputy at $500 whenever the population of the county exceeds ten thousand, and one
              additional deputy for every 5,000 inhabitants. The Treasurer is authorized to employ
              the same number of deputies, under the same restrictions and regulations, except that
              where more than one deputy is allowed, their salary shall be $300 per annum. Where the
              Sheriff's deputies exceed one their salaries shall be $200 per annum.]
            Mr. HADLEY introduced a bill [S. 7,] providing for the publication of certain
              business therein named, of Boards of Commissioners, fixing a penalty, designating the
              terms when certain business shall be transacted, repealing all laws in conflict
              herewith, and declaring an emergency, which was read the first time and passed to the
              second reading.
            Mr. MARTINDALE introduced a bill [B. 8,] to amend the 7th and 11th sections of the
              act regulating the granting of divorces, approved May 13, 1852, and regulating all
              laws conflicting with this act, which was read the first time and passed to the second
              reading.
            [It strikes out the discretionary clause allowing courts to grant a divorce for any
              cause that the judges may deem sufficient. No divorce shall be decreed except for
              adultery and infamous crimes until after the expiration of three years from marriage.
              Where the act complained of was committed while the petitioner was a non-resident,
              such residence shall be for five years previous to the filing of such petition. The
              defendant shall be personally served with notice except in cases where the residence
              is unknown.]
            Mr. WOOD introduced a bill [S. 9] regulating interest on money. [On judgments at the
              rate per cent, agreed upon by the parties to the original contract, not exceeding ten
              per cent. if no contract, six per cent.]--It was read the first time, and passed to
              the second reading.
            Mr. GREGG introduced a bill [S. 10] repealing section one of "As Act entitled An Act
              prescribing the duties and fixing the compensation of State Agent, approved June 17,
              1852." and authorizing and requiring the Treasurer of State to perform the duties
              thereof, and declaring an emergency to exist for the taking effect of this act. It was
              read the first time and passed to the second reading.
            Mr. JOHNSON introduced a bill [S. 11] to amend an act entitled an act to enable the
              owners of wet lands to drain and reclaim them where the same can be done without
              affecting the lands of others, prescribing the powers and duties of County Boards and
                 County Auditors in the premises, and repealing
              all laws inconsistent therewith; approved March 11,1867, which was read th first time,
              and passed to the second reading.
            Mr. CAVE introduced a bill [S. 12] to amend section 7 of the common school law
              approved March 6th, 1865, which was read the first time and passed to the second
              reading.
            Mr. BEARDSLEY introduced a bill [S. 13] to establish the rate of interest on
              judgments and claims in certain cases, [same rate of interest on such, written
              obligations not exceeding ten per cent.], which was read the first time and passed to
              the second reading.
            Mr. HUBBARD introduced a bill [S. 14] to encourage manufacturing in the State of
              Indiana, and allowing and legalizing conveyances of real estate to foreign
              manufacturing corporations, which was read the first time and passed to the second
              reading.
            Mr. JOHNSTOH introduced a bill [S. 15] supplemental to the act authorizing the
              construction of plank, Macadamized and gravel roads of March 12, 1852, and the
              amendments thereto, which was read the first time and passed to the second
              reading.
            Mr. HESS introduced a bill [S. 16] entitled "an act to amend section 3 of an act
              entitled an act to authorize cities and towns to negotiate and sell bonds to procure
              means with which to erect and complete unfinished school buildings and pay debts
              contracted for the erection of such buildings, and authorizing the levy and collection
              of additional special school tax for the payment of principal and interest of such
              bonds, which was read the first time and passed to the second reading.
            Mr. WILLIAMS introduced a bill [S. 17] entitled "An act to regulate and make uniform
              the prices charged by railroad companies for transporting passengers, goods, wares,
              merchandise and other property, to and from stations on railroads in the State of
              Indiana, declaring the duty of certain officers in relation thereto, prescribing
              penalties for the violation thereof, and declaring an emergency."
            [It provides that railroads shall charge for transporting freight, goods, wares,
              merchandise, and other personal property, a distance not exceeding twenty miles, not
              more than one hundred per cent, above the rates fixed and charged for transporting
              freight over the entire line of such railroad. For transporting aforesaid articles a
              distance of more than twenty miles at a rate not exceeding twenty-five per cent. above
              the rates fixed and charged for transporting freight over the entire lenth of such
              railroad. For transporting the aforesaid articles a greater distance than fifty miles
              at a rate not exceeding fifty per cent. above the rates fixed and charged for
              transporting freight over the entire length of such railroad, the rates aforesaid to
              be in proportion to the amount charged, fixed and demanded for such railroad company
              for "through freight," or for transporting frieght over the entire line of such
              railroad. For transporting passengers from one station to another upon or along the
              line of any railroad within this State the compensation charged, demanded or received
              shall not exceed the rate of three and one-half cents per mile.]
            It was read the first time and passed to the second reading.
            Mr. CARNAHAN introduced a bill [S. 18] authorizing County Recorders to demand and
              receive their fees for recording at the time deeds, mortgages and others papers are
              presented to them for record, which was read the first time and passed to the second
              reading.
            Mr. BROWN introduced a bill [S. 19] to provide for the relocation of county seats,
              and for the erection of county buildings in such cases, &c., which was read the
              first time and passed to the second reading.
            Mr. HUBBARD introduced a bill [S. 20] empowering and legalizing appropriations for
              bridges by County Commissioners, which was read the first time and passed to the
              second reading.
            Mr. MARTINDALE introduced a bill [S. 21] to amend section 31 of the act defining
              felonies and prescribing punishment therefor approved June 10,1852. It was read the
              first time and passed to the second reading.
            Mr. DITTEMORE introduced a bill [S. 22] to fix the time of holding the Circuit Court
              in the Sixth Judicial Circuit [Owen, Morgan, Monroe, Putnanm, Greene and Clay
              counties], which was read the first time and passed to the second reading.
            Mr. LASALLE introduced a bill [S. 23] to constitute the Twenty-fifth Common Pleas
              Judicial District [the counties of Cass and Miami], which was read the first time and
              passed to the second reading.
            Pending the introduction of bills--
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR laid before the Senate the report of the Bank of the State of
              Indiana and branches.
            The Senate adjourned till two o'clock P. M. to morrow under the rules.
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            MONDAY, January 9, 1871.
          
          The House met, pursuant to adjournmentlast Friday, at 2 o'clock P. M.
          The session was opened with the order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. Morand.
          Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, presented thecredentials of the Hon. G. W.
            FRIEDLEY,Representative elect for the county of Lawrence, and, on his motion, that
            gentleman received the oath of his office at the hand of Judge BUSKIRK, of the Supreme
            Court of the State, and took his seat.
          The journal of Friday was read and approved.
          On motion of Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, Mr. Weakly obtained leave of absence till
            to-morrow, to enable him to attend the session of the Committee on
              Elections.
          
            SURVIVING SOLDIERS OF THE WAR OF 1812.
            The SPEAKER laid before the House acommunication from the Governor, transmitting a
              copy of a petition by the com  mittee of a meeting
              of the surviving soldiers of the war of 1812, residing in this State, in the town of
              Cambridge City, Wayne county, on the 26th of December, 1869, asking for the passage of
              a joint resolution by this General Assembly to memorialize the Congress of the United
              States for the passage of the bill pending at the time of the final adjournment of the
              last session of Congress, granting a pension to the surviving soldiers of the war of
              1812.
            Mr. NEFF, obtaining leave for the purpose, introduced a joint resolution, [H. R. 2],
              in relation to the granting of pensions to the surviving soldiers of the war of 1812,
              which was read[a memorial to Congress in the interest of these petitioners.]
            Mr. WILSON moved the adoption of the joint resolution. A joint resolution requires
              but one reading for its consideration and passage. He said it has been the practice of
              the House to require three readings of a joint resolution, but, he submitted that,
              upon better authority, it requires but one reading; and for this reason, in part, he
              moved that it be put at once on its passage.
            The joint resolution being read through again by the Clerk, was adopted on the part
              of the House of Representatives--yeas 92, nays 0.
          
          
            RULES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
            Mr. WILSON, from the Select Committee on Rules, reported a
              revision of the rules of the last House of Representative's, stating that the
              Committee endeavored to make the Rules conform to the practice in the Congress of the
              United States.
            The report having been read by Mr. W.--
            Mr. NEFF was satisfied that the committee have improved upon the rules of the last
              session, but the House should take time to consider their report. He could not keep up
              with the reading of the gentleman from Marion, so as to be advised of the various
              changes reported sufficiently to vote upon them. When once adopted and printed, it is
              not very convenient to amend these rules; and if he knew how to gain it, he would like
              to have time to consider the report.
            The SPEAKER suggested that the report might be printed.
            Mr. NEFF. Would it not be satisfactory to let it go over till to-morrow?
            Mr. McDONALD was not prepared to vote on these rules. He objected particularly to the
              change reported in Rule 22, for parliamentary reasons.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, moved that the further consideration of the report be
              postponed, and that it be made the special order for to-morrow morning at 10 o'clock;
              but he did not press his motion.
            Mr. GORDON moved that the report be printed.
            Mr. McDONALD would prefer the old rules rather than go to the expense of printing the
              report. It would save both time and money to make it a special order.
            Mr. WILSON also preferred to make it a special order.
            The motion to print was rejected, and then the report was made the special order for
              tomorrow at 10 o'clock A. M.
          
          
            OFFICERS ELECTIVE BY THE LEGISLATURE.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF the House took up for consideration the concurrent resolution
              of the Senate for a joint convention of the two Houses of the General Assembly in the
              Hall of the House of Representatives on Wednesday afternoon at 2 1/2 o'clock for the
              purpose of electing such officers as are to be elected by this General Assembly,
              except the Agent of State, whose election shall be postponed four weeks unless said
              office shall be abolished.
            The concurrent resolution was adopted on the part of the House of Representatives
              yeas 93, nays 1.
          
          
            BILLS.
            Mr. CONNER introduced a bill [H. R. 13] for an act creating the Twenty-ninth
              Judidicial Circuit, fixing time of holding court therein, declaring the vacancy of a
              Judge, and Prosecuting Attorney, and providing for these officers, providing for the
              return of process in said circuit, and providing a Judge to hold court in the county
              of Madison. [Said Twenty-ninth Circuit embraces the counties of Hamilton, Tipton, and
              Howard.]
            On the motion of Mr. CONNER, it was referred to a special committee appointed by the
              Speaker, viz: Messrs. Conner, Stephenson, Sansberry, Kilpatrick, and Gordon, of
              Boone.
            Mr. RHODES introduced a bill [H. R. 14] for an act to amend section 2 of an act in
              relation to interest on money, approved May 22, 1852, [interest on judgments shall be
              the rates specified in the contracts.]
            It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
             Mr. ST. JOHN introduced a bill [H. R. 15] for an act to amend sections 6 and 7 of an
              act regulating and granting divorces, nullification of marriages, and decrees and
              orders of court in relation thereto, approved May 13, 1852. [It confines the power of
              granting divorces to the Circuit Court, and provides, amongst other particulars, so
              that no divorce shall be granted in this State for any cause which would not entitle
              the applicant to a divorce in the State where he resided at the time of the
              offense.]
            Mr. STEPHENS introduced a bill [H. R. 16] for an act to amend the seventh section of
              an act regulating the granting of divorces.
            Mr. BROWNING introduced a bill, [H. R. 17] for an act to amend section twenty-two of
              an act prescribing the powers and duties of justice of the peace in State
              prosecutions. Approved May 29, 1852.
            Mr. BRITTON introduced a bill, [H. R. 18] for an act to repeal section two of an act
              repealing sections 2 to 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, of an act to require a registration of
              voters, approved March 11, 1867, and prescribing further duties of the officers of
              elections; approved May 13, 1869.
            Mr. BARNABY introduced a bill [H. R. 19] for an act to authorize the Common Coun-  cil of Jeffersonville to elect pilots for the falls
              of the Ohio river.
            Mr. STONE introduced a bill [H. R. 20] for an act to abolish the office of Agent of
              State, and to authorize the Governor, by and with the advice and consent of the
              Senate, to appoint a temporary Agent, if necessary.
            It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
          
          
            WM. M. MERWIN.
            Mr. NEFF submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that Wm. M. Merwin be allowed
              five days' pay and mileage for his services in the organization of this House; that
              the Speaker draw his warrant for the same; and that the same be paid out of the
              appropriation for legislative purposes.
          
          
            BILLS.
            Mr. WARRUM introduced a bill [H. R. 21] for an act to amend sections 97 and 103 of an
              act to revise, simplify and abridge the forms of practice and proceedure in criminal
              actions in this State; approved June 17, 1852.
            Mr. CALDWELL introduced a bill [H. R. 22] for an act to amend an act to enable the
              owners of wet lands to drain and reclaim them when the same can be done without
              affecting the rights of other land owners, by amending the tittle thereof, and
              sections 1, 3, 4, 6, 9,11,12-the tittle to be amended so as to read: An act to enable
              and encourage the owners of wet lands and marshes to drain and reclaim them when the
              same can be done without affecting the rights of others, and defining the duties of
              county officers in relation thereto, and repealing all acts in conflict with the
              provisions of this act.
            Mr. WOOD introduced a bill [H. R. 23] for an act to repeal an act to authorize and
              encourage the construction of levees, dykes and drains by incorporated companies, and
              to repeal all former laws in relation thereto, which took effect May 22, 1869.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter, presented a petition from sundry citizens of Porter county
              asking for the passage of this bill, and by unanimous consent it was ordered to be
              referred with the bill.
            Mr. MARTIN of Wayne introduced a bill [H. R. 24] for an act to amend section 90 of
              the criminal procedure act of June 17,1852. [It declares that amongst the competent
              witnesses, the accused may testify if he chooses.]
            A message from the Senate by Mr. Cory, Secretary, announced the passage in that body
              of a resolution on the subject of annexing Dominica to the United States, and asking
              the concurrence of the House of Representatives.
          
          
            BILLS.
            Mr. MAJOR Introduced a bill [H. E. 25] for an act to amend section 77 of the common
              school law of March 11,1861. [School funds to be loaned at 10 per cent. interest.]
            Mr. WASHBURN introduced a bill [H. R. 26] for an act to raise revenue for State
              purposes for the years 1871, 1872 and for subsequent years. [A tax of ten cents on the
              $100.]
            Mr. TAYLOR introduced a bill [H. R. 27] for an act for the improvement of highways,
              and providing for the assessment and collection of road taxes, and prescribing the
              duties of Township Trustees and others in relation thereto.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, introduced a bill [H. R. 28] for an act regulating and fixing
              the salaries of certain county officers therein mentioned, and providing for the
              compensation of deputies appointed by them.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, introduced a bill [H. R. 29] repealing sections three and four
              of an act entitled "An Act authorizing voluntary associations formed under an act
              concerning the organization of voluntary associations and repealing former laws in
              reference thereto, approved February 12,1855, to acquire title to lands that have
              heretofore been used as burial places, and to acquire additional adjoining lands for
              burial purposes and declaring an emergency," approved May 14, 1869, and declaring an
              emergency.
            The House then at 4:10 o'clock adjourned.
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORT.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            TUESDAY, January 10, 1871.
          
          The Senate met pursuant to adjournment, under the rule, at 2 o'clock P. M., Lieutenant
            Governor CUMBACK in the Chair.
          On motion of Mr. STEELE, Hon. ROBERT DWIGGINS, Senator elect from the counties of
            Pulaski, White, Benton, Jasper and Newton, came forward and was sworn in by Hon. Alex.
            C. Downey, one of the Judges of the Supreme Court.
          The Secretary's journal of yesterday was read and approved.
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. BEESON presented a petition from a number of ladies of Jay county praying for an
              amendment to the constitution, so as to remove all legal and political disabilities of
              women, which he would like to have referred to a select committee of five, to whom all
              like petitions shall be referred. He made this motion at the request of the
              correspondent forwarding the petition.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 27, nays 22--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Andrews, Armstrong, Beardsley, Beeson, Bobo,
                    Carnahan, Case, Collett, Denbo, Dwiggins, Fosdick, Fuller, Green, Hadley,
                    Hamilton, Hess, Hubbard, Keigwin, Martindale, Miller, Morgan, Robinson, Scott,
                    Steele, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--27.
                  NAYS--Messrs, Alsop, Beggs, Bradley, Brown, Cave, Caven,
                    Dittemore, Dougherty, Elliott, Francisco, Glessner, Gray, Gregg, Henderson,
                    Hooper, Hughes, Johnson, Lasalle, Rosebrough, Sarninghausen, Stroud and
                    Williams--22.
                
              
            
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR makes the committee to consist of Messrs. Beeson, Fuller,
              Dwiggins, Hadley and Morgan.
            The LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR laid before the Senate a communication from the Governor,
              transmitting a copy of a petition by the committee of a meeting of the surviving
              soldiers of the war of 1812, residing in this State, in the town of Cambridge City,
              Wayne county, on the 26th of December, 1869, asking for the passage of a joint
              resolution by this General Assembly to memorialize the Congress of the United States
              for the passage of the bill pending at the time of the final adjournment of the last
              session of Congress, granting a pension to the surviving soldiers of the war of
              1812.
          
          
            STANDING COEMITTEES.
            Mr. BRADLEY, from a majority of committee appointed to select the standing committees
              of the Senate, submitted the following report:
            Mr. PRESIDENT--The majority of the committee appointed by the Senate to select the
              standing committees of the Senate respectfully report that they have had that matter
              under consideration and have constituted the several committees as follows, the
              Senator first named on each committee to be the Chairman thereof:
            On Elections--Messrs. Bobo, Hughes, Johnston, Dittemore, Scott, Cave and Steele.
            On Finance--Messrs. Williams, Lasselle,Glessner, Dougherty, Gray, Hooper and
              Beardsley.
            On Judiciary--Messrs. Hughes, Bradley, Brown, Glessner, Hooper, Scott and Caven.
            On Education--Messrs. Bradley, Hughes, Francisco, Johnson, Taylor Hadley and
              Scott.
            On Corporations--Messrs. Brown, Carnahan, Armstrong, Henderson, Greene, Wood and
              Hubbard.
            On Roads--Messrs. Cave. Johnson, Alsop, Fuller, Hamilton, Hess and Robinson.
            On Benevolent institutions--Messrs. Morgan, Brown, Carnahan, Bobo, Green,Martindale
              and Scott.
            On Agriculture--Messrs, Johnston, Williams, Robinson, Beeson, Cave, Carnahan and
              Collett.
            On Banks--Messrs. Fuller, Beggs, Cave, Andrews, Case, Greggs and Dwiggins.
            On ManufacturesMessrs. Francisco, Alsop, Beardsley, Miller, Morgan, Dougherty and
              Fosdick.
            On Public Printing--Messrs. Keigwin, Williams, Lasalle, Caven, Hooper, Henderson and
              Scott.
            On Public Buildings--Messrs. Scott, Elliott, Morgan, Fosdick, Keigwin, Fuller and
              Steele.
            On Prisons--Messrs. Dittemore, Denbo, Johnson, Gray, Robinson, Williams and
              Wadge.
            On Canals and Internal Improvements--Messrs. Gregg, Armstrong, Wood, Miller, Keigwin,
              Alsop and Wadge.
            On State Library--Messrs. Stroud, Beggs, Caven, Gregg, Rosebrough, Andrews and
              Dwiggins.
            On Fees and Salaries--Messrs, Henderson, Denbo, Gray, Glessner, Strond, Martindale
              and Hubbard.
            On Claims--Messrs. Carnahan, Francisco, Hess, Denbo, Sarninghausen, Caven and
              Hooper.
            On Military Affairs--Messrs. Dougherty, Cave, Hadley, Dittemore, Kigwin, Steele and
              Hamilton.
            On Phraseology, Arrangement of Bills and Enrolled Bills--Messrs. Bradley, Strond,
              Hooper, Sarninghausen, Bobo, Caven and Hubbard.
            On Unfinished Business--Messrs. Armstrorg, Beggs, Beeson, Brown. Elliott, Beardsley
              and Andrews.
            On Organization of Courts--Messrs. Lasalle, Glessner, Brown, Hughes, Martindale,
              Scott and Woods.

            

            On Federal Relations Messrs. Beggs, Fuller, Hughes, Beerson, Rosebrough, Collet and
              Dwiggins.
            On Expenditures--Messrs. Denbo, Alsop, Taylor, Sarninghausen. Fosdick and Hess.
            On Swamp LandsMessrs. Rosebrough, Bradley, Miller, Bobo, Williams, Greene and
              Hadley.
            On Temperance Messrs, Sarninghausen, Francisco, Robinson, Elliott, Cave, Wadge and
              Case.
            On County and Township Business--Messrs. Glessner, Denbo, Beeson, Dittemore,
              Daugherty. Elliott and Fosdick.
            On Rights and Privileges of Inhabitants of this StateMessrs. Johnston, Stroud,
              Elliott, Morgan, Gregg, Hess and Robinson.
            On Reformatory Institutions Messrs. Morgan, Stroud, Hadley. Rosebrough, Armstrong,
              Beeson and Beardsley.
            On EmigrationMessrs. Elsop, Dittemore, Dwiggins, Elliott, Beggs, Greggs and
              Collett.
            On InsuranceMessrs. Lasalle, Hesderson. Martindale, Brown, Dougherty, Taylor and
              Scott.
            On Railroads--Messrs. Glessner, Beggs, Andrews, Bradley, Bobo, Gray and Hess.
            In which they respectfully ask the concurrence of the Senate.
            JAMES BRADLEY, Chairman,
              O. J. GLESSNER, M. T. CARNAHAN, EB. HENDERSON.
            Mr. MARTINDALE in behalf of the minority of the same committee, submitted the
              following report:
            Mr. PRESIDENT--The minority of the committee appointed by the
              Senate to select the standing committees of the Senate would respectfully report, that
              they cannot concur in the report of the majority of the committee for the following
              among other reasons:
            That said committees are not equitably distributed between the political parties of
              the Senate according to their respective members. That said committees are not
              constituted with reference to the qualifica- of the parties composing the same for
              service on the several committees to which they have been assigned, but rather with
              reference to their political proclivities.
            That the Hon. John W. Burson, the Senator from Delaware and Madison, has been
              purposely ignored by the majority and placed upon no committee.
            The minority would respectfully represent that the Hon. John W. Burson was regularly
              elected Senator from the counties of Delaware and Madison and holding his certificate
              of such election in due form of law, he presentad the same to the Lieutenant Governor
              at the bar of this Senate, on Thursday, the 5th day of January, instant, find the oath
              of office as such Senator was then and there administered to him by the Hon. Alexander
              C. Downey, one of the Judges of the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana, all of
              which appear by the journals of this Senate. That when sworn into office (although the
              oath of office was administered to him while a protest was pending by other Senators
              against the administration of the same) he was and is a Senator, with all the rights
              and privileges of other Senators, and can only be displaced by the modes prescribed,
              by the constitution and laws of the State. It is not pretended that any such action
              has been taken in this case, but on the contrary, a bare majority of Senators have
              undertaken to silence and displace the Senator from Delaware and Madison counties and
              deprive these counties of representation on this floor.
            We therefore respectfully place the Hon. John W. Burson, Senator from Delaware and
              Madison, on the Committee on Finance, in place of Mr. Hooper, named
              in the majority report. Also, on the Committee on County and Township
                Business, in place of Mr. Beeson, named in the majority report.
            E. B. MARTINDALE. D. SCOTT.
            Mr. BRADLEY moved to lay the minority report on the table.
            On this motion the yeas and nays were demanded, and being ordered they were being
              taken when--
            Mr. HADLEY moved that the name of the Senator from Delaware [Mr. Burson] be
              called.
            Mr. HUGHES and Mr. BROWN rose to a point of order. The call has been commenced and is
              pending and no motion is in order. Besides, it is a question already decided by the
              Senate, and the only proper way to reach it is to move a reconsideration of the
              decision of the Senate.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR--The Chair rules that the point of order is not well taken.
              In the first place it is usual to suggest or move that the name of a Senator omitted
              be called before the result of the vote is announced; and in the second place, on the
              other point raised by the Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] the motion of the Senator
              from Monroe to which he refers applied simply to the roll call then pending before the
              Senate for its consideration. The Chair will overrule the point of order.
            Here followed a two hours' debate, participated in by Hughes, Martindale, Brown,
              Steele, Hadley, Williams, Hooper, Gray, Bradley, Johnston, Green, Woods and Scott. It
              will appear in the appendix to the BREVIER REPORTS.
            Pending the discussion--
            At 4 1/2 o'clock P. M. Mr. TAYLOR moved that the Senate adjourn.
            The motion was rejected upon a division--affirmative 20, negative 24.
            At 5:45 o'clock Mr. BRADLEY demanded the previous question.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved for a call of the Senate.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR was about to submit the question, when--
            Mr. GRAY interrupted to inquire whether the Chair decides that it requires a vote to
              obtain a call of the Sentate.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. Certainly; it is a question for the Senate to determine. The
              usage has been that when any Senator demanded a call of the Senate it was ordered
              without question; but it is the province of the Senate to determine whether there
              shall be a call.
            The motion for a call of the Senate was rejected upon a division--affirmative 22,
              negative 26.

            

            The demand for the previous question was seconded by the Senate.
            Mr. HADLEY desired consent to withdraw his motion that Mr. Burson's name be
              called.
            Several Senators objected.
            The LIEUTANANT GOVERNOR. Objection is made; the Secretary will call the roll.
            The Senate refused to sustain the decision of the Chair by yeas 23, nays 25--as
              follows :
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Case, Caven,
                    Collett, Dwiggins, Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper.
                    Hubbard. Martindale, Miller, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wadge and
                    Wood--23.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown,
                    Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittomore, Daugherty, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg,
                    Henderson, Hughes, Johnson, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan, Rosebrough,
                    Sarninghausen, Stroud and Williams--25.
                
              
            
            Mr. FOSDICK moved that the Senate adjourn.
            Mr. BROWN. The vote of the Senate already taken on the motion to lay the minority
              report on the table should be now announced.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. That is correct.
            The vote was announced--yeas 24, nays 25 as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Alsop, Armstrong, Bobo, Bradley, Brown, Carnahan,
                    Cave, Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg,
                    Henderson, Hughes, Johnson, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan, Rosebrough,
                    Sarninghausen, Stroud and Williams--24.
                  NAYS--Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Beggs, Case, Caven,
                    Collett, Dwiggins, Elliott, Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess,
                    Hooper, Hubbard, Martindale, Miller, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wadge and
                    Wood--25.
                
              
            
            So the motion to lay on the table was rejected.
            Mr. BROWN demanded the previous question on the adoption of the minority report.
            The demand was sustained by 25 Senators, and the minority report was rejected without
              a division.
            The majority report was concurred in without a division.
            Mr. BROWN moved to reconsider the vote adopting the majority report, and to lay this
              motion on the table.
            The latter motion was agreed to by yeas 30, nays 19--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Beardsley, Beggs, Bobo,
                    Bradley, Brown, Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty, Fosdick, Fracisco,
                    Fuller, Glessner, Gray, Gregg, Henderson, Hooper, Hughes, Johnson, Keigwin,
                    Lasselle, Morgan, Rosebrough, Sarninghausen, Steele, Straud and
                    Williams--30.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Beeson, Case, Caven, Collett,
                    Dwiggins, Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hubbard, Martindale, Miller, Robinson,
                    Scott, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--19.
                
              
            
            And then the Senate adjourned till 2 o'clock P. M. to-morrow--under the rule.
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            TUESDAY, January 10, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.
          On motion of Mr. MARTIN of Putnam, Mr. Neff was called to the Chair in the temporary
            absence of the Speaker.
          The session was opened with the order of prayer by Rev. Mr. Holliday.
          The reading of the journal of yesterday was ordered, and proceeded till--
          On motion of Mr. TEBBS the further reading was dispensed with.
          
            PETITIONS.
            Mr. WOODARD presented the petition of sundry citizens and land owners of Jackson
              township in Parke county, for remedy against unequal valuations of lands for
              taxation.
            Mr. RAWLES presented the petition of John B. Howe and other citizens of the county of
              Lagrange, in the same matter.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH presented the petition of sundry citizens of St. Joseph county for
              the repeal of the Swamp Land law.
            Mr. MONROE presented the petition of members of Capt. James O'Morgan's company,
              praying for the same pay granted the companies of Captains Donally and Goodloe.
            Mr. RUDDELL presented the report of the State Librarian, which, without reading, was
              referred to the Committee on the Library.
            Mr. CALKINS acquiesced; and the order was made accordingly.
          
          
            THE REFORM SCHOOL.
            Mr. FURNAS offered a preamble and resolution reciting that some of the work done on
              the principal building recently erected at the Reform School at Plainfield, has not
              been paid for the Directors and Superintendents thereof maintaining that such work has
              not been done according to contract and specfication in reference to said building;
              and whereas permanent work said to be absolutely necessary has been done by the
              contractor in the completion of the building, and which remains to this time wholly
              unpaid, compensation therefor being refused to be made for said work in consideration
              of such work being outside of the specifications of said building contract,
              therefore
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That a Committee of five be appointed by the
                    Speaker of this House to investigate the matters of difference as above stated,
                    with sufficient power to send for persons and papers; and that said Committee be
                    required to report the result of their investigations at an early day.
                
              
            
            Mr. FURNAS stated the fact that the specifications for that building were not
              complete; as there was to be a flight of stone steps which were necessary in the
              construction, but not contemplated in the original plan. He was informed also, that
              there was no specification for doors and windows. Not-withstanding the contractor has
              gone on and built to general satisfaction; and this resolution was for the purpose of
              looking to his imdemnification.
            It was adopted.
          
          
            PROTECTION OF FISH.
            Mr. STEPHENSON introduced a bill [H. R. 30] for an act for the protection of fish,
              and providing penalties for its violation. [It does not prohibit fishing in the Ohio
              and St. Joseph.]
          

          

          
            DIVORCE LAWS.
            Mr. BIGGS Introduced a bill [H. R. 31] for an act to amend sections 6 and 7 of an act
              regulating the granting of divorces, nullification of marriages and decrees and orders
              of court incident thereto. [Applicants residence two years--action to be brought in
              the county where the defendant resides.]
          
          
            LEGISLATIVE EXPENSES.
            Mr. WILLIAMS introduced a bill [H. R. 32] for an act appropriating $100,000 to defray
              the expenses of the 47th session of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana.
            Subsequently--
            On the motion of Mr. ZENOR, the rules and the Constitutional provision requiring
              bills to be read on three several days, were suspended, by yeas, 93; nays, 2
              two-thirds voting in the affirmative--this bill was carried through the stages of
              reading, and finally passed to the House of Representatives--yeas, 95; nays, 2; and it
              was ordered that the clerk acquaint the Senate.
          
          
            RESOLUTIONS.
            Mr. SAYERS offered a resolution, which was adopted, That Thomas C. McCann, doorkeeper
              of the last House of Representatives, be allowed five days pay and mileage for
              services in the organization of this House.
            Mr. ABBOTT offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the doorkeeper be requested
              to furnish suitable seats within the bar of the House for the accommodation of
              Ministers of the Gospel, and that they are respectfully invited to seats during
              business hours.
            Mr. MINNICK offered a resolution, which was adopted, That the doorkeeper be
              instructed to place some mark on the wrapper of each wrapped newspaper received here,
              so that each member may know the politics of the paper therein.
          
          
            DOMINICA.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, moved that the joint resolution from the Senate in relation
              to the annexation of Dominica to the United States, be taken up and made the special
              order at two o'clock this afternoon. There were a great many of the minority here in
              full sympathy with the general sentiment of that resolution, but there were some
              matters contained in it, which, with some of the members of the minority, it would be
              desirable to have amended. It was his purpose by this motion, to get the whole matter
              so fixed that both parties may express their sentiments therein.
            The SPEAKER (Mr. Neff in the Chair) suggested 2 1/2 o'clock.
          
          
            INTEREST ON JUDGMENTS.
            Mr. BRITTON introduced a bill [H. R. 33] for an act to amend an act regulating
              interest on money, and to repeal all laws in conflict with this act. [Interest on
              judgments shall be at the rate contracted--not exceeding ten per cent.]
          
          
            MARRIED WOMEN.
            Mr. RHODES introduced a bill [H. R. 34]or an act empowering married women under 21
              years old to convey their real estate. [Over 18 and under 21, may convey with the
              consent of husband.]
          
          
            STANDING COMMITTEES.
            The SPEAKER now announced his appointment of the following standing commitees of the
              House of Representatives.
            Committee on Ways and Means--Messrs. Neff, Mitchell, Deirees,
              Wilson, Sansbury, Caldwell, Stone.
            Committee on Benevolent and Scientific Institutions--Messrs.
              Minnick, Devol, Wilson, Defrees, McGowan, Neff, King.
            Committee on Education--Messrs. Abbott, Oatley, Ballenger,
              Ruddell, McDonald, Guthrie, Defrees.
            Committee on Mileage and Accounts--Messrs. Oatley, Hartley, Biggs,
              Montgomery, Taughinbaugh, Deputy, Netherton.
            Committee on Canals--Messrs. Ray, Copner, Cunningham, Hill Hines,
              Major, Hooker.
            Committee on Affairs of the City of Indianapolis--Messrs. Devol,
              Barnaby, Holland, Lines, Martin, of Wayne, Gentry, Weakley.
            Committee on Judiciary--Messrs. McDonald, Neff, Wilson, Cauthorn,
              Friedley, Henderson, Calkins, of Fulton.
          
          
            RULES OF THE HOUSE.
            The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz., the consideration of the report of Mr.
              Wilson, from the Special Committee on Rules, and it was taken up
              and read by the Clerk.
            The several amendments to the Rules of the last House of Representatives reported by
              the special committee were adopted seriatim, with an order that the Rules, as amended,
              take effect on the 13th day of January, and that 250 copies thereof be printed.
          
          
            COUNTY BOARDS--CUMULATIVE BALLOT.
            Mr. TAYLOR introduced a bill [H. R. 35] for an act to amend the 3d section of an act
              entitled an act providing for the organization of County Boards, and prescribing some
              of their powers and duties, approved June 17, 1852; and prescribing the time and
              manner of the election of Boards of County Commissioners, and their term of office.
              (It proposes that County Commissioners shall be elected every two years--that present
              incumbents serve out their term--and that the cumulative ballot be the method of
              voting for them.)
          
          
            THE BALLOT.
            Mr. ZENOR introduced a bill [H. R. 36] for an act to amend section 2 of an act to
              amend certain sections of an act to provide for a registry of voters, approved Mach
              11,1867. [It repeals the numbering of the ballot.]
            Mr. RHODES (by unanimous consent) submitted the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the Committee on the
                      Judiciary is hereby instructed to inquire into the constitutional
                    power of the Legislature to fix by law the rates of fare which shall be
                    collected of passengers, and the rates of charges for freights to be collected
                    by the railroads now being operated in this State or passing into or through the
                    same,  and in their report to discriminate
                    between those companies organized under the general statutes for the
                    incorporation of railroad companies and the acts supplemental thereto and
                    amendatory thereof, and those organized under special acts, and report by bill
                    or otherwise at an early day.
                  And to enable said committee to fully inquire into said matters the Secretary
                    of State is requested to furnish to said committee a statement showing the name
                    of each railroad corporation organized in this State and the date of its
                    organization; also showing the consolidation of all railroad companies and the
                    date of such consolidation, and any other information connected with the subject
                    matter of this resolution that said committee may desire for their
                    information.
                
              
            
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. Inasmuch as the committees are not all appointed to which
              bills on the second reading (which is now the order) shall be referred, I move that
              the House adjourn till 2 o'clock.
            And accordingly the House took a recess till 2 o'clock P.M.
            CORRECTION--The reporter has omitted the following in these
              reports of January 9th Monday.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, introduced a bill [H. R. 12] for an act to repeal the act
              authorizing aid in the construction of railroads by counties and townships.
            The bank shares assessment bill [H. R. 6] introduced on the 6th instant, should have
              been attributed to Mr. Miles, of Sullivan. The name was misspelt in the report.
            The competent witness amendment bill [H. R. 24] was introduced by Mr. Ballenger- not
              his colleague, Mr. Martin, of Wayne.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed the chair at two o'clock, and announced the order of bills on the
              second reading.
            Mr. WARRUM moved, ineffectually, to take up his bill [H. R. 21] to amend the Insane
              act.
            
              CORONERS' JURIES.
              Mr. Zenor's bill [H. R. 2] to amend Sections 4 and 6 of the Coroner's act of May
                27, 1852 was taken up and read the second time, and ordered to the engrossment and
                third reading.
              Mr. Tebbs' bill [H. R. 4] relative to assignments for creditors and prescribing
                powers of the Common Pleas, was read the second time.
            
            
              GRAND JURIES.
              Mr. Warrum's bill [H. R. 5] limiting the powers of Grand Juries was read again and
                referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
            
            
              FEE BILL.
              On motion of Mr. STEPHENSON, his bil [H. R. 1] to regulate the fees of county
                officers was referred to the Committee on Fees and Salaries.
            
            
              BANK STOCK ASSESSMENT.
              Mr. Miles' Bank Stock Aesessment bill [H. R. 6] was read the second time. [It
                proposes the assessment and collection of taxes on bank shares for municipal
                purposes.]
              Mr. MILES desired its engrossment.
              Mr. WILLIAMS moved that it be referred to the Committee on the
                  Judiciary, and it was so ordered.
              On motion of Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, his Fee bill [H. R. 7] was read the second time
                by title and referred to the Committee on Fees and Salaries.
            
            
              DRAINAGE LAW.
              On motion of Mr. CALKINS, his Drainagebill [H. R. 8] and Mr. Woods' repeal
                Drain-age bill [H. R. 21] were read by title, and laid on the table, together with
                the memo-rial on that subject from citizens of St. Joseph county, presented this
                morning.
            
            
              DOG LAW.
              Mr. Browning's Dog bill [H. R. 9] was taken up and read the second time, and
                referred to the Committee on Agriculture.
            
            
              DOMINICA.
              The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz: the consideration of the joint
                resolution from the Senate in relation to the annexation of Dominica to the United
                States. It is a memorial instructing our Senators and requesting our Representatives
                to oppose said annexation.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, proposed to amend in the first resolution by striking out
                all after the word "we," and inserting in lieu words to this effect: "Disapprove in
                any form of the annexation of the Island of San Domingo, or any other territory
                which would involve the outlay of money;" and striking out "Charles Sumner," and
                inserting "D. D. Pratt," in lieu, in the second resolution.
              Mr. MILES moved to lay the resolution on the table; but withdrew it for
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, who said he was credibly informed that a large portion of
                the Republican members here are in harmony with these resolutions, but in their
                present form will be compelled to vote in the negative. His proposition was simply
                to obviate, as far as possible, this difficulty, so that all members of the House
                may vote their sentiments by the adoption of these resolutions. The language of the
                first resolution implies that there is some proposition now before Congress looking
                to the acquisition of the island of San Domingo. That, I think, is a mistake. The
                only thing in relation to this subject before Congress now is a resolution by
                Senator Morton, asking for a Commission to vist that island and report. That is
                all--the protocols for last year for acqusition having been rejected by the Senate.
                I think the scope of the language of the joint resolution is too broad, and I prefer
                to say simply that we are opposed to the acquisition on any terms that will require
                the outlay of money. And I think that this expression embraces all perhaps that was
                originally intended to be . expressed in the resolution. I ask, therefore, that in
                considering this amendment the party in the majority here will consider the position
                in which the minority are placed, and let us have it. Then there is another
                objection to the joint resolution as it stands, which, with the first amendment that
                I have  proposed, can be obviated by striking
                out the word "said," referring to the plan of an-exation. Then, further, I do not
                know why this joint resolution should be sent to Senator Sumner, unless it be on
                account of his late speech against this acquisition; but I must confess, on reading
                that speech, that almost the whole of it is mere bumcomb; the principal portion of
                it being devoted to the treaty, the protical of last year signed by Mr. Babcock--all
                of which must be regarded as immaterial to the question involved in the resolution
                offered by Senator Morton, which, I submit, is a very proper and wise resolution at
                this time. Now, Sir, my next amendment is to refer this joint resolution to the Hon.
                Daniel D. Pratt, a Senator from Indiana, to be by him laid before the Senate of the
                United States; and this, I think, would be in keeping with the dignity of this
                General Assembly. We all know Mr. Pratt to be an honorable, high-minded man and a
                statesman, as evinced in his speeches in the Senate. If the object is to endorse Mr.
                Sumner by sending this resolution to him, I think gentlemen on the opposite side of
                the House will find themselves in rather a paradoxical position when they compare
                Mr. Sumner's course on this San Domingo question, with his course on the acquisition
                of Alaska. I desire to say this further: that, as a general proposition, I am in
                favor of the acquisition of all the territory contiguous or adjacent to the United
                States, at the proper time; but I am not in favor of the acquisition of any
                territory when it involves the outlay of the public money. I believe with those in
                the Democratic party, in 1856, who declared that all the islands of the Atlantic
                ocean naturally belong to the United States. I believe also that the Canadas
                naturally belong to the United States, and that most of these will eventually become
                parts as this great government. So far as the annexation of San Domingo is
                concerned, I am opposed to it, simply upon the ground that it will require an outlay
                of the public money which can not now be justified.
              Mr. NEFF was not desirous of entering at any length into the discussion of this
                question at the present time, but should support the joint resolution as it stands.
                He was opposed to the amendment. He was glad to find that the gentleman from Porter
                was in favor of some such resolution as this, and if he really were in favor of such
                a proposition, Mr. N. thought there could be no better way to manifest it than to
                support this joint resolution without amendment. Mr. N. was not particular as to
                whom this joint resolution should be sent, but as to the Senator from Massachusetts,
                he should think the gentleman from Porter ought to be satisfied. If he had had
                anything to do with the joint resolution, he would have sent it to Senator Thurman,
                of Ohio, who has declared himself distinctly opposed to the acquisition. But he did
                not think that for such trivial cause as this we ought to amend a joint resolution.
                If the people of Indiana are opposed to the annexation of this island, let them say
                so, and let their representatives now fresh from the people, say so. The gentleman
                from Porter had said that this question is not now pending before Congress; but it
                was his impression that there is a joint resolution for this object pending in
                Congress and before the House of Representatives hitherto, if he knew anything about
                it, these annexations of territory have been made by treaty and ratified by the
                Senate. But here it is not so. And the papers say there is a big thing in it--that
                there is money in it--and hence the indecent haste that has marked the progress of
                this business. If gentlemen are in favor of the annexation of San Domingo let them
                stand up and say so, but do not evade the question by objecting to the sending of
                the resolution to Charles Sumner. Republicans should look better to the man who so
                lately and so long has cracked their political whip, He would send it to Charles
                Sumner, because he has proved himself to be a man that can stand up before the
                President of the United States and oppose his pet schemes. He then exhorted the
                House to vote so as to put down this pet scheme. He did not think the House should
                take up time with this question. The Senate having sent us this joint resolution
                purporting that we are opposed to the acquisition of the territory of Dominica, let
                the House respond to it at once. And, as for himself, he would much prefer to send
                it to Sumner; he is entitled to it by conquest.
              Mr. CONNER said his mind could travel back to the time when territory was annexed
                by joint resolution, and referred to the annexation of Texas. He was then opposed to
                annexation, and he was now opposed to annexation of Dominicia, or any territory upon
                any plan that invokes the outlay of money. But it seemed that the gentleman's
                opposition to annexation was confined to a particular plan.
              Mr. GORDON, of Boone, would vote against tabling the amendment, (which would be
                presently moved,) for the reason that there is now pending in Congress a proposition
                for the annexation of Dominica. And he would not endorse that annexation now under
                any circumstances. He was in favor of the amendment, for the reasons stated by the
                gentleman from Porter. But then further, he was opposed to that part of the
                resolution which seems to reflect upon the Senate of the United States. He also
                insisted upon the reference of the resolution to Senator Pratt as proposed by the
                amendment. He then proceeded to defend the propriety of the resolution of Senator
                Morton for a commission to investigate and report the facts.
              Mr. McDONALD had hoped that this resolution would be passed, as it was transmitted.
                He was opposed to this entire San Domingo swindle, in which he understood there
                might be involved about 30 millions of dollars. He preferred, also, to send this
                resolution into the hands of its friends. He knew it was safe in the hands of Mr.
                   Sumner. He did not exactly know how Mr. Pratt
                stands on this question.
              Mr. COPNER thought it necessary to have this resolution passed at once. He could
                see no reason for the opposition to sending the proposition to Mr. Sumner. He was
                opposed to this annexation in any shape.
              Mr. ZENOR demanded the previous question.
              The SPEAKER--The question is, will the House second the demand for the previous
                question? It requires a majority.
              The demand was seconded by the House. The main question, viz, Shall the amendment
                be adopted? was then ordered.
              The yeas and nays were then demanded and ordered thereon, and being taken,
                ressulted--yeas, 47; nays 52.
              
                
                  
                    YEAS--Messrs. Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Butterworth,
                      Calkins of Fulton, Calkins of Porter, Defrees, Deputy, Friedley, Furnas,
                      Gordon of Boone, Heilman, Henderson, Hill, Hooker, Kennedy. King, Kirkpatrick,
                      Knight, Lines, Major, Martin of Wayne, Martin of Putnam. Millikan, Monroe,
                      Myers, Netherton, Rawles, Ray, Rhodes, Ruddell, Sabin, Sayers, Shoenemann,
                      Snodgrass, Stephenson, St. John, Strickland, Taylor, Washburn, Weekly,
                      Williams, White, Wilson, Wymer, Wood and Woodward--47.
                    NAYS--Messrs. Abbett, Britton, Browning, Barnaby, Bruner,
                      Caldwell, Cauthorn, Cogswell, Conner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Devol, Donham,
                      Galletine, Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Case, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Hawley,
                      Haynes, Hendry, Holland, Hynes, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan,
                      Minnick, Miles, Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff, Oatley, Rice, Sansberry, Simpson,
                      Shutt, Stanley, Stephens, Tarlton, Taughinbangh, Tebbs, Walker, Warrum, Zenor
                      and Mr. Speaker--52.
                  
                
              
               So the amendment was rejected, and the question recurred on the adoption of the
                joint resolution.
              Mr. WILLIAMS moved to postpone the further consideration of thet join retolution
                till Saturday.
              The SPEAKER held that the motion could not be made, for the reason that the House
                is under the force of the previous question, which brings the House to the vote on
                the pending amendments, and then to the vote on the main proposition.
              After debate by Mr. WILSON and others on the question of order; Mr. Wilson alleging
                that the force of the previous question terminates with the vote on the amendment;
                the yeas and nays were demanded, ordered and taken on the adoption of the joint
                resolution with the following result:
              
                
                  
                    YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Britton, Browning, Barnaby, Bruner,
                      Caldwell, Coggswell, Conner, Copner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Devol, Donham,
                      Galletine, Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Cass, Gunthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Hawley,
                      Haynes, Henderson, Hendry, Hynes, Logan. Major, McDonald, McDowell,McFarland,
                      McGowan, Minnick, Miles, Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff, Oatley, Ray, Rice,
                      Sansberry, Simpson, Shutt, Stanley, Stephens, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Tebbs,
                      Walker, Washburn, Warrum, Zenor and Mr. Speaker--54.
                    NAYS--Messrs. Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Butterworth,
                      Calkins of Fulton, Calkins of Porter, Defrees, Deputy, Friedly, Furnas, Gordon
                      of Boone, Heilman. Hill, Holland, Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Knight,
                      Lines, Martin of Wayne, Martin of Putnam, Millikan, Monroe, Myers, Netherton,
                      Rawles, Rhodes, Ruddell, Sabin, Sayers, Shoenemann. Snodgrass, Stephenson, St.
                      John. Strickland, Taylor, Weekly, Williams, White, Wilson, Wymer, Wood and
                      Woodard--44.
                  
                
              
              Mr. BELLINGER, when his name was called, said: I sympathize with the main
                propositions of the resolutions, but they are not in such form as to command my
                vote. I am opposed to the entire scheme of this annexation. It may be that I am not
                correctly informed. But it is my impression that these resolutions have been framed
                to cast a censure upon the Senate of the United States, the President and Senator
                Morton.
              Mr. DEFREES. As the resolution is a direct reflection on our Senators, I vote
                no.
              Mr. FRIEDLEY. I regard this resolution in the nature of a censure on our Senators;
                and, therefore, while I am opposed to the annexation of San Domingo, I shall vote
                no.
              Mr. KENNEDY. While I am in favor of the resolution, its wording compels me to vote
                no.
              Mr. KNIGHT. I desire to say that the Senator from Wayne expressed my views
                exactly.
              Mr. MAJOR. I am opposed to the annexation of that island, and I do not very well
                like the wording of the joint resolution. I shall vote aye.
              Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam. I am opposed to the annexation of the Island of San Domingo;
                but I regard this as something more than making that expression--as a fire brand
                designed to effect no good purpose. I shall vote no.
              Mr. MITCHELL. I am not so sensitive as some gentlemen who have risen in these
                explanations. I vote for this resolution because I believe it does censure Governor
                Morton. [Applause from the Democratic benches.] I vote aye.
              Mr. MYERS.--I sincerely regret that I am compelled to vote no on the resolution. It
                violates the courtesy due to our Senators in that it is directed to a Senator from
                another State--and that after an amendment to obviate this has been voted down.
              Mr. NETHERTON. My object in voting for the amendment of the gentleman from Porter,
                was to take away a most unjust and undeserved censure. That amendment being lost, I
                shall vote no on the resolution, for the reason that I believe it a censure against
                the President of the United States and Senator Morton; and I believe the time will
                come when the people of this State and their Representatives here will be in favor
                of annexing that territory to the United States.
              The explanation of the gentleman from Orange was not heard at the desk.
              Mr. RHODES. While I am really opposed to this annexation, I am unwilling, by voting
                for the resolution before the House, to cast a reflection on President Grant and our
                Senators in Congress.
              Mr. RUDDELL. I am not prepared at present to say that I am in favor of the
                substance of this resolution, nor that my constituents would be in favor of it. I
                believe  it is proper to investigate such
                subjects as these in the best light. I am opposed to it for another reason, given in
                the frankness of the gentleman from Monroe (Mr. Mitchell) that this resolution has
                been gotten up by those who wish to get a vote of spleen and partizanship against as
                honorable and worthy men as there are iin the country or in the Senate of the United
                States, and in disregard of the principle recommended in the address from the Chair,
                which was delivered by the Speaker in the organization of this body. We find the
                majority here, right in the outset, insulting the minority by voting an insult to
                our Senators in Congress. I vote No.
              Mr. STEPHENSON. I vote "no" on this resolution, not because I disapprove its
                sentiments, but because of the language used in it.
              Mr. St. John's explanation was not heard.
              Mr. WHITE. While I am opposed to stock jobbing of all kinds, especially where there
                is money--as in the annexation of Alaska or Dominica--I shall be compelled to vote
                "no;" because in voting for it I feel that I shall not represent on this floor the
                majority of my constituents.
              So the joint resolution was declared to be finally passed the House of
                Representatives by yeas 54, nays 44; and it was ordered that the Clerk acquaint the
                Senate thereof.
              The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Governor, announcing
                that John M. Commons, Esq., is authorized to make Executive communications to the
                General Assembly. It was also stated from the Chair that Judge Biskirk tenders to
                the Judiciary Committee the use of the consultation room of the
                Supreme Court, with the request that other members of the House will also avail
                themselves of this offer.
              Mr. SANSBERRY moved the reconsideration of the vote just taken, and to lay his vote
                on the table.
              And then, on motion of Mr. WILSON, the House, at 4 o'clock, adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            WEDNESDAY, January 11, 1871.
          
          The Senate met pursuant to adjournment, under the rule, at 2 o'clock P. M., Lieutenant
            Governor CUMBACK in the Chair.
          The Secretary's journal of yesterday's proceedings was read and approved.
          
            MESSAGES AND COMMUNICATIONS.
            A message was received from the Governor by the hands of Captain J. M. Commons,
              Executive Messenger, transmitting a communication and memorial from A. Gracie King,
              August Belmont, and others, in relation to the Wabash and Erie Canal certificates of
              stock.
            A message from the House of Representatives announced the passage by that body of a
              concurrent resolution for printing 8,000 copies of the Governor's message1,500 in the
              German language, 1,000 copies for the Governor and the remainder for the use of the
              members, and that the correspondence between the Governor and Hendricks, Herd &
              Hendricks be printed therewith.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR laid before the Senate a communication from the Young Men's
              Christian Association rooms, signed by the City Missionary, Rev. John B. Brandt,
              proposing prayer service at the opening of each day's session, without charge to the
              State.
            On motion of Mr. HOOPER, the proposition was accepted.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR also laid before the Senate a communication from the
              Governor, naming Captain John M. Commons Executive Messenger, as heretofore, for the
              current session.
          
          
            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL STOCKS.
            The communication from Messrs. King, Belmont and other New York holders of Wabash and
              Erie Canal stock, with the accompanying message, having been read as follows:
            
              
                
                  EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, INDIANAPOLIS, January 10, 1871.
                  
                    
                      Gentlemen of the Senate and House of Representatives:
                    
                  
                  I yesterday received a communication in writing from A. Gracie King, Esq., and
                    others, acting as a committee on behalf of the holders of the certificates of
                    stock charged upon the Wabash and Erie Canal, transmitting to me copies of a
                    joint memo-B. R.5rial addressed to the General Assembly on behalf of the holders
                    of said certificates of stock, and requesting me to present the same to the
                    General Assembly, accompanied by such remarks upon the claims represented by the
                    committee as I might deem fitting. In compliance with the request contained in
                    the communication, I herewith transmit one copy of the printed memorial to the
                    Senate and another to the House of Representatives:
                  I also transmit herewith a copy of said written communication addressed to
                    myself by said committee to each House of the General Assembly.
                  Having so recently fully presented to you my views on the question involved, I
                    deem it unnecessary now to discuss these questions, except to say that I can not
                    recommend, but will in all proper ways and on all proper occasions oppose the
                    submission of the payment of these canal stocks to any judicial tribunal, State
                    or Federal. The eleventh amendment to the Constitution of the United States
                    prevents the Federal courts from entertaining jurisdiction of a suit against a
                    State, and the consent of the State would not confer such jurisdiction.
                  It may also well be doubted whether under the Constitution of the State, the
                    claims of the holders of these canal stocks could be submitted for adjudication
                    to any of the State Courts. If, however, the proposition were free from all
                    constitutional difficulties the people of Indiana are competent to decide the
                    questions involved for themselves. And nothing should be done to withdraw the
                    decision of these questions from the jurisdiction of the sovereign tribunal.
                  
                    CONRAD BAKER. 
                
              
            
            
              
                
                  OFFICE OF COMMITTEE OF INDIANA BONDHOLDERS. 54 Willian street, New
                    York, Dec. 30, 1871.
                  
                    To His Excellency Conrad Baker, Governor of the State of
                        Indiana:
                  
                  SIR--We have the honor to hand herewith a memorial addressed
                    to the General Assembly of the State of Indiana by the Committee representing
                    the holders of the stock of Indiana, commonly called Wabash and Erie Canal
                    Certificates, and to request of your Excellency to present the same to the
                    General Assembly,accompanied by such remarks upon the claims we represent as you
                    may deem fitting.

                  

                  You will percieve that, in case the General Assembly should not consider itself
                    at liberty to afford such relief as we think the holders are equitably entitled
                    to, we have requested of them to grant us permission to test before some
                    competent tribunal, the question at issue between us.
                  We would add that the holders we represent (and of whom we are prepared to
                    furnish a list) are almost without exception those who were holders of the
                    original bonds surrendered under the acts of 1846-7, and who advanced their
                    money to the State of Indiana in her adversity to enable her to complete the
                    Wabash and Erie Canal, her then popular project of internal improvement.
                  
                    With the highest consideration of respect, we are, sir, your obedient
                      servants,
                    GEO. MOSELE. AUGUST BELMONT. JAMES TINKER. A. GRACIE KING. New York
                      Committee representing the holders of Indiana Canal certificates. By
                      A. GRACIE KING,
                      Chairman
                  
                
              
            
            By Mr. HOOPER moved its reference to the Judiciary Committee.
            Mr. HUGHES made an ineffectual motion to make the reference to the Committee
                on Canals and Internal Improvements.
            The motion to refer the communication to the Judiciary Committee
              was agreed to by yeas 26, nays 22.
          
          
            MISCELLANEOUS.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR laid before the Senate papers in the contested cases of
              Messrs. Bird and Sarninghausen. They were referred to the Committee on
                Elections.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR, by request of the Supreme Bench, made a tender of the use of
              the consultation rooms of the Judges of the Supreme Court to the Judiciary
                Committee of the Senate.
            Mr. BROWN presented a letter from a good old minister of his county, praying that a
              bible and other religious books shall be kept by County Sheriffs for the use of
              prisoners. It was referred to the appropriate committee.
          
          
            RULES AND ORDERS.
            Mr. GLESSNER, from the Committee on Standing Rules of the Senate,
              submitted a report adopting the rules of the session of 1869 with sundry amendments.
              It is as follows:
            The committee to revise the standing rules of the Senate respectfully submit the the
              following report:
            Adopt the standing rules of the Senate special session of 1869, with the amendments,
              to wit:
            Strike out the word two in second line, rule first, and insert the
              word ten, and strike out afternoon in the same line and insert forenoon--also strike out the residue of said line, together with all
              of the third line of said rule.
            Strike out all after the word House in the sixth rule.
            Strike the word twenty-eight in first line of eight rule, and insert thirty-one, and
              add the words by the Senate, immediately after the word appointed in same rule. Also,
              strike out the words, House of Refuge, after the words twenty-eight on page 7 under
              same rule, and insert Reformatory Institution, and also the following words:
            Twenty-nine--On Emigration.
            Thirty--On Insurance.
            Thirty-one--On Railroads.
            Insert after the last words of rule 21, the following endorsed by the Senator
              introducing it, and the name of the author announced by the Secretary before
              reading.
            And the committee respectfully ask that this report be concurred in.
            A. J. GLESSNER, Chairman. 
            Mr. HUGHES moved to amend by striking out rule 17 and inserting the rule of the House
              on the same subject--that no member shall vote on any question in which he may be
              interested. No man ought to have a right to vote upon any question in which he is
              interested, and that is the object of the rule.
            Mr. GRAY should vote for the amendment, but it seems pretty sweeping. There are a
              number of Senasors here who are largely interested in national banks; will this rule
              operate so as to prevent such from voting on a bill taxing bank stock for municipal
              purposes?
            Mr. HUGHES. Certainly. [Laughter.]
            Mr. HOOPER thought on some questions there might be but few members who could vote
              under the rule, and it would be better to let the rule remain as it was last
              session.
            Mr. DWIGGINS moved that this subject lie on the table till day after to-morrow, at 3
              o'clock P. M.
            The motion was agreed to.
          
          
            STATIONERY AND STAMPS.
            Mr. WILLIAMS, from the Special Committee on Stationery and Stamps,
              submitted the following report:
            Mr. President: The committee to whom was referred the resolution in
              relation to stationery for the use of the Senate, beg leave to make the following
              report. The Committee recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the State Librarian be authorized to furnish
                    stationery for the use of the Senate as follows, to wit: That the Principal
                    Secretary of the Senate be authorized to draw such stationery from the Librarian
                    as may be necessary for his use as Secretary of the Senate, That the Assistant
                    Secretary be authorized to draw stationery for his use as Asssistant Secretary
                    of the Senate. That the President of the Senate and each Senator be authorized
                    to draw from the State Librarian such stationery and stamps as may be actually
                    required by them, not exceeding in amount twenty dollars for each Senator.
                
              
            
            Mr. HADLEY desired to amend by insert-serting after the word "Secretary" the words
              "twenty dollars."
            On motion of Mr. GLESSNER the report was concurred in.
            The resolution was then adopted.
          
          
            COMMITTEE BOOMS.
            Mr. HUGHES offered a resolution authorizing the Door Keeper to rent blank number  of rooms near the Capitol for the use of committees
              of the Senate. He said the Superintendent of Public Instruction has offered the
                Committee on Education the use of one of his rooms in the
              building on the opposite side of the street.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved to amend by providing that the Door Keeper be authorized to
              provide such rooms as may be necessary.
            It was so ordered.
          
          
            JOINT CONVENTION.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR announced that in compliance with a joint resolution heretofore
              passed, and in compliance with an invitation from the House of Representatives the
              Senators will please proceed to the hall of the House for the purposes named in the
              joint resolution.
            Thereupon the Senators repaired in a body to the hall of the House of
              Representatives.
            When the Senators returned and order had been restored--
            On motion, it was--
            Ordered that when the Senate adjourns it adjourns till ten o'clock to-morrow.
            And then the Senate adjorned.
          
        

        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            WEDNESDAY, January 11, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.
          Chaplain service by the Rev. Dr. Day.
          The journal of yesterday was read by the Clerk.
          Mr. ABBETT stated that his vote on the Dominica joint resolution yesterday was
            incorrectly reported in the Sentinel, as against the proposition. It
            was correct in the Journal.
          Mr. WILSON corrected what might be the impression from these reports of yesterday. He
            did not make his point of order as against the old standing rules of the House, nor
            against the common parliamentary law, but against the ruling of the Chair as to the
            effect of the previous question on the particular kind of amendment then pending.
          Mr. GORDON would not be understood as reported yesterday, that there is pending in
            Congress a proposition to annex Domingo. If there be pending such a proposition he has
            no knowledge of it.
          
            DOMINICA.
            The SPEAKER announced the consideration of unfinished business, viz: The motion of
              Mr. DEPUTY to reconsider the final vote of yesterday on the Dominica joint resolution
              from the Senate, and lay that question on the table.
            The latter motion was agreed to--yeas, 50; nays, 43.
          
          
            PETITIONS.
            Mr. TAYLOR presented the petition of sundry citizens of Allen county for the
              amendment of the divorce law.
            Also the petition of sundry citizens for a Board of Prison Supervisors, three to be
              women, to serve without other compensation than their necessary expenses; for a law
              for the improvement of county jails; and for an intermediate State Prison.
            Mr. HARDIN presented the petition of sundry citizens of Perry county for extending
              the navigation of Poison Creek.
            Mr. OATLEY presented the petition of citizens for the repeal of the Dog Law.
            These petitions were severally read and referred to= appropriate committees.
          
          
            WILE AND SHOENEMANN CONTEST.
            Mr. CAUTHORN, from the Committee on Elections, submitted a report
              in writing getting forth the facts and the law in the case of Simon Wile contesting
              the seat of William Shoeneman,a sitting member of the House of Representatives for the
              county of Laporte, on the ground that the latter was holding the office of Deputy
              Postmaster at Michigan City at the time of his election, and till he resigned on the
              4th of January, 1871; and that the contestant, Simon Wile, was the only other person
              voted for as Representative for Laporte county by the people of aforesaid county, on
              the 11th of October, 1870. The Committee finding that the contestor was not elected,
              and the contestor was elected, submitted a formal resolution accordingly, ousting
              Shoeneman and admitting Wile, and moving for the reference of their report to the
                Committee on the Judiciary.
            The report was so referred by unanimous consent.
          
          
            RESOLUTION.
            Mr. HAWLEY offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the Doorkeeper be requested
              to procure a list of the names of members of the House, and attach thereto the numbers
              of the seats occupied by each respectively, and post the same up in some convenient
              place in the rear of the Speaker's desk for the use of members, doorkeepers, and
              pages.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            Mr. KENNEDY offered a resolution for a special committee of five, to whom shall be
              referred all propositions in relations to fees and salaries of county officers. The
                Committee on Fees and Salaries, he said, will have too much
              before them to give this subject due consideration. Members of the House were desirous
              of effecting a reform as to the fees and salaries of county officers, and he thought
              it would be wise to have a special committee to thoroughly investigate that
              subject.
            Mr. NEFF knew the anxiety of the public mind for reform in the direction alluded to,
              and there was no member on this floor that would concur more heartily than he in some
              measure of wholesome reform in that matter. Still he thought the resolution ought not
              to be adopted. From what he knew, he had no doubt that some of the ablest and best
              members of the House would be placed on the Standing Cemmittee on Fees and Salaries,
              and that they would be selected with special reference to the subject of reform.
            Mr. STEPHENSON was opposed to the resolution for various reasons. We have a standing
                Committee on Fees and Salaries, and the wisdom of having two
              committees on the same subject did not appear very plainly. He saw not the object of
              the pro-  posed committee, but he knew the object
              of the standing committee, before which this very grave and important subject would
              come, and that standing the committee will be certainly composed of as good men as
              could be placed on any special committee. He had understood that from a certain speech
              of the gentleman from Rush [Mr. Kennedy] it was gathered that he was rather opposed to
              this reform. Then why have him on such a committee?
            Mr. KENNEDY had not intended to cast censure on any committee, but wished a committee
              on this subject that would have no other business. With the standing committee there
              might be some State offices to look into. So far from opposition to reform, as the
              gentleman gathered from his speech, he wished it distinctly understood that he is in
              favor of reform. But, opposed as he was to consuming time here, he would ask leave to
              withdraw the resolution.
          
          
            COMMITTEE CLERK.
            Mr. BARNABY submitted an order which was adopted that the Committee on
                Elections be authorized to employ a clerk, till such time as their
              business shall be completed.
            Mr. STONE submitted a resolution which was adopted, for printing 8,000 copies of the
              Governor's message--1,500 copies in the German language, 1,000 copies for the Governor
              and the remainder for tho use of members and that the correspondence between the
              Governor and Hendricks, Hord & Hendricks be printed therewith.
          
          
            COMMISSIONERS OF THE BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS.
            Mr. MITCHELL submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the Committee
                on Benevolent Institutions inquire into the expediency of abolishing the
              separate Boards of Commissioners of the different institutions and of establishing one
              Board for all such institutions, and report, &c.
          
          
            REFERENCE OF THE GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
            Mr. DUVAL submitted a resolution, which was adopted, referring twelve different
              subjects of recommendation in the Governor's message to appropriate Standing
              committees of the House of Representatives.
            Mr. CAUTHORN offered a preamble and resolution, which was adopted, reciting that,
            
              
                
                  WHEREAS, All the sources of taxation from which revenue is
                    now derived are badly burdened, and the people are demanding and expecting
                    relief; and whereas, a number of insurance companies, organized and controlled
                    without this State, are transacting business within the same, whereby the State
                    is annually drained of millions of dollars in the shape of premiums paid said
                    companies for policies, which is thus withdrawn from the State and ceases to be
                    a source from which revenue can be derived, and,
                  WHEREAS, Said foreign insurance companies now entirely
                    escape taxation upon their business and receipts, therefore,
                  Resolved, That the Committee of Ways and
                      Means is hereby ordered and directed to inquire into the propriety
                    of taxing as other property the gross receipts of all foreign insurance
                    companies doing business in this State and derive through agencies located
                    therein, and to report to this House without delay by bill or otherwise.
                
              
            
          
          
            IMPROVEMENT OF THE WABASH RIVER.
            Mr. CAUTHORN introduced a joint resolution instructing our Senators and requesting,
              our Representative in Congress, to endeavor to obtain an appropriation for the
              improvement of the navigation of the Wabash river. He said he was not much in favor of
              internal improvements by the General Government. But as they have overruled us at
              Washington, and as there is no reason, if the money is to be appropriated, that we
              should not have a part of it, he had offered this resolution. He stated the former
              existence of a company organized for the improvement of the Wabash, but their work had
              been ineffectual. And he stated further, that the object of this joint resolution has
              been, perhaps, unanimously prayed for in all the sections interested.
            The joint resolution was adopted on the part of the House of Representatives, by yeas
              69, nays 28.
          
          
            SINKING FUND.
            Mr. CAUTHORN offered a resolution, which was adopted, for a select committee to
              consider the recommendation of the Governor in regard to the Sinking Fund.
          
          
            RAILROAD SUBSIDIES.
            Mr. MAJOR offered a joint resolution instructing the State's Senators in Congress,
              and requesting her Representatives, to oppose any further donation of the public lands
              for any private object, unless in their judgment the necessity be pressing. He desired
              to call the attention of the General Assembly to this subject at the earliest day he
              could, and to get an expression upon it for the people of Indiana.
            Mr. SANSBERRY moved to strike out from the joint resolution these words: "unless in
              their judgment the necessity be pressing."
            Mr. BIGGS moved to refer the subject to the Committee on Federal
                Relations.
            Mr. MARTIN moved, ineffectually, to lay the motion for reference on the table.
            Mr. BROWNING was in favor of the amendment. We want to make the thing so it can be
              understood. If we leave in the latter clause, Congressmen will always find excuse for
              overriding the will of the people.
            Mr. COX desired that the instructions be made imperative.
            Mr. RUDDELL thought it would make little difference whether these instructions go or
              not; our Senators and Representatives are as fully and as correctly informed and
              instructed now as they can be by this resolution. It seemed to him useless. If there
              had been any great change in the mind of the people since their election there might
              be excuse, but there has not. He understood that the purport of the amendment if to
              cut off all appropriations for corporations, But the time has been, and may be again,
              when such appropriations are necessary and proper. We are all agreed that the public
              lands have been squandered by appropriations for railroads; but let us not for this
              cause cut off wise appropriations for these objects. He counselled the rejection of
              the  amendment and the adoption of the resolution
              as offered.
            Mr. ST. JOHN opposed the motion to refer the subject, and insisted that the House is
              ready to vote. The rascally hands of these corporations have been too long in the
              general treasury, and there are now before Congress bills for the appropriation of
              15,000,000 acres of land.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. The number of these joint resolutions of memorial to Congress
              might be too large. He did not know that the one now before the House was not all
              right and proper. But it seemed to him to be consistent with the dignity of this body
              to refer this resolution to the Committee on Federal Relations. It
              may be true, as the gentleman from Grant [Mr. St. John] says, that there are bills
              before the Congress for the appropriation of fifteen millions of acres of land for
              these purposes; but that fact is no sure indication that any great portion of the land
              in question will be appropriated.
            Mr. ST. JOHN interposed. Was there ever a proposition for that object rejected?
            Mr. CALKINS. Oh, yes; there have been a great many. In reply to the gentleman from
              Marion, I think the pulse of the people as to this question has been freely felt, and
              that there was a fair and full expression of the popular will on this subject in the
              last fall elections.
            Mr. BALLENGER. I think it would comport better with the dignity of this body to act
              deliberately on this question. It may be that some are ready to vote now; and it may
              be that we could all vote intelligently now; but I think the resolution should be
              referred, that it may have due consideration.
            Mr. SANSBERRY. It is a well-known fact that the newspapers all over the land have
              been discussing this question for the last year, and, therefore, I think there is no
              necessity for referring the resolution. I think there is not a man here who would be
              better prepared to vote if the question were postponed two or three weeks. With regard
              to the amendment, I want these instructions to go without condition. When we instruct
              Senators, and request Representatives, I want the instructions to be absolute. I want
              no conditions about it, at least for the present. We are only acting for the present,
              not for the future. We are simply giving the expression for the present time.
            Mr. COPNER. I am as ready now for the vote on this question as I ever shall be. I
              came here with the understanding that I would do something in this matter. Then let us
              adopt this resolution, and do it at once.
            Mr. MAJOR now accepted the amendment of Mr. Sansberry.
            Mr. MILES. I can see no occasion for referring this resolution to the
                Committee on Federal Relations; for that Committee has not yet
              been appointed. There has been a general expression of the people against the
              appropriations of land to corporations, and I can't see the wisdom of postponing or
              delaying our action here. We are already fully advised. There is no member here but
              has discussed this matter before his constituents, and the people are thoroughly
              imbued with the idea that these land grabs should be stopped. Gentlemen say that our
              Congressmen have been selected to carry out the wishes of the people; but I will say,
              that for the last several years they have disregarded the will of the people in this
              particular, and they have voted away land in extent of territory equal to that of nine
              States like the State of Indiana.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, demanded the previous question; but the House refused to second
              the demand.
            Mr. NEFF. The mind of the House seems to be for the adoption of the joint resolution,
              but I take it that there is not one member in ten that understands its purport. I
              regard it as a matter of importance that deserves action, and early action. But let it
              go to the Committee on Federal Relations, that it may have the
              proper phraseology.
            Mr. SNODGRASS. I take it that the phraseology is sufficiently clear. It is not
              improper certainly that we should let our representatives know that we still remember
              their pledges.
            Mr. CALKINS of Fulton. I offer the following amendment:
            
              
                
                  "Resolved by the Souse of Representatives of the State of
                      Indiana, That the resolutions now pending before the House be amended so
                    as to substitute, (if referred to Congress,) the name of the Hon. Charles
                    Sumner, and the Hon. Benjamin F. Butler of the State of Massachusetts, for 'our
                    members in Congress.' " The same being in conformity with the precedent
                    heretofore established by this body.
                
              
            
            The SPEAKER (Mr. Wilson in the chair) ruled the amendment of Mr. Colkins of Fulton,
              to be out of order. The House rejected the motion to refer to the Committee
                on Federal Relations; and then the resolution was adopted (without a
              division), on the part of the House of Representatives.
          
          
            STATUTES FOR MEMBERS.
            Mr. BROWNING submitted an order reciting the duty of the State Librarian, under the
              act of February 19, 1867, and authorizing him to furnish each member of the House with
              a copy of the revised statutes of the State.
            It was adopted.
          
          
            SINKING FUND.
            Mr. CAUTHORN submitted the following:
            
              
                
                  Whereas, His Excellency the Governor of the State in his message, delivered on
                    the 6th instant, informs the General Assembly that of the Sinking Fund there is
                    money on hand in the sum of $550,916 80, and has made certain recommendations on
                    the subject. Therefore,
                  Resolved, That a select committee of seven be appointed to
                    investigate and ascertain in whose custody and keeping said money now is, how
                    long the same has been on hand, where deposited or kept, what compensation or
                    remuneration, if any, has been received for daily balances from said money, if
                    deposited with any bank or banks, broker or brokers, or other corporation, or
                    for the use thereof if loaned or used by any person  or persons, or corporation, and who received the
                    same, and to require the actual production of said money on hand and count the
                    same, and for this purpose said committee is authorized and empowered to send
                    for persons land papers, and invested with full power to enforce all necessary
                    orders to properly discharge said duty, and to report the result of such
                    investigation to this House at an early day during the session.
                
              
            
            It was adopted.
          
          
            JOHN O. HARDESTY.
            Mr. ST. JOHN submitted an order, which was adopted, that John O. Hardesty, assistant
              clerk of the last House of Representatives, be allowed five days pay and mileage for
              assistance rendered by him at the organization of this House.
          
          
            WILLIAM H. BURKE.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, submitted an order, which was adopted, that William H. Burke,
              assistant doorkeeper of the last House of Representatives, be allowed pay for three
              days and mileage for assistance rendered by him in the organization of this House.
          
          
            BILLS INTRODUCED.
            Mr. KENNEDY introduced a bill [H. R. 37] for an act providing and prescribing the
              mode of the sale of real estate under judgment and execution, on a credit of one and
              two years. (Ten per cent interest.)
          
          
            TRUSTEES OF GOSPORT.
            Mr. GUTHRIE introduced a bill [H. R. 38] for an act to legalize the official acts of
              the Board of Trustees of the town of Gosport, in Owen county, under an act
              incorporating said town, approved June 11, 1852. [The acts of said Board of Trustees
              are in relation to their order for the assessment and collection of school taxes, and
              taxes for other purposes, for the year 1870.]
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, moved to suspend the rules and constitutional provision
              requiring bills to be read on three several days, and that this bill be put now on its
              final passage.
            The motion was agreed to--yeas 68, nays 28--two-thirds having voted in the
              affirmative, and then the bill finally passed the House of Representatives--yeas 91,
              nays 2.
            Pending these proceedings, the SPEAKER announced the following appointments:
            Special Committee on Reform School Contract--Messrs. Furnas,
              Michell, Conner, Minnich and Martin.
            Committee on Sinking Fund--Messrs. Cauthorn, Taggart, Martin of
              Putnam, St. John. Haynes, Caldwell and Conner.
            The House then took a recess till 2 o'clock, P.M.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed at two o'clock and announced the order for the introduction of
              bills.
            Mr. WARRUM introduced a bill [H. R. 39] for an act to legalize the acts of the
              Trustees of the town of Fortville, in Hancock county.
            
              WABASH AND ERIE CANAL STOCK.
              A message was received from the Governor, by Mr. Commons, his Private Secretary,
                transmitting documents relating to the Wabash and Erie Canal stock. [See Senate
                proceedings above.]
              Mr. STONE introduced a bill [H. R. 40] for an act to amend section 7, chapter 170,
                of an act for the election, and prescribing the duties, of Supervisors of Highways,
                approved March 5, 1859.
              Mr. LINES introduced a bill [H. R. 41] for an act to amend sections 3, 10, and 26,
                of an act relative to descents and the apportionment of estates. Approved May
                14,1852.
              Mr. CURTIS introduced a bill [H. R. 42] for an act to amend section 10 of the act
                to authorize County Commissioners to authorize turnpike companies where three-fifths
                of the residents petition for the same.
              Mr. GORDON, of Cass, introduced a bill [H. R. 43] for an act to provide for holding
                property in Roman Catholic churches, seminaries, colelges, etc. [The priest or
                pastor to unite with himself two laymen to be trustees of the congregation.]
              Mr. DEPUTY offered an order which was adopted inviting the Senate to the joint
                convention for the election of officers heretofore fixed by the concurrent
                resolution, at 2 1/2 o'clock this afternoon, and that the Senate be notified of this
                action of the House.
              On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS the House then took a recess for the preparation of the
                Hall.
            
            
              IN CONVENTION.
              At the hour of 2 1/2 o'clock the SPEAKER resumed, and Senators were seated on the
                right--the Lieutenant Governor presiding in joint convention of the two Houses of
                General Assembly.
              Mr. Senator DWIGGINS submitted a resolution to the effect that the pay fixed for
                the public printing is excessive; that the office should be abolished and that the
                time of the election of State Printer be postponed four weeks.
              Mr. Senator HUGHES submitted the point of order, that the resolution can not be
                entertained, because this is a joint convention for the purpose of electing
                officers, and it has no legislative power.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The point is well taken in part, and in part not. The
                resolution to abolish the office of Public Printer is clearly out of order; but that
                part which proposes to postpone his election might be entertained.
              Mr. HUGHES. It is not in the power of this Convention to perpetuate its own
                existence, or to enlarge or restrain its powers. We are appointed to meet here and
                to elect certain officers; and we must elect these officers. It is the direction of
                the Legislature. We have no right to say we will not conform to the order passed by
                both Houses.
              The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. The Chair is not clear, but will decide the point well taken.
                It is a rule of the Senate, it is in accordance with universal custom and sound
                parliamentary usage, that a convention called for a specific purpose can perform no
                other act. The Chair will rule the resolution out of order. The Clerk will read the
                   concurrent resolution calling this
                Convention.
              The resolution was read. It prescribes the election of such officers as are to be
                elected by this General Assembly, excepting Agent of State.
              The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. Gentleman of the Senate and House of Representatives: We are
                met in Convention in compliance with this resolution, which has been adopted by both
                Houses of the General Assembly.
              And then, after a call of the Convention in both Hoses, the nominations and
                elections proceeded, with the following results:
            
            
              STATE PRINTER.
              R. J. Bright received 78 votes.
              L. W. Hasselman received 71 votes, as follows:
              Senators voting for Mr. Bright were:
              
                
                  
                    Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown, Carnahan, Cave, Denbo,
                      Dittemore, Dougherty, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg, Henderson, Hughes,
                      Johnson, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan, Rosebrough, Sarninghausen, Stroud and
                      Williams--25.
                  
                
              
              Senators voting for Mr. Hasselman were:
              
                
                  
                    Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Case, Caven, Collett, Dwiggins, Elliott,
                      Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard, Martindale,
                      Miller, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--24.
                  
                
              
              Representatives voting for Mr. Bright were:
              
                
                  
                    Messrs. Abbett, Britton, Browning, Barnaby, Bruner, Caldwell, Cauthorn,
                      Coggswell. Copner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Devol, Donham, Gallentine, Gentry,
                      Goble, Gordon of Cass, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Hawley, Haynes, Henderson,
                      Hendry, Holland, Hynes, Logan, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan,
                      Minnick, Miles, Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff, Oatley, Ray, Rice, Robertson,
                      Sansberry, Simpson, Shutt, Stanley, Stephens, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Tebbs,
                      Walker, Warrum, Zenor and Mr. Speaker--53.
                  
                
              
              Representatives voting for Mr. Hasselman were:
              
                
                  
                    Messrs. Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, W. W. Butterworth, Calkins of Fulton,
                      Calkins of Porter, Conner, Defrees, Deputy, Friedley, Furnas, Gordon of Boone,
                      Heilman, Hill, Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kilkpatrick, Knight, Lines, Major,
                      Martin of Wayne, Martin of Putnam, Millikan, Monroe, Myers, Netherton, Rawles,
                      Rhodes, Ruddell, Sabin, Sayers, Shoenemann. Snodgrass, Stephenson, St. John,
                      Stone, Strickland, Taylor, Washburn, Weekly, Williams, White, Wilson, Wymer,
                      Wood and Woodard--47.
                  
                
              
              It was declared by the Chair that Richard J. Bright is elected State Printer.
            
            
              CANAL TRUSTEE.
              James V. Mitchell, of Martinsville, received 80 votes. Mr.Milroy received 69 votes.
                James V. Mitchell was declared to be elected.
            
            
              STATE LIBRARIAN.
              James De Sanno, of Cochran, Dearborn county, received 78 votes. Mr. McLone received
                71 votes. James De Sanno was declared to be elected.
            
            
              DIRECTORS OF THE SOUTHERN PRISON.
              Capt. John Kirk, of Madison, and Gen. Levi Sporks, of Jeffersonville, were elected
                for four years, and Ed. Price, of Sullivan county, for two years. Gen. Sparks
                against his competitor, Geo. C. Clark--Kirk and Price having no competition.
            
            
              DIRECTORS OF NORTHERN PRISON.
              Gotthelf Block, of Valpraiso, James J. Smiley, of Greencastle, and Wilson. B.
                Loughbridge, of Peru, were elected against J. W. Hart, W. Bland and A. D.
                Hamrick.
            
            
              TRUSTEE FOR THE SOLDIERS' HOME.
              Ellison Williams, of Knightstown, received 76 votes, against his competitor,
                Charles S. Hubbard, who received 66 votes, and was declared to be elected.
              Mr. Representative GUTHRIE offered an order, which was adopted, that when this
                joint convention is adjourned, it shall stand adjourned till four weeks from this
                day at 2 1/2 oclock, P. M., if the office of Agent of State be not previously
                abolished; and if otherwise, then sine die.
              And then the joint convention adjourned.
              The Speaker resumed the chair.
              On motion of Mr. NEFF, Mr. Abbett obtained leave of absence for to-morrow.
              On motion of Mr. DEPUTY, it was ordered that when the House adjourns it shall be
                till to-morrow morning at ten o'clock.
              And then, on motion of Mr. GORDON, of Boone, at 5:05 o'clock the House
                adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORT.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            THURSDAY, January 11, 1871.
          
          The Senate met pursuant to adjournment at 10 o'clock A. M.--Lieutenant Governor CUMBACK
            in the chair.
          The Secretary's journal of yesterday's proceedings were being read--when, by consent,
            at the suggestion of Mr. HUGHES, the further reading thereof was dispensed with.
          
            THE WABASH RIVER.
            On motion by Mr. TAYLOR the joint resolution [H. R. 4] instructing Senators and
              requesting Indiana's Representatives in Congress to use all honorable means to secure
              an appropriation for the improvement of the Wabash river, was read and considered by
              the Senate.
            Mr. TAYLOR moved the adoption of the joint resolution.
            The yeas and nays being required by a constitutional provision, they were ordered,
              and being taken resulted--yeas 48, nays 0.
            So the joint resolution [H. R. 4] was finally passed the General Assemby of
              Indiana.
          
          
            TAX EQUALIZATION.
            Mr. DITTEMORE, by leave, offered the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the Auditor of State be requested to furnish
                    the Senate with a list of all the counties in this State that placed upon their
                    respective tax duplicate the additional per cent, upon real estate as provided
                    by the last State Board of Equalization, and also the counties that failed or
                    refused so to do--and report without delay.
                
              
            
          
          
            SOLDIERS OF 1812.
            On motion by Mr. GRAY, the joint resolution [H. R.] for instruction and request to
              Congressmen from Indiana to favor the passage of a bill granting pensions to soldiers
              of the war of 1812, was taken up, and being read.
            It was finally passed by yeas 48, nays 0.
             Mr. HUGHES demanded the regular order of business.
          
          
            MARSH LANDS.
            Mr. WADGE and Mr. HUBBARD presented petitions from citizens of Lake and St. Joseph
              counties respectively, praying for the repeal of the drainage law--providing for the
              reclamation of wet and overflowed lands. They were referred to the Chairman on
              Corporations.
          
          
            COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
            Mr. DENBO submitted the following.
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the Committee on County and Township
                      Business be, and they hereby are instructed to inquire into the
                    propriety of abolishing the Board of County Commissioners, and that the said
                    committee be, and they hereby are, requested to report by bill or otherwise, at
                    an early day of this General Assembly.
                
              
            
            The resolution was rejected.
          
          
            ELECTION OF TRUSTEES.
            Mr. HENDERSON offered a concurrent resolution, which was adopted, as follows:
            
              
                
                  Be it Resolved by the Senate of the State of Indiana, the
                    House of Representatives concurring, That the two Houses shall proceed by
                    concurrent vote, on Friday, the 13th, at 3 o'clock P. M., to choose a Trustee
                    for the Asylum for the Blind, a Trustee for the Institution for the Education of
                    the Deaf and Dumb, and a Commissioner for the Hospital for the Insane, under and
                    in compliance with the provision of an act "approved March 5th, 1859.
                
              
            
          
          
            DELINQUENT TAXES.
            Mr. FULLER submitted a resolution:
            
              
                Resolved, That the Committee on Finance
                  inquire what legislation is necessary to enable the County Treasurers to collect
                  the delinquent taxes, and report by bill or otherwise.
              
            
            It was adopted.
            Mr. DITTEMORE offered a resolution authorizing the appointment by the Chair of a
                Committee of three on Mileage and Accounts.
            It was adopted.
            The LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR made the Committee to consist of Messrs. Dittemore, Wood and
              Williams.
          
          
            NEWSPAPERS.
            Mr. CAVE offered a resolution as follows:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the Doorkeeper of the Senate be authorized to
                    contract for and deliver to the Lieutenant-Governor and each Senator, and each
                    elective officer of the Senate one copy each of the Daily
                      Sentinel, Journal and Commercial; six
                    copies of each of the Weekly Sentinel, Journal, Telegraph and Volksblatt, to be wrapped and
                    stamped, provided the same will publish a correct report of the proceedings of
                    the Legislature.
                
              
            
            Mr. SARNINGHAUSEN moved to amend by adding one copy of the Daily Telegraph.
            Mr. HUGHES moved to amend by adding that the Senate may discontinue the subscription
              at pleasure.
            Mr. DITTEMORE accepted the amendment.
            Mr. DWIGGINS made an ineffectual motion to table the whole subject and make it the
              special order for some future day.

            

            Mr. SARNINGHAUSEN'S amendment was agreed to.
            On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE one copy of the Daily News was included in the
              resolution.
            On motion by Mr. CAVEN one copy of the Semi-Weekly American was
              added.
            The resolution as amended was adopted.
          
          
            SOLDIERS OF 1861.
            Mr. GREGG submitted a joint resolution, [S. 4,] instructing and requesting our
              Representatives in Congress to make all proper exertions to procure the passage of a
              law allowing every soldier and seaman, (their widows or orphans,) who served 90 days
              or over in the war of the great rebellion of 1861, and who were honorably discharged,
              160 acres, of the public lands subject to sale, including alternate reserved sections
              along the lines of railroads.
            Mr. HADLEY, remarking that it would work injustice to soldiers, and that it would
              grant as large a pension to those who served ninety days as those who served during
              the war, moved that it be referred to the Committee on Military
                Affairs.
            The motion was agreed to.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The following bills were read the first time and passed to the second reading:
            By Mr. BEESON [S. 24], authorizing plank, gravel and macadamized road companies to
              levy a road tax in their respective districts.
            By Mr. FULLER [S. 25], regulating the terms of the Circuit Court in the Fifteenth
              Judicial Circuit, and making all processes returnable thereto.
            By Mr. GREEN [S. 26], to amend sections 1, 3, 4, 6, 9,11 and 12 of the act of March
              11, 1867, for the reclaimation of wet and undrained lands. One hundred copies were
              ordered printed.
            By Mr. DWIGGINS [S. 27], to amend section 580 of the practice act.
            By Mr. BRADLEY [S. 28], to amend the act organizing the Supreme Court--for creating
              an additional Judge.
            By Mr. BIRD [S. 29] a printed bill to provide for the holding by Roman Catholic
              churches of cemetaries, colleges, and other property.
            By Mr. BEARDSLEY [S.30] supplemental to the act enabling the improvement by
              incorporated towns of streets, alleys, etc., approved April 27, 1869.
            By Mr. GRAY [S. 31] to provide for the payment, of certain stocks and bonds of
              Indiana therein mentioned2 1/2 per cents.
            By Mr. GLESSNER [S. 32] to fix time of holding the Circuit Court in the Twenty-eighth
              Judicial Circuit--gives Shelby county an 8 weeks term; Bartholomew 9 and 6, Johnson 4
              and Brown 1 week.
            By Mr. WADGE [S. 33] to repeal the act to authorize and encourage the construction of
              levees and drains and for the reclaimation of wet lands, which took effect without
              Executive approval, May 22, 1869.
            By Mr. MORGAN [S. 34] to amend the act--amending the 40th clause of section 30 of the
              Evansville city charter.
            By Mr. STEELE [S. 35] to amend section 207 of the Practice act, approved June 18,
              1852, by adding to this section, which authorizes changes of venue in civil causes,
              these words: "in accordance with the provisions of this act," and by adding to the
              third clause these words: "but the court or judge trying the cause may grant or refuse
              to change the venue of any cause at his discretion, when the application is made upon
              this third specifications of causes."
            By Mr. DENBO [S. 36] prescribing the duties of County Auditors in the matter of
              making out delinquent lists and prescribing compensation for publishing the same.
            By Mr. BRADLEY [S. 37] to amend an act entitled--An Act districtiag the State for the
              purpose of selecting four Judges of the Supreme Court, approved February 19, 1852, and
              creating the Fifth District.
            It provides that--
            The counties of Wabash, Huntington. Allen, Whitley, DeKalb, Noble, Lagrange, Steuben,
              Kosciusko, Elkhart, Fulton, Marshall, St. Joseph, Starke, Laporte, Porter and Lake
              shall constitute the First District.
            It provides that the counties of Scott, Jefferson, Switzerland, Ohio, Dearborn,
              Ripley, Jennings, Floyd, Franklin, Clarke, Fayette, Union. Wayne, Henry. Randolph,
              Delaware, Jay, Blackford, Wells and Adams shall constitute the Second District.
            The counties of Monroe, Green, Sullivan, Knox, Daviess, Lawrence, Martin, Gibson,
              Pike, Dubois, Orange, Washington, Brown, Jackson, Bartholomew, Harrison, Crawford,
              Perry, Spencer, Warrick, Vanderburg, and Posey shall constitute the Third
              District.
            The counties of Tippecanoe, Benton, Newton, Jasper, White, Pulaski, Carroll, Cass,
              Clinton, Warren, Fountain, Montgomery, Vermillion, Parke, Putnam, Vigo, Clay and Owen,
              shall constitute the Fourth District.
            The counties of Rush, Decatur, Shelby, Johnson, Morgan, Hancock, Marion, Hendricks,
              Boone, Hamilton, Madison, Tipton, Howard, Grant and Miami, shall constitue the Fifth
              District.
            SEC. 6. It is hereby declared that an emergency exists for the taking effect of this
              act, this act shall therefore take effect and be in force from and after its
              passage.
            By Mr. MARTINDALE [S. 38] to amend the act to exempt property from sale in certain
              cases, approved February 1, 1852 exempting property in value not exceeding $500.
            By Mr. WILLIAMS [S. 39] amendatory of an act accepting the provisions of the Act of
              Congress of March 6,1865, making an appropriation in aid of Agricultural Colleges, and
              providing for an increase of trustees of the Purdue University, by adding four members
              of the State Board of Agriculture to be appointed by the Governor, on recommendation
              of the State Board of Agriculture.
            These bills were read the first time and severally passed to the second reading.
            And then came a recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the Chair a 2 o'clock P. M.
            By consent the Senate pursued the order pending at the time of the noon recess.

            

            
              BILLS FOR ACTS
              were introduced, read the first time and severally passed to the second reading,
                to-wit:
              By Mr. MARTINDALE [S. 40] to amend the 34, 37, 39, and other sections of the common
                school law of March 6, 1865, and adding supplemental sections thereto.
              By Mr. MARTINDALE [S. 41] to amend the 5, 6, 7, 16, 17, 35, 110, and other sections
                of the common school law of March 9, 1865.
            
            
              WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR then announced the special order for this hour--2 1/2
                o'clock P. M.--being Mr. Brown's joint resolution [S. 1] declaring that the State
                will make no provision for the payment of the principal or interest of the old
                internal improvement bonds, except as provided in the acts of 1846-7.
              Mr. BROWN. Mr. President: For some months past there has been no little
                apprehension in the minds of the people of this State because of the supposed
                possibility of this General Assembly purchasing the Wabash and Erie Canal, and
                assuming in payment therefor the payment of the canal bonds, the payment of which is
                now charged exclusively upon said canal, its lands, tolls and revenues. This
                apprehension has been caused by the press, by speeches of public men, and by
                resolutions of political parties. To quiet the public mind upon this subject, and
                that this General Assembly may make known its position in this regard, are the
                reasons which induced me to offer the resolutions now pending before the Senate.
              In early times the subject of internal improvement was one that commanded very
                general public attention. It was a question discussed in Indiana in almost every
                political campaign from 1825 to 1847, and the success of the internal improvement
                system was made so apparent by its great advocate, the Whig party, that that party
                was enabled to carry every general election in this State from 1825 to 1843.
              In 1836 the General Assembly passed "an act to provide for a general system of
                internal improvements." This act provided for the constructing of the White Water
                Canal, the Central Canal and an extension of the Wabash and Erie Canal from the
                mouth of Tippecanoe river down the Wabash Valley to Terre Haute, and thence by a
                route surveyed on Eel river so as to connect with the Central Canal at a point
                designated in said survey, or else by the most practicable route from Terre Haute so
                as to connect with the Central Canal at or near the mouth of Black Creek in Knox
                county. Also the building of a railroad from Madison through Columbus, Indianapolis
                and Crawfordsville to Lafayette; The building of a MacAdamized turnpike road from
                New Albany to Vincennes; To cause a re- survey of the route from Jeffersonville to
                Crawfordsville for the purpose of ascertaining the practicability of building a
                railroad or MacAdamized road on said route; To cause a survey and estimate to be
                made for a canal if practicable, if not a railroad from the Wabash and Erie Canal at
                Fort Wayne to Lake Michigan at or near Michigan City, to be called the Erie and
                Michigan Canal or railroad.
              The act appropriated large sums of money to commence and carry on the construction
                of these public works. It also appropriated the sum of fifty thousand dollars for
                the removal of obstructions to navigation in the Wabash river, between its mouth and
                the town of Vincennes.
              The seventh section of the act provided for an internal improvement fund, to be
                used exclusively in the construction of these public works. The fund was to consist
                of all the moneys raised by the sale of stocks, of all the moneys raised by virtue
                of the loans authorized by law, of all appropriations then made or thereafter to be
                made for internal improvement purposes, of all the proceeds or moneys derived from
                the tolls and rents of said public works, and of all grants or donations received
                from individuals to aid in their completion, together with all the profits and
                interests which may accrue from their construction in any manner whatever.
              The eighth section of the act authorized and required the Canal Fund Commissioners,
                on behalf of the State, to contract at such times as they might be directed by the
                Board of Internal Improvement for a loan or loans, from time to time, in all not
                exceeding the sum of ten millions of dollars, on a credit of twenty-five years, at a
                rate of interest not exceeding five per cent, per annum.
              The ninth section of the act providing for the payment of said loan, is as
                follows:
              "For the punctual payment of the interest and final redemption of the principal of
                all sums of money which may be borrowed under the provisions of this act, there
                shall be and are hereby irrevocably pledged and appropriated, the canals, rail and
                turnpike roads, with the portions of ground thereunto appertaining, and privileges
                thereby created, and the rents and profits of the water power thereof, together with
                the net proceeds of tolls collected thereon, the sufficiency of which
                  for the purposes aforesaid, the State of Indiana doth hereby irrevocably
                  guarantee."
              The tenth section authorized the Canal Commissioners to borrow not exceeding the
                sum of $500,000, the proceeds of which were to be applied in finishing that part of
                the Wabash and Erie Canal which lies between the Ohio State line and the mouth of
                Tippecanoe River. And the section further provides:
              "And for the punctual payment of the principal and interest on said loan or loans,
                the said carnal, when constructed, its tolls, its interest and profits derived
                therefrom, and the proceeds of the canal lands are hereby pledged, the
                  sufficiency of which to pay the interest and principal of said loan or loans, as
                  the same shall become due, the State hereby guarantees."
              Thus it is that the debts created by the general internal improvement bill of 1886
                were charged, first, upon the several public works contemplated in the act,
                including the Wabash and Erie Canal and the lands appropriated to aid in its
                construction, the rents and profits of their water powers, together with all their
                tolls, proceeds and rev-  enues. Second, the
                State by the bill was made a guarantor that these several public works, together
                with their proceeds, tolls and revenues would be sufficient for the punctual payment
                of the interest and final redemption of the principal of all loans incurred under
                the bill. It was confidently expected by both borrower and lender that the public
                works would pay the debt, and that the State would not be called upon to pay any
                part of it. Hence the lender was willing to invest his moneys in the internal
                improvement stocks, taking the State as a guarantor for their payment in case of the
                insufficiency of the internal improvement works to pay them. And the fact that the
                internal improvement works were first pledged for the payment of the internal
                improvement debt, and that the State only stood in the relation of a guarantor that
                they would be sufficient to pay the same had much to do in making the compromise and
                settlement of the debt in 1846 and 1847.
              The object hoped to be accomplished, and the benefits hoped to be derived from the
                internal improvement system was, that there would be a sufficient amount of money
                derived from the tolls, revenues and proceeds of the internal improvement works, not
                only to maintain and carry them on and pay the debt that was incurred in their
                construction, but that enough would be left after all that was accomplished, to
                provide for the payment of the expenses of the State Government; that the State of
                Indiana would be supported by a system of internal improvements so perfect and
                complete, and of much great profit and advantage, that her citizens for all time to
                come would be spared the unwelcome presence of tax gatherers. This must have been a
                delightful anticipation for the Whig party, that fastened this system upon the
                State. Imagine a State supporting its Executive Department, a State maintaining its
                judiciary, a State carrying on its Legislative Department, a State providing for its
                asylums, its benevolent institutions, its prisons and its system of education, a
                State giving security, prosperity and happiness to its people, a State independent
                of the great burden of taxation, and accomplishing the great purpose for which it
                was created. Delightful, indeed, must have been the thought, and happy the dreams of
                the early Whigs, that they would leave to their posterity such a State.
              In 1841 a change took place. The idea that the internal improvement system was to
                bring about such happy results to the people of Indiana was discovered to be a
                delusion and not a reality. The people found they were in debt upwards of ten
                millions of dollars, and that they were unable to pay even the interest upon it.
                They awoke to the reality that the internal improvement system instead of conferring
                the promised advantages, resulted in imposing a great burden upon them. This caused
                a reaction in public sentiment. At the next general election thereafter the
                advocates of that system were displaced from power, and it became as unpopular and
                as much despised as it had been, popular and favored.
              The internal improvement system broke down in 1839, and from 1841 to 1846 no
                interest was paid on the internal improvement bonds. The holders of the internal
                improvement bonds became clamorous for their dues. They became convinced that if
                they got anything for their bonds the State would have, to pay it. Negotiations with
                the State for an adjustment of the debt was inaugurated. The holders of these bonds,
                through their selected and empowered agent, made a proposition of compromise and
                settlement of the whole internal improvement debt. Indiana, by her Legislature,
                accepted the proposition, and it is embodied in the funded debt bills of 1846 and
                1847, commonly known as the "Butler bills." By the compromise and settlement the
                Wabash and Erie Canal, together with all the lands the General Government had
                donated to the State to aid in its construction, all materials provided for its
                construction, all moneys due the State on account of it or its lands were to be
                conveyed and transferred to a Board of Trustees, in trust for the holders of the
                Internal Improvement Bonds in absolute payment and discharge of one half of the
                principal and interest of the debt. For the payment of the other half of the debt
                the State was to issue certificates of stock, payable at the pleasure of the State
                after twenty years. It was also a part of the settlement that the holders of the
                Internal Improvement bonds should complete the canal to the city of Evansville.
              The ninth section of the act of January, 1847, expressly declared "that bonds to
                the amount of five millions five hundred and forty-five thousand dollars, exclusive
                of interest, should be surrendered for exchanges and cancellation to the Agent of
                State, by the first day of July next," and in case said bonds were not surrendered
                "every clause, proviso, matter and thing therein and herein respectively contained
                shall cease, determine and be utterly void." This, as well as all the other
                conditions and stipulations of the acts of 1846 and 1847, were complied with. The
                requisite number of bonds were surrendered to the Agent of State, and the necessary
                steps taken toward the completion of the canal to Evansville.
              Upon the surrender of the internal improvement bonds the State issued stock for
                one-half of the principal and interest of the debt. That which the State issued on
                account of the principal of the debt was a five per cent, interest bearing stock,
                the interest payable semi-annually in New York. The stock issued by the State on
                account of interest due on the debt was a two and one-half interest bearing stock,
                interest payable semi-annually in New York.
              For the other half of the principal and interest of the debt, certificates of stock
                were issued and exclusively charged upon the Wabash and Erie Canal, its lands,
                tolls, revenues and effects appertaining thereto, and  the State was in no manner to be liable for the payment
                of these stocks.
              On the 31st day of July, 1847, the Goxernor of the State, in pursuance of these
                acts of settlement, conveyed the Canal in perpetuity and the lands in fee simple to
                the Board of Trustees in trust for the bondholders, "to have, hold, possess and
                enjoy the same as fully and as absolutely as the State could do!" And they accepted
                the same in full payment and discharge of one-half of the debt.
              The State and her creditors each having a desire to adjust and compromise the
                public debt with fidelity and honesty, and to make a final settlement of the then
                embarassing question in order that the prosperity and advancement of the State need
                not be longer retarded, complied with all the requirements of the funded debt bills,
                and each was fully satisfied with the arrangement. It gave confidence to the
                creditor, honor and credit to the State, happiness and prosperity to the people. The
                State has redeemed almost all of her bonds, and it is to be hoped that ere long she
                will be entirely free from the embarrassments that came upon her by reason of the
                internal improvement system.
              The question for us now to consider is, shall we undo what was done in 1846-47?
                Shall we change the compromise and settlement then made? Shall we take back the
                Wabash and Erie Canal, and for and in behalf of the State assume the payment of the
                Canal Bonds which are exclusively charged upon the canal, thereby assuming the
                payment of a debt of some fifteen millions of dollars, which was cancelled
                twenty-five years ago? If by the acts of 1846-47 and their acceptance by her
                creditors, the State was released from all liability to pay that portion of the debt
                charged upon the canal, then in my opinion there can be no claim founded on right or
                justice that will demand Its assumption by the State. That the acts of 1846-7
                relieve the State from all liabilty, morally or otherwise, to pay that portion of
                the debt charged upon the canal I think there can not be a doubt.
              Prior to the year 1846 there had been no provision made that taxes should be levied
                and collected to pay any part of the public debt occasioned by the internal
                improvement system. At that time the payment of the internal improvement debt was
                first charged upon the public improvement works, their rents, profits and proceeds.
                The language of the internal improvement bill of 1836, as I have here stated, is as
                follow :
              "For the punctual payment of the interest and final redemption of the principal of
                all sums of money which may be borrowed under the provisions of this act there shall
                be and are hereby irrevocably pledged and appropriated the canals, rail and turnpike
                roads with the portions of ground thereunto appertaining, and privileges thereby
                created, and the rents and profits of the water power thereof, together with the net
                proceeds of the water power thereon the sufficiency of which for the purposes
                aforesaid the State of Indiana doth hereby irrevocably guarantee."
              The position the State occupied to all of the bonds issued under the internal
                improvement acts was that of a guarantor that the internal improvement works, their
                lands, revenues, tolls, and proceeds, including the Wabash and Erie Canal, would be
                sufficient to pay the Internal Improvement bonds. It was expected by the creditor
                when he loaned his money that he would be paid out of the public works, and not out
                of a fund to be raised by taxation; hence he did not require that the State should
                be his paymaster in the first instance. He was content with the State guaranteeing
                that his debt would be paid. The ordinary rules and regulations fixing the liabity
                of a guarantor would have required the holders of the Internal Improvement Bonds to
                have exhausted the internal improvement works and all their proceeds before they
                could have justly called upon the State by taxation to pay the bonds. But in 1846,
                when the public debt was compromised and settled, the State changed her relation
                from guarantor for the payment of the whole debt to that of actual debtor for
                one-half of it. The creditors gladly released the State from all liability for the
                payment of one-half of the debt by taking the most valuable part of the public works
                for it, and upon condition that the State would at once become primarily liable for
                and by taxation raise a fund and apply that fund to the prompt payment of the other
                half of it. Thereupon the State solemnly pledged her faith that she would promptly
                pay the interest and principal of one half of the then existing debt and to enable
                her so to do it was made a legislator enactment that there should be levied and
                collected each year a property tax of twenty-five cents on each one hundred dollars
                of the taxables of the State, and seventy-five cents on each poll, for the purpose
                of securing a fund sufficient to entirely liquidate this deb at maturity. This was
                the great object the creditors had in view in securing the passage of the funded
                debt bills of 1846-7.
              The eighth section of the act of 1846 provided that the proceeds of the sales of
                the lands of the Wabash and Erie Canal, and the tolls and revenues of said canal,
                should to applied to the repayment of the principal sum or sums that may have been
                advanced for the completion of said canal, and to pay in full the interest on the
                sum or sums advanced for the completion of said canal to Evansville, and it
                expressly declared:
              "But for the sufficiency of said lands or toll and revenues of said canal, and to
                pay the advances aforesaid or for the faithful application of the same by said
                trustees to said purposes the faith of the State is or shall be in no wise
                pledged."
              The ninth section provides that before the deed should be executed and delivered by
                the Governor to the Trustees, conveying to them in trust for the bondholders the
                Wabash and Erie Canal and its lands, that the subscribers to the sum to be advanced
                to complete the canal to Evansville should pay over to the Trustees ten per centum
                of the amount of their subscriptions, and pay thereafter, from time to time, such
                further sums as might be needed for the completion  of the canal. And the section expressly provided
                that--
              "No such failure, or any act or omission, or consequence of such failure, act, or
                omission, on the part of said subscribers to said advance, shall at any time, in any
                manner, operate as a pledge of the State for any sum or sums hereby provided to be
                paid out of the revenues or lands of said canal; but the execution of the deed, as
                specified in section eight of this act, shall of itself operate as a release of the
                faith of the State from the payment of any part of such sum, and all other sums and
                interest, except the principal of the stock and the interest of two and one-half per
                centum per annum, as provided in the first section of this act. For the amount of
                any such call, said Trustees shall give to said subscribers the proper certificate,
                under their corporate seal, and from that time only shall interest be computed on
                such advance. But for the principal of any such advance, or the interest on the
                same, the faith of the State is or shall be in no wise pledged."
              The thirteenth section provided that the tolls and revenues of the Wabash &
                Erie Canal should be applied to the repairs and expenses of said canal and extension
                of the same, until January 1, 1847, from which period up to and including the 1st
                day of January, 1853, the tolls and revenues, after defraying all necessary
                expenditures and outlays appertaining to the canal, should be applied, subject to
                the limitations in the eighth section of the act, to the payment of the two and
                one-half per centum interest unprovided for by the State, on the principal of the
                surrendered bonds from the 1st day of January, 1847, to the 1st day of January 1852,
                at which time the deficiencies of the tolls and revenues to pay the interest should
                be added to the unprovided for two and one-half per centum on the principal of the
                bonds surrendered, from the 1st day of January, 1841, to the 1st day of January,
                1847, "and the sum thereof shall be converted into the special stock herein before
                referred to, the principal and interest of which shall be only payable out of the
                said canal, lands and tolls and revenues of said canal, as herein before provided,
                and for which proper certificates of stock shall be issued. But for the redemption
                of said principal, or the payment of said interest the faith of the State is in no
                wise pledged."
              The thirty-third section provided that the acceptance of the grant of lands made by
                the General Government to the State, to enable the State to extend and complete the
                Wabash and Erie Canal from Terre Haute to the Ohio River, "shall not be construed to
                make it obligatory on the State, at any time hereafter, to complete said canal out
                of its revenues derived from taxation."
              The thirty-secod section of the act is as follows:
              "It shall be optional with the State, at any time hereafter, to call in and require
                a surrender of the outstanding stock issued under the first section of this act, by
                giving to the holder of such stock a new certificate for the one-half of the
                principal thereof, to bear interest at and after the rate of five per centum per
                annum; and which principal and interest shall be payable and redeemable by the State
                out of the revenues thereof, the principal to be payable at the pleasure of the
                State, and by giving to such holder another certificate for the other half of the
                principal of such stock, to bear a like interest of five per centum per annum, and
                to be paid and redeemed, and only paid and redeemed out of said canal lands, and the
                tolls and revenues of said canal, as provided in the eighth section of this act; and
                from and after the time that the State shall call in said stock, issued under the
                first section of this act, and shall issue new certificates as aforesaid, the State,
                its faith and revenues, shall be only pledged and responsible for the payment of
                one-half of said principal and interest at the rate of five per centum per annum;
                and the other half of said principal and interest, the holders of said certificates
                shall look solely and exclusively to said canal lands and the tolls and revenues of
                said canal as provided in the eighth section, aforesaid of this act."
              This act not only provided that the State should be relieved from all liability for
                the payment of that half of the debt charged upon the canal, its lands, revenues and
                effects, but it expressly provided that the State should be in no wise liable on
                account of the completion of the canal to Evansville, of the faithful and honest
                application of the moneys paid to the Trustees for that purpose. To all this the
                creditors readily assented.
              Mr. BROWN continued at great length. The remainder of his speech will appear in the
                Appendix to the BREVIER REPORTS. When he had concluded.
              The Senate adjourned till 2 o'clock P. M. to-morrow under the rule.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            THURSDAY, January 12, 1871.
          
          The House met at 10 o'clock A. M.
          The journal of yesterday was read--till
          On motion of Mr. STEPHENSON, the further reading was dispensed with.
          Mr. NETHERTON desired the journal to be amended so as to withdraw his vote in the
            affirmative on the question yesterday of the adoption of Mr. Calkins, of Porter's,
            amendment to the Senate joint resolution against the annexation of San Domingo, for the
            reason that the terms of that amendment might be understood as against the annexation on
            any terms. He was satisfied to stand among the noes of the record on the final
            passage.
          It was ordered that the journal be corrected accordingly.
          Mr. BROWNING said he was credited in the newspapers with the resolution of yesterday
            for the revised statutes. It belonged to Mr. Cunningham.
          
            STANDING COMMITTEES.
            The SPEAKER laid before the House his arrangement and appointment of Standing
              Committees of the House of Representatives, in continuation, as follows:
            On Roads--Messrs. Tarlton, Millikan, Martin of Wayne, Curtiss, Goble, Britton,
              Monroe.
            On Public Expenditure--Messrs. Haynes, Coggswell, Conner, Martin of Putnam, Miles,
              Hawley, Millikan.
            On Manufactures and CommerceMessrs. Rise, Beeler, Holman, Walker, Devol,
              Taughinbough, Myers.
            On Insurance--Messrs. McDowell, Simpson, Neff, Wilson, Taylor, St. John,
              Henderson.
            On Claims--Messrs. Tebbs, Browning, Gordon, of Boone, Zenor, Sabin, Hartley,
              Williams.

            

            On County and Township Business--Messrs. Zenor, Wood, Stephens, Bruner, Major,
              Guthrie.
            On Federal Relations--Messrs. Henderson, Williams, Biggs, Copner, Hendry, Hooker.
            On Fees and Salaries--Messrs. Mitchell, McDonald, Wilson, Cauthorn, Coggswell, Martin
              of Putnam, Stephenson.
            On Engrossed Bills--Messrs Copner, Stephens, Holland, Wood.
            On Banks--Messrs. Miles, Warrum, Knight, MoDonald, Lines, Gentry, Kirkpatrick.
            On Railroads--Messrs Browning, McDonald, King, Minnick, Washburn, Neff, Woodard.
            On Mileage and Accounts--Messrs. Cunningham, Biggs, Hardin, Hynes, Snodgrass,
              Rrawles, Weekley.
            On Cities and TownsMessrs. Cauthorn, Ruddell. Rice, Stephenson, McGawin, Copner,
              White.
            On Corporations--Messrs. Neff, Cauthorn, McDonald, Taylor, St. John, Browning,
              Ballenger.
            On Trust Fund--Messrs. Oatley, Browning, Conner, St. John, Warram, Zenor,
              Strickland.
            On Temperance--Messrs, Rice,Heilman, Barnaby and Deputy.
            On Swamp LandsMesses. Caldwell, Calkins of Porter, Galentine, Stanley, Wymer, Gordon
              of Cass, and Netherton.
            On Rights and Privileges--Messrs. Haynes, Stanley, Furnas, Deputy, Britton,
              Montgomery and Ruddell.
            On Canals--Messrs, Cauthorn, Ray, Hill, Kennedy, Copner, Caldwell and Myers.
            On Statistics and Emigration--Messrs. Shutt, McFarland, Bruner, Sayers, Hooker,
              Guthrie and Weekly.
            On Prisons--Messrs, Simpson, Donohue, Rudell, Barnaby, Myers, Strickland and
              Tebbs.
            On Organization of Courts--Messrs. Sansberry, Henderson, Rhodes, St. John,
              Cunningham, Ruddell, Copner.
            On Military Affairs--Messrs Browning, Simpson, Myles, Stone, Friedley, Gentry,
              Rawles.
            On Agriculture--Messrs. Donoham, Shutt, Logan, Beeler, Goble, Hardin, Furnas.
            On PrintingMessrs. Tarlton, Neff, Devol, Minnick, Cox, Calkins, of Porter, Gordon, of
              Boone.
          
          
            JOINT STANDING COMMITTEES.
            On Enrolled Bills--Messrs. Cunningham, Myers, Holland, Tebbs, Butterworth.
            On Public Library--Messrs. Hawley, Ballenger, Montgomery.
            On Public Buildings--Messrs. McFarland, Mitchell, Hill.
            The SPEAKER stated the request of Mr. Simpson for leave of absence till Monday, on
              account of the destruction of his property by fire; and it was so ordered.
          
          
            WABASH & ERIE CANAL STOCK.
            On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS, the Governor's Special Message of yesterday was read.
            It transmits the memorial of a committee in behalf of the holders of the Wabash &
              Erie canal stocks, which sets forth that said stockholders have authorized their
              attorneys, and pray for authority to sue the State on the amount of said
              bonds--($16,000,000 or &18,000,000)--and his Excallency stating that he can not
              recommend the payment of said stock represented--(which has discussed in his late
              message)--the jurisdiction of the courts of the State having been withheld in the
              case; and if the constitutional provision were removed the Governor said it is a
              question which the people might decide.
            The SPEAKER suggested that the papers should go to the Committee on
                Canals.
            It was so ordered.
          
          
            PETITIONS.
            Mr. GENTRY presented a petition for an adjustment of fees and salaries.
            Mr. STONE. For the amendment of the gravel road law.
          
          
            RESOLUTIONS.
            Mr. McFARLAND submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that to avoid confusion in
              the House, the Speaker be requested to assign one Page of the floor on each side of
              the front aisle.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                Committee on Benevolent and Scientific Institutions be instructed
              to inquire into the practicability and necessity of making an appropriation of a
              building adjacent to the Hospital for the Insane--to be used for the incurably insane;
              and that said committee report as soon as possible, by bill or otherwise.
            Mr. DEVOL submitted a resolution, that in the order of the introduction of
              resolutions and bills the names of members shall be called alphabetically; and each
              member shall be allowed to introduce but two propositions.
            Mr. NEFF. The rules require the call to be made by counties.
            The SPEAKER, ( Mr. Wilson in the Chair,) It is a proposition to amend the rules, and
              it must lie one day on the table.
            Mr. NEFF offered a resolution, which was adopted, requesting the Secretary of State
              to furnish the Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means a list
              of all the county tax-ables to carry on the tax duplicate.
          
          
            BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS.
            Mr. DEVOL introduced a joint resolution for a memorial to equalize the pensions of
              soldiers of all wars.
            Mr. DEVOL said he had no doubt all were advised of the fact that in 1862 the Congress
              of the United States provided for pensions for disabled soldiers of the late war; and
              that in 1866 they increased the pensions, with the intention that the increase should
              be applicable to the pensioners of all the wars. But this intention was disregarded by
              the construction of the Commissioner of Pensions. He desired to restore and enforce
              the original intention of Congress.
          
          
            FEE BILL.
            Mr. RUDDELL introduced a bill [H. R. 44] for an act regulating salaries of certain
              officers therin named, and precsribing penalties for the violation of its provisions.
              [It is identical with the Martindale bill pending in the Senate.]
          
          
            NEW STATE HOUSE.
            Mr. WYMER introduced a bill [H. R. 45] for an act to provide for the raising of a
              revenue by the sale of certain lands for the purpose of building a new State House,
              and for the levy and collection of a tax for that purpose, and for the appointment of
              State House Commissioners. Three Commissioners with  the Governor--cost of the building shall not exceed two million of dollars-to be
              completed in three years--one million of commissioners bonds, payable in 1876 and
              1880.
          
          
            LIQUOR LAW.
            Mr. BROWNING introduced a bill [H. R. 46] for an act to repeal an act supplementary
              to an act regulating the sale of liquors, and to prohibit the adulteration thereof,
              approved March 5, 1869.
            Also a bill [H. R. 47] for an act to provide for a forfeiture in cases of the barter,
              sale or gift of intoxicating liquors to any infant or insane or intoxicated person;
              and providing that no recovery shall be had by law for such barter, sale or gift.
            Mr. KNIGHT introduced a bill [H. R. 48] for an act for the yearly inspection of
              Justices' dockets by Township Trustees.
            Mr. DEFREES introduced a bill [H. R. 49] for an act to authorize the collection of
              debts in the township of the county where the contract was made.
            Mr. BIGGS introduced a bill [H. R. 50] for an act extending the time of holding the
              Court of Common Pleas in Kosciusko county and repealing, etc. (Three weeks each term
              and as much longer for the September term as the business may require.)
            Mr. COPNER. [H. R. 5.] For an act repealing Sections 2 and 6 of the act repealing
              Sections 2 to 22 of the Registration act of March 11th, 1867; and prescribing further
              duties of officers of elections, and appointing the necessary officers for holding
              elections.
            Mr. McDOWELL. [H. R. 52.] For an act prescribing forfeitures for taxing and
              collecting exorbitant fees. [Three times the amont of the injury.]
            Mr. MONROE. [H. R. 53.] For an act regulating the fees of County Commissioners.
          
          
            SUPERVISORS OF HIGHWAYS.
            Mr. RICE. [R. R. 54 ] For an act providing for the election or appointment of
              Supervisors of Highways, prescribing their duties, and certain of the duties of
              Township Trustees; and respealings, etc.[Term two years--vavancies filled by the
              appointments of the Township Trustees--road tax not to exceed ten cents on the $100in
              case of vacancy in the office of Township Trustee, his duty devolves on the County
              Commissioners.]
            Mr. STONE. [H. R. 55.] For an act authorizing turnpike companies organized under the
              act of 1865, to avail themselves of the provisions of the act of March 12th,1852, and
              of March 6th, 1865.
          
          
            PROMISSORY NOTES.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. [H. R. 56] For an act to amend section 13 of the act
              providing for the election and qualification of Justices of the Peace, and providing
              for their powers and duties in civil cases. [It proposes a proviso, that persons may
              be sued in the township where the agreement is made payable.]
            Mr. MYERS--[H. R. 57] for an act to amend sections 1 and 2 of the act to amend
              sections 13 and 18 of the act providing for the election and qualification of Justices
              of the Peace. [It contains a similar provision, and adding, that where there are more
              than one defendant, the suit may be brought in the township where either may
              reside.
            Mr. WILSON[H. R. 58] for an act to establish Superior Courts, defining the
              jurisdiction, and providing for the election of Judges thereof. [In any county or
              incorporated city of 40,000 inhabitants, there shall be established a Superior Court,
              of three Judges elected for four years--to have the business of the Common Pleas, and
              concurent jurisdiction with the Circuit Court.
            These bills were several read the first time and referred.
            Mr. WARRUM--[H. R. 59]-pending which--
            The House took a recess till 2 o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed the chair at two o'clock. He stated in behalf of Mr. Robinson, of
              Warrick who is in bad health, that he has received a dispatch that his child lies at
              the point of death, and he desired leave of absence till Monday.
            The leave was granted by unanimous consent.
            
              COMMITTEE ROOMS.
              On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS, it was ordered that a special committee be appointed to
                prepare suitable rooms for the meetings of the several standing committees of the
                House.
            
            
              CORPORATIONS DRAINAGE LAW.
              On motion of Mr. CALKINS of Porter, his Swamp Land bill [H. R. 8] and that of Mr.
                Wood [H. R. 23] with accompanying petitions, were taken up and referred to the
                  Committee on Swamp Lands.
              On motion of Mr. RHODES, it was ordered that his interest bill [H. R. 14] and all
                other bills before the House in relation to interest or money be referred to the
                  Committee on the Judiciary.
              On motion of Mr. ST. JOHN, it was ordered that he have leave to withdraw his bill
                [H. R. 10] for an act to amend section 1 of the act to amend section 43 of the act
                for the settlement of decedant's estates, approved July 10, 1852, which was
                introduced by him on the 6th of January, and that he have leave to amend the same by
                substitute.
            
            
              INDIVIDUAL DRAINAGE LAW.
              On the motion of Mr. CALDWELL, his bill [H. R 22] for "an act to amend an act to
                enable the owners of wet lands to drain and reclaim them, when the same can be done
                without affecting the rights of others, by amending the title thereof, and sections
                1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, was taken up and referred to the
                  Committee on the Judiciary.
            
            
              RAILROADS.
              Mr. WARRUM'S bill [H. R. 59] introduced this morning, for an act declaring all
                railroad companies in the State of Indiana common carriers; requiring them to
                receive and discharge passengers and freight at all  their stations; establishing rates of freight and
                travel, etc., and providing penalties, (Amongst other things it declares their
                ordinary free passes contrary to public policy and void,) was taken up and read the
                first time.
              Mr. WARRUM moved that 200 copies of his bill be printed.
              Mr. McDONALD and Mr. NEFF opposed and Mr. BROWNING and others supported the
                motion.
              Mr. DEFREES moved to lay the motion to print on the table.
              The motion to lay on the table prevailed by yeas 62, nays 31--and then the bill was
                referred to the Railroad Committee.
            
            
              NAVIGATION OF THE WABASH RIVER.
              A message was received from the Senate by Mr. Cory, Secretary, announcing the
                passage in that body, and signature of the Lieutenant Governor, of Mr. Cauthorn's
                joint resolution for a memorial to Congress for the improvement of the navigation of
                the Wabash river from its mouth to Lafayette, and as much higher as the surveys may
                show that navigation is practicable.
              The SPEAKER now announced the special committee on Mr. Biggs' Court bill [H. R.
                50], which was introduced this morning, to-wit: Messrs. Biggs, Cox, Calkins, of
                Fulton, and Gordon, of Boone.
            
            
              BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS.
              Mr. MITCHELL introduced a bill [H. R. 60] for an act to provide for a Supervisor
                and Board of Commissioners for the benevolent institutions of the State. [Elective
                by the General Assembly--of the first four commissioners, two to serve two years and
                two to serve four years.]
              The bill was referred to the Committee on Benevolent and Scientific
                  Institutions.
            
            
              RAILROAD AID REPEAL.
              Mr. Calkins of Fulton's railroad aid repeal bill [H. R. 12] was read the second
                time and referred to the Committee on Railroads.
            
            
              DIVORCE LAWS.
               Mr. St. John's divorce law amendment bill [H. R. 15] was read the second time.
              Mr. Stephens' divorce law amendment bill [H. R. 16] was read the second time.
              Mr. DEFREES proposed to amend by adding appropriately these words: "Provided that
                no person so divorced shall be permitted to marry again in one year." [Laughter and
                "consent."]
              Mr. CUNNINGHAM proposed to amend by inserting the following section to-wit:"Any
                person violating the provisions of this act shall be fined in the sum of one hundred
                dollars or confined in the jail of the proper county for the term of thirty days, or
                both, at the discretion of the court trying the same."
              These bills were referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
              Mr. Browning's Justices' Act Amendment bill [H. R. 17 [ was read the second time
                and referred to the Judiciary Committee.
            
            
              OHIO FALLS PILOTS.
              Mr. Barnaby's Pilot bill [H. R. 19] was read the second time and ordered to be
                engrossed.
            
            
              CRIMINAL PROCEDURE.
              Mr. Warrum's Procedure Amendment bill [H. R. 21], for regulating proceedings and
                pleadings in defendants' plea of insanity, etc., was read the second time.
              Mr. WARRUM moved, ineffectually, that the bill be ordered to engrossment and third
                reading.
              Mr. CONNER moved that it be referred to the Judiciary
                Committee.
              Mr. CALKINS objected to the motion, because it would be throwing too much work into
                that committee.
              It was referred to the Judiciary Committee.
            
            
              SCHOOL FUND INTEREST.
              Mr. Major's Common School Fund Interest bill [H. R. 25] was read the second time,
                and referred to the Committee on Education.
            
            
              REVENUE FOR 1871-'72.
              Mr. Washburn's revenue bill [H. R. 26] was read the second time, and referred to
                the Committee on Ways and Means.
            
            
              ROADS AND HIGHWAYS.
              Mr. Taylor's bill [H. R. 27] for an act for the improvement of highways, and
                providing for the assessment and collection of road taxes, and prescribing the
                duties of township Trustees and others in relation thereto, was taken up in the
                regular order of the calendar and read the second time.
              Mr. SABIN proposed to amend by inserting the word "responsible" between the words
                "lowest" and "bidder" wherever they occur in the bill.
              On motion of Mr. NEFF, the subject was referred to the Committee on County
                  and Township Business.
              Mr. GORDON, of Boone's, fee bill [H. R. 28] for an act regulating and fixing the
                salaries of certain county officers therein mentioned, and providing for the
                compensation of deputies appointed by them, was read a second time and referred to
                the Committee on Fees and Salaries.
              The House then, at 4 o'clock, adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORT.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            FRIDAY, January 13, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 2 o'clock P. M.--the LIEUT. GOVERNOR in the Chair.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR announced that, in accordance with an arrangement made with the
            Young Men's Christian Association for free Chaplain service, the Rev. Thomas H. Lynch,
            of the M. E. Church, would open the session with prayer.
          Dr. Lynch prays.
          On motion of Mr. MARTINDALE, the reading of the Secretary's minutes of yesterday's
            proceedings was dispensed with.
          
            LEGISLATIVE EXPENSES.
            On motion by Mr. SCOTT, the regular order of business was dispensed with, and the
              bill [H. R. 32] for an appropriation of $100, 000 for the expenses of the present
              session of the General Assembly was read; the constitutional provision was suspended
              by yeas and nays, the bill was read the second time by title, and again the third
              time, and finally passed by yeas 42, nays none.
          
          
            SESSION HOURS.
            Mr. BROWN, by leave, offered a resolution that when the Senate adjourn it adjourns
              till Monday at 2 o'clock P. M.
            Mr. WILLIAMS offered a substitute,which was accepted by Mr. Brown, as follows:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That when the Senate adjourn, it adjourr s to meet
                    to-morrow at nine o'clock, for the purpose of introducing bills, reading bills a
                    second time and referring to committees, and that no other business shall be in
                    order during the day.
                
              
            
            The substitute was agreed to.
          
          
            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
            The Senate proceeded to the consideration of the concurrent resolution of Mr. Brown
              and the joint resolutions of Mr. Caven on the subject of the Wabash and Erie
              Canal.
            Mr. GREEN, in reply to Mr. Brown, of Jackson, said that it was the first time in his
              life he had to answer a printed and well matured speech, and that he must give the
              gentleman credit for his energy and ability in preparing his argument. Much had been
              said by the gentleman which he could heartily endorse (as well as part of his
              resolutions) and he felt no disposition to speak of what he approved. Mr. G., by way
              of introduction, referred to the old Whig party. This B.R. -6touched a tender spot. As
              he had been born and raised in that church, he thought he knew something of its
              doings.
            He denies the assertion that the internal improvement system was brought about by the
              old Whig party. Prior to the internal improvement system, the public deposits of the
              government have been snatched by the execution of the United States from the Bank of
              the United States,which was an arbitrary reach of executive power, such as had never
              been exercised before nor since; and the public deposits distributed to about nine
              States--Indiana being one of them. Thereupon the Bank of the State came into
              existance, and the word was to discount freely. These banks were called pet banks.
            The Democrats were not content with one bank, and not only allowed the State to
              become a monopoly but granted to all her citizens the same privilege. The result was
              banks sprung up all over the State. In every town and hamlet, nearly, a bank sprung
              up, and a fever of speculation sprung up. The internal fever spread over all the
              country.
            In 1836 we went into the great system of internal improvements, to the amount of
              $10,000,000. Things moved rapidly until pay day overtook us, then came the crisis, and
              the State and her citizens financially failed.
            From 1841 to 1846 the State failed to make any arrangements for the payment of the
              interest on her debt. The creditors became alarmed and set on foot the arrangement
              which was afterwards consumated in what is known as the Butler bills, in 1846-7. By
              this compromise we are willing to stand. This compromise provides that the old
              internal improvement bonds should be surrendered and new ones issued, as has been well
              said. Under this compromise all the old internal improvement bonds were surrendered
              except 353 bonds of $1,000 each8 have since been surrendered under this compromise.
              The General Government, at a time when our bonds were at a premium, purchased 211 of
              these bonds.
            The State made no arrangement to pay his or any other internal improvement bond.
              These bonds had been purchased for the purpose of securing to certain Indian tribes
              the annuities promised them.

            

            The bonds were held on to by the United States.
            We had a fund coming to us called the three per cent. fund a fund the farmers of the
              several counties were anxious every year to receive for road purposes. This fund by
              the General Government was withheld from the State and applied upon the interest due
              on our bonds. Governor Wright, and all the Democratic Governors of the State
              acquiesced in this. This sum amounted to over $108,000.
            The great rebellion came on us, of which I decline to speak now, and we incurred a
              war debt. In the settlement of this claim the United States was not unmindful of our
              indebtedness to her, and took the precaution by her officers to file caveats in the
              proper offices, notifying these offices not to pay unless our indebtedness was taken
              into the account.
            The State had, by act of legislation, authorized the Executive of this State to
              settle with the United States. There was due this State a large amount, on what is
              called the War claims. An agent was sent here to settle with the Executive of this
              State, and with the money due us came these bonds of Indiana.
            The Governor made the settlement, and in this settlement took up 141 of these bonds
              and paid the interest on the other 70 not yet due, as I understand it. The Governor
              received over one half million of dollars in money and the paid bonds, and coupons of
              the other bonds amounting to over $40,000.
            The Governor is charged with fraud that he did this in violation of law. How is this?
              Let us look at it. The Government owed us, and we owed the Government. What is the
              rule of equity, or what is the law between individuals in such cases? And is it not
              the same between States and Governments? He could see no difference. The set off was
              due and should be so set off, according to all rules of equity or law. The United
              States refused to pay any money to us unless we admitted the set off. We needed the
              money and have ratified that part of the transaction, for we have taken the money and
              used it.
            His Excellency the Governor had no doubt of the equity, if not the legal liability of
              the State. The three per cent. fund had been retained and applied on the interest of
              the bonds.
            Further, the eight bonds held by the Sinking Fund for school purposes had been, by
              act of the General Assembly, in substance, paid by the State, amounting to $10,000
              interest, in all over $18,000. It is contended the Governor's act is in violation of
              the acts of 1846 and '47. If so, was not the payment or settlement of the eight school
              bonds in violation of said acts? He was unable to see the distinction. It is true the
              Butler bills prohibits the State from making provision for the payment of the old
              internal improvement bonds, but the Senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown] is too good a
              lawyer to contend that this provision would operate upon outsiders who refused to come
              into the arrangement. The only objects he could see in this provision are the creditor
              did not want us to make provision for these bonds for fear it might weaken the State
              to pay them. On the part of the State it distance. That the State is liable for these
              outstanding bonds, he continued, I have no doubt, and, sir, if I were going to have my
              speech published, I would make the opinion of the learned counsel, Messrs. Hendricks,
              Hord and Hendricks, a part of my speech.
            The Governor has acted in good faith, and done what was for the best interests of the
              State, and under the law governing such cases, and he should be sustained.
            The purchase of the Wabash and Erie Canal no one is in favor of, nor could it be done
              under our constitution. This is not what the bondholders are after. They are not
              putting up the canal for sale to the highest bidder. They wish to rescind the
              contract, or, under the Butler Bills, have the State to redeem it, under the reserved
              right to redeem after' twenty years.
            This redemption the country is opposed to, and I am for settling this question by an
              amendment to our Constitution. I have no sympathy with these bond-holders. They
              besieged us when Indiana was but a youth and took advantage of our infancy. Stimulated
              as we were at the time, they took advantage of the circumstances and induced us to
              contract larger debts than we were likely ever to be able to pay; but we settled fair
              with them and have fully complied with the contract on our part, and this is more than
              they have done. They were to complete the canal to Evansville in four years. This they
              have never done. It is said they dug a ditch through, but soon let it fill up.
            Mr. CAVEN followed in support of his joint resolution.
            These speeches will appear in full in the Appendix to the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
              REPORTS
            Mr. HUGHES moved to amend the first resolution by striking out all after the word
              "resolved" and inserting the following:
            That it is inexpedient to take any legislative action on the subject of the
              resumption by the State of the Wabash and Erie Canal, excepting for the purpose of
              submitting the matter in some appropriate form to the people of the State, and to
              protect the canal from sale, and its revenues from sequestration.
            Amend the second resolution by striking out at the end thereof, the words "and meets
              the disapproval of the General Assembly, etc.," and inserting the following:
            And it is hereby declared that the Governor holds said bonds in trust for the State,
              and subject to the provisions of said laws, and that he is hereby authorized to
              surrender the same under the provisions of said laws and to take and receive for the
              benefit of the State, the stock or bonds to the amount of the one-half provided for in
              said laws, and required to report his proceedings in the premises to the General
              Assembly.

            

            Amend the third resolution by striking out the word "no" in the third line of the
              printed copy thereof, between the words "make" and "provision;" and by striking out
              the word "or" in the fourth line, and inserting in its place the word "and," and by
              striking out all after the word "bonds," so that said third resolution will read as
              follows:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, By the Senate, the House of Representatives
                    concurring, that this General Assembly of the State of Indiana will make
                    provision for the payment of the principal and interest of the old internal
                    improvement bonds.
                
              
            
            Mr. BROWN moved to make the whole subject the special order in Committee of
                the Whole for Tuesday, at 2 o'clock P. M.
            Mr. MARTINDALE demanded a division of the question--first on Mr. Brown's resolution
              and Mr. Hughes' amendment.
            This division of the question was agreed to.
            Mr. MARTINDALE suggested the reference of the resolution for a constitutional
              amendment, introduced by Mr. Caven, to a standing committee.
            Mr. BROWN and Mr. HUGHES thought the joint resolution for a constitutional amendment
              should go with the concurrent resolution submitted by Mr. Brown.
            Mr. MARTINDALE regarded the questions covered by the two resolutions as distinct.
            Mr. WILLIAMS would like to see the proposition of Mr. Caven made the order for
              Wednesday; but did not press the motion in deference to an appeal by Mr. Brown.
            The resolution of Mr. Caven was made the special order for Tuesday at 2 o'clockthe
              same hour set for the consideration of Mr. Brown's resolution.
          
          
            MORGAN RAID CLAIMS.
            Mr. ANDREWS, by leave, introduced a bill [S. 43,] making an appropoiation of $413,599
              58 for the payment of claims of sufferers by the Morgan raid, which was read the first
              time and passed to the second reading.
          
          
            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
            Mr. HUGHES submitted the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That Hon. Stearns Fisher, of Wabash, county, be,
                    and he is hereby appointed a special clerk under the Secretary of the Senate, to
                    assist the appropriate committee having charge of the subject of claims against
                    the State, arising out of and connected with the Wabash and Erie Canal, and the
                    settlement of the funded debt of the State in their investigations.
                
              
            
             Mr. MARTINDALE did not want to cast a vote that would indicate any seriousness in
              the matter of this claim.
            Mr. HUGHES would have voted with the Senator had he made a motion when the matter
              first came up, to lay the memorial from the bond holders on the table, and would now
              vote to discharge the committee from the consideration of the subject, and for tabling
              it.
            Mr. MARTINDALE thought it not necessary to expend time and money on something that
              will amount to nothing, for the people have made up their mind that there is nothing
              of equity in the claims presented. If the Senator asks for a general clerk to the
              committee he would have no objection.
            Mr HUGHES ventured the suggestion that not three Senators could say at what period
              the State ceased to pay interest on the old claims, and but few knew that some of the
              bonds had fifty years to run. The committee can not investigate the canal question and
              do any other work of importance this winter. He desired the Senate to relieve the
              committee of that work or give them facilities for doing it in the most expeditious
              and satisfactory manner.
            Mr. BROWN said when this memorial first came in he desired it laid on the table; and
              if the Senator will withdraw his resolution, he would make the preliminary motions
              now.
            Mr. HUGHES withdrew his resolution.
            Mr. BROWN thereupon moved to discharge the committee from the further consideration
              of the memorial.
            Mr. GREEN and Mr. HAMILTON thought a question that created so much anxiety among the
              people ought not to be dodged in this way. The latter Senator was of opinion that we
              owed no debt on this score, but nevertheless he desired to give the committee every
              facility they may ask for its consideration.
            The motion was agreed to, and so the committee was discharged from the further
              consideration of the memorial.
            The memorial was then made the special order for Tuesday next, at 2 o'clock P. M.
          
          
            ABSENCE.
            Leaves of absence were granted to Mr. case indefinitely, on account of sickness; and
              to Mr. Alsop till Thursday.
          
          
            BILLS ON THE SECOND READING.
            The following described bills were read by title only, and severally referred to
              appropriate committees.
            Mr. Bradley's [S. 1,] to legalize bonds of cities issued to aid in the construction
              of water works.
            Mr. Johnston's [S. 2,] to prevent hunting or shooting within enclosure without the
              consent of the owner thereof.
            Mr. Martindale's [S. 3,] to regulate the fees of certain officers therein named, (all
              State and county officers.)
            Mr. Henderson's [S. 4,] prescribing certain duties of clerks, auditors, sheriffs and
              treasurers of the several counties of this State.
            Mr. Bradley's [S. 5,] to enable married women to join with their husbands in
              executing contracts for conveyance of his real estate.
            Mr. Green's [S. 6,] fixing specific salaries for county officers, etc.
            Mr. Hadley's [S. 7,] providing for publication of certain business of Boards of
              Commissioners.
            Mr. Martindale's [S. No. 8], to amend certain sections of the Divorce act.
            Mr. Wood's [S. No. 9], regulating interest on money.
            Mr. Gregg's [S. No. 10], to repeal certain 
              sections of an act in regard to the duties and compensation of State Agent.
            Mr. Johnson's [S. No. 11], in relation to draining wet lands.
            Mr. Cave's [S. No. 12], amending the School law.
            Mr. Beardley's [S. No. 13], to establish rate of interest on judgments and claims,
              etc.
            Mr. Hubbard's [S. No. 14], to encourage manufacturing.
            Mr. Johnson's [S. No. 15], to authorize the construction of plank roads, etc.
            Mr. Hess' [S. No. 16], to amend an act authorizing cities and towns to issue bonds to
              erect and complete school buildings, etc.
            Mr. Williams' [S; No. 17], to regulate and make uniform rates of railroads, etc.
            Mr. Carnahan's [S. 18] relating to fees of County Recorders.
            Mr. Brown's [S. 19] to provide for the relocation of county seats.
            Mr. Hubbard's [S. 20] legalizing appropriations for bridges.
            Mr. Martindale's [S. 21] to amend an act defining felonies, etc.
            Mr. Dittemore's [S. 22] to fix the time for holding the Circuit Court in the Sixth
              Judicial Circuit.
            Mr. Lasalle's [S. 23] to constitute the Twenty-fifth Common Pleas Judicial
              District.
            Mr. Beeson's [S. 24] authorizing plank, gravel and McAdamized road companies to levy
              a tax in their respective districts.
            Mr. Green's [S. 26] to amend sections 1, 3, 4, 6, 9, 11 and 12 of the act of March
              11, 1867, for the reclamation of wet and undrained lands.
            Mr. Dwiggins [S. 27] to amend section 530 of the practice act.
            Mr. Bradley's [S. 28] to amend the act organizing the Supreme Court--for creating an
              additional Judge.
            Mr. Beardsley's [S. 30], supplemental to the act enabling the improvement, by
              incorporated towns, of streets, alleys, etc., approved April 27, 1860.
            Mr. Gray's [S. 31], to provide for the payment of certain stocks and bonds of Indiana
              therein mentioned.
            Mr. Glessner's [S. 32], to fix the time of holding the Circuit Court in 28th Judicial
              Circuit; it gives Shelby county an eight weeks' term, Bartholomew nine and six,
              Johnson four and Brown one.
            Mr. Wadge's [S. 33], to repeal the act to authorize and encourage the construction of
              levees and drains, and for the reclamation of wet lands, which took effect without
              executive approval, May 22, 1869.
            Mr. Morgan's [S. 34], to amend the act amending the 40th clause of section 30 of the
              Evansville city charter.
            Mr. Steele's [S. 36], to amend section 207 of the practice act.
            Mr. Denbo's, [No. S. 36], prescribing the duties of County Auditors in the matter of
              making out delinquent lists and prescribing compensation for publishing the same.
            Mr. Bradley's, [8. 37], to amend an act districting the State for the election of
              Judges of the Supreme Court and creating the Fifth District.
            Mr. Martindale's, [S. 38], to amend the act to exempt property from tax in certain
              cases, approved February 1, 1852.
            Mr. Wiiliams's, [S. 39], amendatory of act an accepting the provisions of the act of
              Congress March 6, 1865, making an appropriation in aid of the Agricultural Colleges,
              and providing for an increase of trustees of the Purdue University, by adding four
              members of the State Board of Agriculture, to be appointed by the Governor on the
              recommendation of the State Board of Agriculture.
            Mr. Martindale's, [S 40], to amend the 34, 37, 39, and other sections of the common
              school law of March 6, 1865, and adding supplemental sections thereto.
            Mr. Martindale's, [S 41], to amend the 5, 6, 7, 16, 17, 35, 110, and other sections
              of the common school law of March 16, 1865.
          
          
            PASSED THE SECOND READING.
            Mr. Fuller's bill [S. 25] regulating the terms of the Circuit Court in the Fifteenth
              Judicial Circuit, and--
            Mr. Bird's bill [S. 29] to provide for holding, by Roman Catholic churches,
              cemeteries, colleges and other property.
            Were severally ordered engrossed for the third reading.
            On motion by Mr. BRADLEY, it was--
            Ordered that the Committee on Education be
              authorized to employ a clerk.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            Mr. DWIGGINS by leave introduced a bill [S. 44] to legalize the sale of seminary
              lands in Jasper county to Marion L. Spitler and Margaret Stackhouse.
            Mr. CARNAHAN, by leave, introduced a bill, [S. 45,] dividing the State into five
              Supreme Court districts, and to provide for the election of a judge in the fifth
              district.
            These bills were read the first time and passed to a second reading.
            Mr. C. made an ineffectual motion--yeas 28, nays 18--two-thirds not voting in the
              affirmative--for a dispensation of the Constitutional restriction in order that this
              bill may be read the second time by title and referred to the appropriate
              committee.
            On motion by Mr. HUGHES it was
            Ordered, That the Judiciary Committee be
              empowered to employ one clerk and one messenger.
            Mr. DENBO offered a resolution, allowing Mr. A. Jaquess five days pay and mileage for
              services as Secretary in the organization of the Senate.
            On motion of Mr. HUGHES, Mr. W. A. Bonham was included in the resolution, on account
              of similar service.
            Mr. FULLER moved to strike out "five days" and insert "one day."
            Mr. BRADLEY moved to further amend by substituting "three" days" for "one day."
            On motion of Mr. DENBO, and by consent, the whole matter was referred to the
                Committee on Claims.
            And then--
            The Senate adjourned till 9 o'clock A. M. to-morrow.
          
        

        

        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            FRIDAY, January 13, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.--the order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. Edson, of the
            Second Presbyterian Church.
          The journal of yesterday was read and authenticated.
          
            BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS OF THE STATE.
            A message from the Senate by a Secretary, announced the passage in that body of a
              concurrent resolution for the election by the concurrent vote of the two Houses of the
              General Assembly this afternoon at 3 o'clock, a Trustee for the Institution for the
              Education of the Blind, a Trustee for the Institution for the education of the Deaf
              and Dumb, and a Commissioner for the Hospital for the Insane.
            On motion of Mr. STONE, (by unanimous consent,) the rules were suspended and the
              concurrent resolution was taken up and adopted on the part of the House of
              Representatives.
          
          
            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
            Mr. HARDIN presented the petition of E. R. Hatfield and others, practicing attorneys
              of the county of Perry, for an increase in the salary of the judges.
            Mr. COGGSWELL presented the petition of James A. Simpson and others, practicing
              attorneys of the county of Orange, in the same matter. These petitions were referred
              to the Committee on Fees and Salaries.
            Mr. BALLINGER presented the following memorial, which was read:
            
              To the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Indiana:
            
            The memorial of Indiana yearly meeting of the Religious Society of Friends, by its
              representative meeting, held at Richmond, on the 2d of twelfth month, 1870,
              respectfully represents:
            That as a religious society we consider marriage an ordinance of God, and not a mere
              civil contract, nor a mere human compact, devoid of religious obligations.
            The original law of marriage, which is found in the second chapter of Genesis,
              describes a union, such as could originate from no mere human authority.
            Our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, when asked by the Pharisees, "Is it lawful for a
              man to put away his wife for every cause," re-enacted this law and ordinance for all
              subsequent time. "Have you not read that He which made them in the beginning, made
              them male and female, and said, for this cause shall a man leave father and mother and
              shall cleave to his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh? What, therefore, God has
              joined together, let no man put asunder." Matt. xix 4-5-6. And I say unto you,
              whosoever shall put away his wife except it be for fornication, and shall marry
              another, committeth adultery; and whoso marrieth her which is put away, committeth
              adultery." Matt, xix 9.
            The legislation of all Christian Nations and States should be based upon Christian
              principles. Hence, while the civil law may, perhaps, properly solemnize the marriage
              contract, it can not properly dissolve it, except for the cause which the Divine Law
              Giver has himself pointed out.
            We are advised that there are seven statutory grounds of divorce in the laws of our
              State:
            1st. Adultery; 2d. Impotency; 3d. Abandonment for one year; 4th. Cruel treatment of
              either party by the other; 5th. Habitual drunkenness by either party, or the failure
              of the husband to provide a reasonable support for his family; 6th. The conviction of
              infamous crime subsequent to marriage: and, 7th, "Any other cause for which the Court
              shall deem it proper that a divorce shall be granted."
            We respectfully submit that all these enactments, except the first, are contrary to
              the teachings of Christ and his Apostles; and some of them actually encourage divorce,
              by offering it as a premium for crime; and the 7th is unknown to "Common Law," and
              grants such unlimited power to the Court, that by expunging the word "other" there
              would seem to be no need for the six preceding specified causes for divorce.
            So much shameful fraud and corruption have characterized the administration of our
              divorce laws, and many innocent persons have been so cruelly wronged thereby, that
              great odium attaches to our otherwise fair record and reputation as a State.
            The inevitable tendency of such enactments is; to unsettle the belief of the people
              in the religious obligations of marriage, and to degrade it to a mere contract between
              the parties, and thus, not only to destroy the sacredness, but also its permanence.
              For, as divorces for trivial causes increase, marriages are lightly contracted, and as
              lightly-spurned; licentiousness increases, the public morals are corrupted, and the
              purity of society and the affections and sacredness of home are ruthlessly
              invaded.
            We do, therefore, respectfully, but earnestly, petition your honorable bodies to
              repeal all the divorce laws of our State, except that which provides for a legal
              separation of man and wife for the crime of adultry.
            LEVI JESSUP, Clerk.
            It was referred to the Committee on Rights and Privileges.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH presented the petition of sundry citizens of St. Joseph county, for
              the repeal of the corporation drainage laws; and moved that there be a standing
              committee of seven to consider all questions with reference to levees and
              drainage.
            Mr. SABIN. This is a proposition to amend the rules, and must lie over.
            The SPEAKER. The point is well taken; but the Chair thinks a special committee would
              answer as well.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH acquiesced; and the order was made for the special committee by
              unanimous consent.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Wayne, presented the petition of R. C. Reed and forty-seven other
              citizens, asking for the amendment of the divorce law; which was referred to the
                committee on Rights and Privileges.
          
          
            THE DAVIDSON-WEAKLEY CONTEST.
            Mr. CAUTHORN, from a majority of the Committee on Elections, to
              which has been  referred the contest of Robert L.
              Davidson for the seat of Otho K. Weakley, one of the Representatives for Tippecanoe
              county, submitted a report in writing, in which they find at length that there was
              counted for the contestee [Mr. Weakly] in Perry township one vote too many, and which
              leave the returns a tie between the costestor and the contestee. The majority of the
              committee find further that on account of irregular and unlawful proceedings in
              certain voting precincts of the county there should be deducted 30 votes from the
              whole number of votes reported for the contestee, and that, therefore, Robert L.
              Davidson, was duly elected a Representative from the county of Tippecanoe. And,
              accordingly, they report a resolution that Otho K. Weekly is not entitled and that
              Robert L. Davidson is entitled to the seat.
            Mr. WHITE for the minority of said committee submitted a report in writing, signed by
              himself and Mr. Sabin, finding, from facts and reasonings submitted at length, that
              while they are willing to throw out the over-counted vote for the contestee in Perry
              township, they would not be justifiable in throwing out the returns in certain
              townships reported by the majority as irregular. And they find that the contestee was
              entitled to receive eight more votes in Wayne township than were counted for him,
              which eight votes may be justly subject to subtraction so as to leave but three votes
              majority for the contestee. The minority, therefore, report a resolution that Mr.
              Weakley is justly entitled to his seat.
            Mr. BIGGS moved the adoption of the minority report.
            Mr. ST. JOHN moved a substitute that the subject be postponed and made the special
              order for Tuesday at 10 o'clock.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, would like to suggest, in a matter of such importance as this,
              that the House should have time for reflection.
            Mr. McDONALD stated that it had been several days since this matter came in, and
              there was no doubt but that it had been fully canvassed by every member.
            Mr. WHITE thought it wiser to postpone. There were involved here very great
              difference of opinion even in points of evidence as well as on legal questions, even
              amongst members of the Committee on Elections, who have enjoyed the
              best opportunities for examination. And this being so, the gentleman from Whitely (Mr.
              McDonald) is mistaken in supposing that it has been fully canvassed.
            The motion of Mr. St. John was agreed, to, and the two reports were made the special
              order of the day for Tuesday at 10 o'clock.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
              Line's bill [H. R. 41] to amend sections 3, 8, and 17 of the law relative to descents,
              approved May 14, 1852, with a recommendation that it lie on the table.
            The report was concurred in by unanimous consent.
          
          
            INTREST ON JUDGMENTS.
            Mr. WILSON, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr. Britton's
              judgment interest bill [H. R. 33] with a recommendation that it lie on the table. He
              said it is a report in favor of the weak as against the strong.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. It seems that where a party has agreed to pay ten per cent.
              interest, there is no good reason to reduce that rate when the amount is merged into a
              judgment. This report is to lay on the table a bill providing that the judgment shall
              bear the same rate of interest as that agreed upon by the contracting parties; and
              certainly there is no reason, in sound common sense, why, after the contract is merged
              into a judgment, the judgment should not bear the same interest. True, there is a
              distinction made by the Supreme Court in a decision under the act of 1848, I believe,
              and by that we are now governed. But I may be allowed to say that I have heard the
              opinion expressed by sound lawyers and others that there is no good reason for this
              reduction of the interest in the judgment. I move that the report be laid on the
              table.
            Mr. CAUTHORN concurred in opinion with the gentleman from Porter, that where parties
              make a contract there is no good reason why it should not be enforced by the
              judgment.
            Mr. BRITTON said he had introduced the bill at the request of borrowers of money in
              his county who assert that the present decision debars the poorer classes from
              borrowing money.
             Mr. RUDDELL suggested to the gentlemsn from Porter [Mr. Calkins] the parliamentary
              propriety of changing his motion. The motion should be that the House do not concur in
              the report of the committee.
            Mr. CALKINS changed his motion accordingly.
            Mr. SAYERS. Lenders of money always take into consideration the question whether they
              have to sue, and if so, they charge a higher rate of interest. I am in favor of the
              report.
            Mr. BALLENGER. I can not believe this report is made in the interest of the weak as
              against the strong. I think the law as it now stands operates against the weak.
              Whatever makes it difficult for the loaner to get back his money makes the rate of
              interest higher. I think the judgment should bear the same rate of interest with the
              contract. It is for the interest of the borrowing class that reasonable facilities be
              given for the collection of debts. Whenever you render it difficult to collect money
              you find it difficult to borrow money. The report then is not in favor of the weak but
              of the strong. It is certainly to the interest of the borrower to have the law so that
              his contract may be enforced throughout.
            Mr. CONNER. I am not at all convinced that it is to the interest or advantage of the
              man in doubtful financial circumstance to be a borrower of money. I am not much
              concerned here with the desire to throw around men better facilities for borrowing
              money. We may  find money-lenders in favor of this
              proposition, and they say it is for the interest of the borrower. But what constitutes
              these money-lenders friends of the poor man? I think it is not the province of the
              Legislature to say what the price of money shall be, any more than they have the right
              to determine the price of produce. But the unfortunates ere driven by their creditors
              into the courts. Then the Legislature should come in and protect the poorer class. The
              law as it now stands discourages litigation, and leaves contracting parties to
              determine matters among themselves. Therefore, I say, as a matter of policy, I am in
              favor of this report, and would like to see the bill laid on the table.
            Mr. MYERS. I came here with special instructions to get a bill similar to this before
              the General Assembly; and when this was introduced here, I had one of nearly the same
              tenor in my hand, and was ready to introduce it. I am not a moneyed man. I wish I
              were. But there is a principle involved here, like that which would appear if we were
              to go to an insurance agent to get a policy of insurance against loss by fire. If your
              building is surrounded by wooden buildings, you have to pay a higher rate, or you get
              no policy at all. The greater the hazard, the more it costs. These risks come into all
              kinds of business. Gentlemen may get up a little cheap capital, with the plea that the
              poor man's judgment should bear only 6 per cent. But still it will remain true, that
              the greater the obstacles you throw into the way of the collection of debts the harder
              it will be for the borrower of money. In the majority of cases money is now loaned at
              15 per cent., and this by men who are abundantly able to pay. Why is this? because our
              laws are not favorable to the collection of debts. I am here, sir, to see to the
              rights of all classes, including lenders as well as borrowers; and before this bill
              goes to its grave, I desire that it should have further discussion.
            Mr. NEFF. When it dies I will preach its funeral.
            Mr. RUDDELL was with those who were acting in the interests of the poor and in the
              general interests of the State. The gentleman from Elkhart had expressed his view,
              Money lenders all take this risk. A man fails, for example--has a pressing want of
              cash--and they take his note into the market. The lender looks at it and says:
              Probably it may be paid at maturity; but possibly I shall be compelled to sue, and if
              so, I get my judgment and there will be six months' stay; and there may be yet six
              months more before I get my money. The necessary consequence would be that instead of
              his demanding the lawful interest at ten per cent. he would require the borrower to
              pay from fifteen to forty per cent. But if the capitalist felt when he makes the
              contract for the loan that the law would enforce the contract he would not hesitate.
              Again, by this policy of bad collection laws, as has been said, capital is fleeing
              away from us into States where, it is better protected. The speaker gave the case of a
              lady near this town who had been loaning money on first mortgage security at 10 per
              cent. She was a benefit to the community, but being unfortunate in one case wherein
              the party borrowing of her under our collection laws was offered, and he accepted, a
              premium to act the rascal, and he refused to pay her at maturity. To avoid the 10 per
              cent. he allowed his paper to go to the judgment and paid her but six per cent. And
              you will find many such parties every day going to their attorneys and inquiring of
              them what will be the cost and advantage of taking this course. This lady now will put
              all her money in real estate which will not pay her anything immediately; but she
              prefers to take this course and be relieved of all uncertainties. He proposed that the
              House should have ample time to consider this report, as it involves one of the most
              important questions to come before us.
            Mr. WILSON. The bill on which the report was made provides that the contract shall
              bear the same rate of interest when carried into judgment. Now, it seems to me, than
              when a poor man is compelled to borrow money at 10 per cent. interest, it is in a case
              of extreme necessity; and under such circumstances it seems to me, that the money
              lender should not have the right to carry or 10 per cent. interest unto the judgment.
              Summarily cutting off time and opportunity to pay the debt without suit. It is a
              strange reasoning when it is argued that this bill is in favor of the borrower. I have
              yet to learn that a contract bearing 10 per cent. is more favorable to the borrower
              than one bearing 6 per cent., and that the spirit of this measure giving the creditor
              the right to enforce the same rate of interest in a judgment is in sympathy with the
              interest of the borrower. Such a change of the law would place the poor man in the
              clutches of the money lender, and when necessity comes and distress should fall upon
              him, instead of meeting with the forbearance, and leniency now exercised by many, he
              would be permitted simply to elect his choice--payment or suit--for under this act it
              would be preferable for creditors to put his note into judgment as soon as he
              could--than to exercise indulgence and time.
            Mr. ABBETT. There is but one principle involved here. We are not to legislate for the
              benefit of any particular class; but the question is: whether a man shall be required
              to pay according to his contract. If he borrows at ten per cent. he should be
              compelled by law to pay ten per cent. I am emphatically in favor of every man paying
              what he agrees to pay, and let it be recovered by the judgment. And if a man agrees to
              pay even twenty or thirty per cent. I would have it required of him.
            Mr. NEFF. It seems to me now that it is best to have a test, vote on this question. I
              am in favor of the report. I hope that the day is not far distant when the finances of
              the State will be such that six per cent. will be all that is required. Anything
              beyond that the courts now regard as usurious, and  so I regard it. But in what interest are we legislating? Is this bill to benefit
              the poor the borrower? Does it come from this class of men ? Certainly not. But it
              comes from men of money. I make no personal reflections. I do not mean any. But,
              talking about bankers; gentlemen say that when a banker takes a note with the law as
              it now is, he makes the borrower pay a greater rate of interest. I want to know if the
              banker does not take all the law allows him? Bankers do not expect to sue anybody.
              They have good advisers, and if the debtor is unfortunate--loses his summer's work, or
              loses by the hog cholera, or the like, they go to their lawyer, and he advises, and
              they have a, little patience, because it is their interest to do so, rather than take
              the six per cent. on a judgment. Talk not to me of legislating in favor of the poor.
              Legislation has been against the poor since the time of the law of Moses, and I am not
              ashamed or afraid to declare it in this Hall. When gentlemen ask that the judgment
              shall draw 10 per cent. I ask them not to claim here that they are representing the
              poor man. They are representing the interests of the man standing behind his counter
              loaning money. And there is another innovation upon our laws, something like this,
              which I denounce as infamous. It is called the iron-clad note. A man in straitened
              circumstances gives his note, and in it agrees to pay for collection and attorney's
              fees.
            Mr. McDONALD. I represent a farming community, and I will say here that I loan money.
              I commenced in the world without a shilling, and I loan money to-day at 10 per cent.;
              but I never sued a man in my life. But, sir, there is not one in the hundred that
              loans money; and therefore my vote here shall be for the people as against
              capitalists. I am opposed to this bill as a proposition in the interest of the
              capitalists, and if this bill pass, as my friend (Mr. Neff) has said, with these
              iron-clad pitch-fork notes they will get 20 per cent.--as the law now stands they get
              16 per cent. of the borrowers.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone. Gentlemen say they vote for this bill because it will
              discourage litigation; I vote against it because I think it encourages litigation.
            Mr. COPNER spoke for concurrence in the report of the Committee.
            Mr. SANSBERRY was satisfied that the law as it now stands encourages litigation. When
              a man has a note outstanding, if he is an honest man he will try to pay it, but if he
              is tricky he will allow it to be sued; and he will even incur the cost of taking it to
              the Supreme Court, and the costs of attorney's fees, in order to gain time; and
              although the party may not make much in the end, still he has the time. He thought
              that lawyers would prefer that the law stands as it is, but the merchant and the
              grocer who sell upon credit will take into consideration whether or not they will have
              to collect by law, and with this bill insuring them 10 per cent., it seems to me they
              would sell at a lower rate. It seems to me that this bill should be passed for the
              benefit of men of small means. Capitalists do not need anything of the kind. And as
              has been remarked by the gentleman from Cass there is a principle in it that when a
              man makes a contract he shall stand by it. As to the remark of the gentleman from
              Putnam [Mr. Neff] that it would be usurious, he would say that whatever the law fixes
              cannot be usurious.
            After some further time spent in the discussion of the question of order as to the
              precedence of motions, &c., the report of the committee was concurred in by yeas
              48, nays 47.
            And so the bill was laid on the table.
          
          
            BOND FOR COSTS.
            Mr. NEFF, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
              Browning's bill, [H. R. 17,] to amend section 22 of the Justice's act, recommending
              that it lie on the table. Mr. N. stated that this bill is of the character of a quasi
              criminal law, proposing so to mend the law as, that a person in fear of violence to
              his person or injury to his property, can not go before the magistrata and make his
              affidavit to that effect without first giving his bond for the costs. At present the
              losing party in such case pays the costs. It was thought not best to change the
              law.
            After debate by Messrs. CALKLINS of Porter, RUDDELL, BROWNING and others, the report
              of the committee was concurred in.
          
          
            GRAND JURIES.
            Mr. NEFF also returned Mr. Warrum's bill, [H. R. 5,] limiting the power of grand
              juries as to misdemeanors, recommending that it lie on the table.
            The report was concurred in.
          
          
            TRUSTEES OF THE BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS.
            Mr. MITCHELL moved to reconsider the vote taken this morning, adopting on the part of
              the House of Representatives, the Senate concurrent resolution to elect the Trustees
              of the Benevolent Institutions this afternoon, and that the consideration of his
              motion be postponed till Tuesday; which was agreed to by unanimous consent.
            On motion it was
            Ordered, That the Committee on Fees and
              Salaries, the Committee on Claims and the
                Committee on Public Expenditures be authorized severally to
              employ a clerk.
          
          
            WILSON'S DIGEST OF PARLIAMENTARY LAW.
            Mr. MINNIC submitted an order, which was adopted, that the Clerk be authorized to
              contract with the publishers of Wilson's Digest of Parliamentary Law for one copy for
              each member of this House. Amended by Mr. McDonald so as to insert these words: "At
              their lowest wholesale prices."
            It was further ordered, that when the House adjourns to-day, it shall be till Monday
              at two o'clock p. m.
            The House then took a recess till two o'clock p. m.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed at 2 o'clock.
            On motion of Mr. DEVOL, his joint reso-  lution
              for a memorial for equalizing the pension of soldiers of all wars, was taken up and
              passed on the part of the House of Representatives--yeas 82, nays 0.
            
              TRIAL OF INSANITY.
              Mr. McDONALD, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr.
                Warrum's bill [H. R. 21] to amend sections 97 and 103 of the criminal proceedure act
                of June 17, 1852, with a recommendation that it lie on the table. He said: This is a
                bill to try the insanity of the accused. We already have a law to try such cases and
                the Committee do not see any use of change.
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. HENDERSON, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr.
                Ballenger's bill [H. R. 44] to amend section 90 of the criminal procedure act, with
                a recommendation that it lie on the table.
              Mr. BALLENGER moved nonconcurrence in the report.
              The SPEAKER. As the question is whether the House will or will not concur in the
                report, the Chair will put the question in the affirmative as reported by the
                committee.
              The House concurred in the report without a division.
              Mr. TEBBS, from the special committee thereon, returned his bill [H. R. 11] fixing
                the beginning of the term of the Court of Common Pleas in Dearborn county, with a
                recommendation that the same do pass.
              The bill goes to the calendar.
              Mr. McDOWELL submitted the following, which was adopted:
              
                
                  
                    Resolved, That the Auditor of State be and is hereby
                      required to report to this House the names of all officers who have and who
                      have not complied with an act entitled "An act to ascertain the amount of the
                      clerks of the Supreme, Circuit and Common Pleas Courts of this State, of the
                      Sheriff of the Supreme Court, and of the various counties in this State, of
                      County Auditors, Treasurers and Recorders of Circuit and Prosecuting
                      Attorneys, and to provide punishment for a violation of its provisions."
                      Approved June 3d, 1861.
                  
                
              
            
            
              RAILROADS.
              Mr. DEFREES introduced a bill [H. R.61] for an act to reimburse the several
                townships where a special tax has been voted by a majority of the citizens thereof.
                [It is a proposition for a special tax on such railroads for this purpose.]
            
            
              GAME--FISH.
              Mr. DEFREES--[H. R. 62] for an act to amend and consolidate the several acts for
                the protection of birds, game and fish.
            
            
              LEGISLATIVE EXPENSES.
              A message was now received from the Senate by Mr. M'Lain, Secretary, announcing the
                passage and signature in that body, without amendment, of Mr. Williams' bill, [H. R.
                32] appropriating $100,000 for the expenses of the 47th General Assembly.
            
            
              CITY CORPORATION LAW.
              Mr. TAYLOR--[H. R. 63,] for an act to amend sections 62, 63, 65, 66 of the act to
                repeal all general laws now in force for the incorporation of cities, and providing
                for the incorporation of cities, etc., approved March 14,1867, and declaring an
                emergency.
               Mr. MILLIKAN--[H. R. 64,] for an act to amend sections 1 and 2 of the act to
                authorize aid for the construction of railroads by counties and townships taking
                stock therein.
            
            
              MORGAN RAID CLAIMS.
              Mr. TEBBS--[H. R. 65,] for an act making an appropriation of the sum of $413,549 48
                for the payment of claims of sufferers by the Morgan raid. [It is a copy of the bill
                for that object which passed the House at last session.]
              Mr. WILLIAMS desired that it be indefinitely postponed.
              It was referred to the Committee on Claims.
            
            
              THE HOLIDAYS.
              Mr. RUDDELL [H. R. 66], for an act to designate the holidays to be observed in the
                acceptance and payment of bills of exchange, and repealing all laws in conflict with
                the same.
              Mr. CUNNINGHAM [H. R. 67], for an act to amend section 5 of an act concerning
                mortgages, approved May 4, 1852.
              Mr. McDONALD [H. R. 68], for an act to amend an act entitled "An act to district
                the State for the purpose of electing four Judges of the Supreme Court and creating
                the 5th District.
              Mr. MINNICH [H.R. 69] for an act appropriating $25,000 to meet the existing
                contracts and current expenses of the Hospital for the Insane; $7,000 for the
                current expenses for the Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb from the 1st of January to the
                1st of April, 1871, etc.
              Mr. BRITTON [H. R. 70] for an act to authorize spring elections for township
                officers.
              These bills were severally referred to the appropriate committees.
              Mr. WASHBURN submitted a resolution that the several standing committees of the
                House shall fix upon the time for the consideration of each several subject referred
                to them, and their chairman shall give notice of the time and place of the
                consideration of the same by their several committees.
              It was laid on the table.
              Mr. CUNNINGHAM submitted a resolution, which was adopted by consent, that the
                Chairmen of the different standing committees of this House be requested to dismiss
                their clerks at the earliest period possible.
              Mr. ST. JOHN now obtained leave to return the substitute for his descedent's
                estates amendment bill [H. R. 10] which he said is identical with the original.
            
            
              THE CALENDAR.
              Mr. Martin's, of Putnam, bill [H. R. 29] repealing sections 3 and 4 of the act of
                February 12, 1855, concerning voluntary associations. Mr. Stephens' fish bill [H. R.
                30;]
              Mr. Biggs' divorce law amendment bill [H.R. 31;] Mr. Rhodes' married woman's bill
                [H. R. 34;]
              Mr. Taylor's bill [H. R. 35] for the amendment of the 3d section of the act of June
                17, 1852, for the organization of County Boards, &c., (to provide the cumulative
                ballot,) were severally read the second time and appropriately referred.
              And then, at 4 o'clock, the House adjourned till Monday at 2 o'clock.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            SATURDAY, January 14, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 9 o'clock A. M., pursuant to adjournment--the Lieutenant Governor in
            the chair.
          
            PRAYERS.
            The session was opened with prayer, by the Rev. W. B. Chamberlain, of the Fifth
              Presbyterian Church.
          
          
            MINUTES.
            The Secretary's journal of yesterday's proceedings was being read, when--
            On motion of Mr. JOHNSON, the further reading thereof was dispensed with.
          
          
            ABSENCE.
            Leave of absence was granted to Mr. Hughes, till Tuesday next.
          
          
            MILEAGE AND ACCOUNTS.
            Mr. DITTEMORE, from the Committee on Mileage and Accounts,
              submitted a report of the number of miles traveled by each Senator, in coming from and
              returning to his home, in the following words and figures, to-wit:
            Mr. PRESIDENT : The Committee on Mileage and Accounts would report
              that they have examined the question of mileage and find that members of the Senate
              are entitled to mileage as follows:
            
              
                Lt. Gov. Will Cumback, of Decatur co...............
                90
              
              
                Alsop, Joshua, Clay and Sullivan....................
                216
              
              
                Andrews, Alanson, Scott and Jennings................
                130
              
              
                Armstrong, Ad., Howard and Carroll..................
                128
              
              
                Beardsley. James R., Elkhart........................
                420
              
              
                Beeson, Othneil, Wayne..............................
                120
              
              
                Beggs, John, Franklin...............................
                152
              
              
                Bobo, James R., Adams and Allen.....................
                310
              
              
                Bradley. James. Laporte and Starke..................
                316
              
              
                Brown, Jason B , Brown and Jackson..................
                144
              
              
                Burson, John W., Delaware and Madison...............
                108
              
              
                Carnahan, M. T., Posey and Gibson...................
                462
              
              
                Case, H. S., Noble and Lagrange.....................
                400
              
              
                Cave, Leroy, Pike, Dubois and Martin................
                300
              
              
                Caven, John, Marion.................................
                
              
              
                Collett, John, Parke and Vermillion.................
                220
              
              
                Denbo, George W., Washington and Harrison...........
                264
              
              
                Dittemore, W. E., Green and Owen....................
                130
              
              
                Dougherty. Hugh, Huntington and Wells...............
                192
              
              
                Dwiggins, Robert, Pulaski, White, Jasper and
                  Newton..................................................
                250
              
              
                Elliott, James, Fayette and Union.,.................
                130
              
              
                Fosdick, Ed, W., DeKalb and Steuben.................
                400
              
              
                Francisco, Hiram, Jefferson.........................
                160
              
              
                Fuller, B. S., Warrick and Spencer..................
                428
              
              
                Glessner, Oliver J., Shelby and Bartholomew.........
                52
              
              
                Gray, Isaac P., Randolph............................
                168
              
              
                Green, John, Hamilton and Tipton....................
                80
              
              
                Gregg, Richard, Ohio and Dearborn...................
                178
              
              
                Hadley, John V., Putnam and Hendricks...............
                40
              
              
                Hamilton, Thos. M., Clinton and Boone...............
                100
              
              
                Henderson, E. B., Johnson and Morgan................
                62
              
              
                Hess, L. W., Henry and Hancock......................
                112
              
              
                Hooper, A.Y., Kosciusko and Whitley.................
                360
              
              
                Hubard, Lucius., St. Joseph and Marshall.............
                400
              
              
                Hughes, James, Lawrence and Monroe..................
                160
              
              
                Johnson, Arch., Montgomery..........................
                94
              
              
                Keigwin, James, Floyd and Clarke....................
                216
              
              
                Lasselle, Charles B., Cass and Fulton................
                154
              
              
                Martindale, E. B., Marion...........................
                
              
              
                Miller, Robert, Miama and Wabash....................
                170
              
              
                Morgan, Dr Daniel, Vanderburg.......................
                384
              
              
                Robinson, W. J., Rush and Decatur....................
                90
              
              
                Rosebrough, M. K., Switzerland and Ripley...........
                172
              
              
                Sarninghausen, John, Allen..........................
                268
              
              
                Scott, Harvey D., Vigo..............................
                148
              
              
                Stroud, John, Perry, Crawford and Orange............
                360
              
              
                Rteele, Asbury, Grant, Blackford and Jay............
                192
              
              
                Taylor, Henry, Tippecanoe...........................
                124
              
              
                Wadge, Richard C., Lake and Porter..................
                380
              
              
                Williams, James D., Knox and Davies.................
                203
              
              
                Wood, S. F., Fountain and Warren....................
                144
              
            
            In which they respectfully ask the concurrence of the Senate.
            DITTEMORE, WOOD, WILLIAMS,
                Committee.
            The report was concurred in.
          
          
            SUPREME COURT--ADDITIONAL JUDGE.
            Mr. Carnahan's bill [S. 45] for an act dividing the State into five Supreme Court
              districts, providing for the appointment and election of a Judge of the Supreme Court
              in the fifth district, and for the salaries of the Judges of the Supreme Court, makes
              the first district to consist of the counties of St. Joseph, Elkhart, Lagrauge,
              DeKalb, Noble, Kosciusko, Marshall, Fulton, Whitley, Allen, Adams, Wells, Huntington,
              Wabash, Miami, Grant, Blackford, Jay, Delaware and Randolph.
            The Second District to consist of the counties of Lake, Porter, Laporte, Starke,
              Newton, Jasper, Pulaski, White, Cass, Carroll, Benton, Warren, Tippecanoe, Montgomery,
              Clinton, Fountain, Vermillion and Parke.
            The Third District to consist of the counties of Madison, Henry, Wayne, Union,
              Fayette, Rush, Decatur, Franklin, Dearborn, Ripley, Jennings, Ohio, Switzerland,
              Jefferson, Scott, Clark, Floyd, Washington and Jackson.
            The Fourth District to consist of the counties of Howard, Tipton, Madison, Hamilton,
              Boone, Putnam, Hendricks, Marion, Hancock, Morgan, Johnson, Shelby, Monroe, Brown and
              Bartholomew.

            

            The Fifth District to consist of the counties of Vigo, Clay, Owen, Greene, Sullivan,
              Knox, Daviess, Martin, Lawrence, Gbison, Pike, Dubois, Posey, Vanderburg, Warrick,
              Spencer, Perry, Harrison, Crawford and Orange.
            The bill also makes the salary of Supreme Judges four thousand dollars each
              annually.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The following described bills were introduced and read the first time, and severally
              passed to the second reading.
            By Mr. GLESSNER, [S. 45], for an act to legalize the extension of plank, macadamized,
              gravel and turnpike roads beyond the terminus thereof, as set forth in the articles of
              association of such companies, heretofore made in certain cases, and to authorize such
              extensions to be made hereafter in certain cases.
            By Mr. FULLER, [S. 46] to encourage the destruction of foxes and wildcats.
            By Mr. CAVE, [S. 47], to repeal an act entitled "An act to discourage the keeping of
              useless and sheep-killing dogs, and providing penalties for the violation of any of
              the provisions of said act by officers and others;" an also repealing an act to
              license dogs, approved March 11th, 1861, and providing that nothing in this act shall
              be so construed as to conflict with the provisions of an act entitled "An act for the
              protection of sheep;" approved June 15th, 1852, approved March 2d, 1865.
            By Mr. BEARDSLEY, [S. 48], for an act supplemental to "An act to authorize and
              encourage the construction of levees, dikes and drains, and the reclamation of wet and
              overflowed lands by incorporated cities, and to repeal all former laws relating to the
              same subject," which act took effect May 22, 1869.
            By Mr. JOHNSTON, [S. 49], to amend an act entitled "An act for the protection of wild
              game, and defining the time in which the same may be taken or killed, and declaring
              the penalty for the violation of this act, repealing all laws inconsistent herewith,
              and declaring an emergency," approved March 11, 1867. [It proposes to amend the law so
              as to prevent the netting and trapping of quails at any time, except on the owner's
              land, between the first of October in each year and the first of February
              following.]
            By Mr. MARTINDALE, [S. 50], to establish Superior Courts, defining their
              jurisdiction, and providing for the election and compensation of the judges thereof.
              In any county wherein is situated an incorporated city with a population of not less
              than forty thousand, said court to consist of three judges, elective by the people
              every four years, and to have original concurrent jurisdiction with the Circuit Court
              and Court of Common Pleas in all civil causes except slander, and such causes of which
              the Court of Common Pleas now has original exclusive jurisdiction, and jurisdiction
              concurrent with Circuit and Common Pleas Courts in all appellant jurisdiction now or
              which may be hereafter vested in these courts, and con-current jurisdiction in all
              actions by or against executors and administrators.
            By. Mr. DENBO, [S. 51], to regulate insurance companies.
            Mr. D. claims that the enactment of a good, stringent law, similar to the insurance
              laws of New York and Massachusetts, with all the safeguards to policy holders which
              have been tried and provon to be good, would be the means of building up insurance
              companies at home, and thus not only stop a heavy drainage of capital from
              Indiana--about $10,000,000 annually--but would also be the means of drawing largely
              from ether States a vast amount of capital. One of the great safeguards necessary, in
              addition to a stringent law, is to make it the especial duty of some competent person
              to see that such a law is properly enforced, and investigate the condition and
              standing of every company before authority is given it or its agents to do business in
              the State. This can all be done without costing the people of the State a single cent.
              On the contrary, it should be made to add to the revenues of the State from $40,000 to
              $100,000 annually, and at the same time impose upon the companies a much less rate of
              taxation than that imposed by most of the States around us.
            By Mr. FULLER, [S. 52], prohibiting the Prosecuting Attorney of the Circuit Courts
              from entering a nolle proseqni in any State case without consent of
              the court.
            By Mr. BRADLEY, [S. 53], for an act to authorize trustees to sell real estates and to
              invest the proceeds for the benefit of the c'est qui trust.
            By Mr. MARTINDALE, [S. 54], to authorize married women to make contracts, rendering
              their separate property liable therefor, exempting such property and their earnings
              from the debts of their husbands, and exempting property of husbands from, the
              separate debts of their wives.
            By Mr. BEARDSLEY, [S. 55], to amend section 2 of an act entitled "An act for the
              redeption of said property or any interest therein, sold on execution or order of
              sale, and providing for the issuing of certificates of purchase in such cases, and for
              the execution of conveyances, and repealing all laws in conflict therewith," approved
              June 4, 1861.
            By Mr. CAVE, [S. 56,] to amend section 30 of an act entitled "An act providing for
              the election or appointment of supervisors of highways, and prescribing certain of
              their duties and those of county and township officers in relation thereto," approved
              December 20, 1865.
            By Mr. GREGG, [S. 57], authorizing and empowering the clerk of the Circuit Court and
              court of Common Pleas to grant restraining orders and temporary injunctions, providing
              the mode by which they may be dissolved or modified, authorizing and empowering the
              judges of the Circuit Court to hear and determine applications in cases pending in the
              Courts of Common Pleas, and authorizing and empowering the judge of the Common Pleas
              Court to hear and determine cases pending in the Circuit Court.

            

            By Mr. BEARDSLEY, [S. 58], to amend sections 1 and 2, of an act entitled "an act to
              amend the 13th and 14th sections of an act entitled an act providing for the election
              and qualifications of Justices of the Peace, defining their jurisdiction, powers and
              duties in civil cases, approved June 6,1852, approved March 9,1861."
            By Mr. FULLER, [S. 59], fixing a rate of interest on money, and repealing all laws in
              conflict therewith, and declaring an emergency. [No greater rate than seven per cent.
              to be taken directly or indirectly.]
            By Mr. MARTINDALE, [S. 60], authorising cities, towns and townships to negotiate
              bonds for school building purposes, and authorizing the collection of a tax for the
              payment of such bonds.
            By Mr. MARTINDALE, [S. 61], providing for the taxation of Water Work Companies, and
              associations furnishing water to towns.
            By Mr. BROWN, [S. 62], to authorize townships to aid in the erection of bridges for
              common travel.
            By Mr. DENBO, [S. 63], to establish an insurance bureau in connection with the office
              of Auditor of State--providing for an insurance commissioner, to be appointed by the
              Auditor, at a salary of $4,000 per annum, with bonds of $30,000, to see that that the
              provisions of bill S. 51 are enforced, the commissioner to appoint a deputy at a
              salary of $2,000, and such additional assistance as may be necessary.
            By Mr. MARTINDALE, [S. 64,] an act relating to insurance companies. This act
              authorizes the organization of insurance companies, life and fire, and prescribes the
              duties of foreign companies wishing to transact business in this State. It
              contemplates the establishment of an Insurance Department, and the appointment of a
              Commissioner of Insurance, but authorizes the Auditor to transact the business of a
              Commissioner of Insurance until the establisment of the Department.
            By Mr. BRADLEY, [S. 65,] to amend the 18th section of the act entitled "An Act
              regulating descents and the apportionment of estates," approved May 14, 1852, and
              validating deeds of conveyance made in contravention thereof.
          
          
            SESSION HOURS.
            Pending the order for the introduction of bills, on motion it was
            Ordered, That when the Senate adjourns it adjourns till Monday at 2
              o'clock P. M.
          
          
            FIFTEENTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
            Mr. FULLER, by leave, from the select committee thereon, returned the bill [S. 25]
              regulating the terms of courts in the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, recommending its
              passage without amendment.
            The report was concurred in, and the bill was ordered to be engrossed for the third
              reading Monday.
            And then came the adjournment till Monday at 2 o'clock P. M.
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORT.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            MONDAY, January 16, 1871.
          
          The Senate met pursuant to adjournment, it 2 o'clock P. M., Lieutenant Governor CUMBACK
            in the Chair.
          
            PRAYERS.
            Prayers were offered by the Rev. Robert SLOSS, of the Third Presbyterian church.
          
          
            MINUTES.
            The Secretary's journal of Saturday's proceedings was read, pending which--
            Mr. DWIGGINS made an ineffectual motion to dispense with the reading thereof.
            The minutes were authenticated by common consent.
          
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, &C.
            Mr. BEESON presented a memorial as follows :
            
              To the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Indiana:
            
            The memorial of Indiana Yearly Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends, by its
              Representative meeting, held at Richmond, on the2d of twelfth month, 1870,
              respectfully represents:
            That as a religious society we consider marriage an ordinance of God, and not a mere
              civil contract, nor a mere human compact, devoid of religious obligations.
            The original law of marriage, which is found in the second chapter of Genesis,
              describes a union, such as could originate from no mere human authority.
            Our Lord and Saviour. Jesus Christ, when asked by the Pharisees, "Is it lawful for a
              man to put away his wife for every cause," re-enacted this law and ordinance for all
              subsequent time "Have you not read that he which made them in the beginning, made them
              male and female, and laid, For this cause thall a man leave father and mother and
              shall cleave to his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh? What, therefore, God hath
              joined together, let not man put asunder. Matt xix. 4-5-6. "And I say unto you,
              whosoever shall put away his wife except it be for fornication, and shall marry
              another, committeth adultery; and whoso marrieth her which is put away committeth
              adultery."Matt- xix. 9.
            The legislation of all Christian nations and States should be based upon Christian
              principles. Hence, while the civil law may, perhaps, properly solemnize the marriage
              contract, it cannot properly dissolve it, except for the cause which the Divine Law
              Giver has himself pointed out.
            We are advised that there are seven statutory grounds of divorce in the laws of our
              State:
            
              --Adultery.
              --Impotency.
              --Abandonment for one year.
              --Cruel treatment of either party by the other.
              --Habitual drunkenness by either party or the failure of the husband
                to provide reasonable support for his family.
              --The conviction of infamous crime subsequent to the marriage,
                and
              --"Any other cause for which the Court shall deem it proper that a
                divorce shall be granted."
            
            We respectfully submit, that all these enactments, except the first, are contrary to
              the teachings of Christ and his Apostles; some of them actually encourage divorce, by offering it as a premium for crime, and the seventh is
              unknown to "common law," and grants such unlimited power to the Court, that by
              expunging the word "other" there would seem to be no need for the six proceeding
              specified causes for divorce.
            So much shameful fraud and corruption have characterized the administration of our
              divorce laws, and many innocent persons have been so cruelly wronged thereby, that
              great odium attaches to our otherwise fair record and reputation as a State.
            The inevitable tendency of such enactments is to unsettle the belief of the people in
              the religious obligations of marriage, and to degrade it to a mere contract between
              the parties, and thus not only to destroy its sacredness, but also its permanence. For
              as divorces for trivial causes increase, marriages are lightly contracted, and as
              lightly spurned; licentiousness increases, the public morals are corrupted, and the
              purity of society, and the affections and sacredness of home, are ruthlessly
              invaded.
            We do, therefore, respectfully, but earnestly, petition your
              honorable bodies to repeal all the Divorce Laws of our State, except that which
              provides for a legal separation of man and wife for the crime of adultery.
            On behalf of the meeting aforesaid.
            LEVI JESSUP, Clerk.
            Mr. GREGG presented a petition praying for an amendment to the Constitution, so as to
              relieve all disabilities of the rights of women.
            These petitions were referred to appropriate committees.
          
          
            EMPLOYES.
            Mr. DENBO, from the Committee on Employes, submitted the following
              report:
            MR. PRESIDENT--Your committee, to whom was referred the question of the number of
              employes to be appointed by the elective officers of this Senate, have had the same
              under consideration, and beg leave to make this additional report containing the names
              and duties of the officers of this Senate, to-wit:

            

            
              APPOINTMENTS BY THE PRINCIPAL SECRETARY.
              
                Reading Clerks--William McLean, Clement R. Cory.
                Engrossing Clerks--D. W. Browning, John H. Bradley.
                Enrolling Clerk--Miles R. Smith.
                Registering Clerk--Israel A. Beck.
                Secretaries' Page--Alva H. J. Denbo.
              
            
            
              APPOINTED BY THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY.
              
                Minute Clerk--John O. Hardesty.
                Principal Journal Clerk--David H. Olive.
                Journal Clerks--Moses C. Springer, Allen Jaques, E. J. Smith, Charles
                  Dailey.
              
            
          
          
            APPOINTED BY THE DOORKEEPER.
            
              Assistant Doorkeeper--J. F. Furnish.
              Announcing Messenger--Isaach N. Jonson.
              East Lobby Messenger--W. S. Eckels.
              West Lobby Messenger--T. Butler.
              Mail Messenger--C. S. Cookerly.
              Postmaster--Mc McDonald.
              Folding Clerks--T. W. Pease, J. M Cookerly.
              Cloak Room--V. Elliott.
              Fireman and Water Carriers--R. H. Moore, T. Borsey.
              Sweepers and Spittoon-cleaners--L. Martin, R. H. Lancaster.
              Committee Rooms--W. Shell, W. Anderson.
              Floor Pages--William McCarty, Lew Cornell.
            
            MR. PRESIDENT : I am instructed by the majority of said committee to report the names
              of the foregoing employes to the Senate.
            E. M. FOSDICK. 
            The undersigned, one of said committee, recommend that one Journel Clerk be dropped
              from the list of appointees of the Assistant Secretary; also, that two be dropped from
              the appointees of the Doorkeeper, and when so corrected, that said report be concurred
              in by the Senate.
            GEO. W. DENBO.
            In reply to an inquiry from Mr. WILLIAMS--
            Mr. DENBO said the Principal Secretary had appointed six clerks he may have to add
              one enrolling and one engrossing clerk. The Assistant Secretary has appointed six
              also. The Doorkeeper has appointed fifteen besides the pages. The officers say they
              cannot get along with a less number. The whole number is twenty-eight.
            Mr. FOSDICK explained that the majority of the Committee recommended a retention of
              the entire number, because it is the same number as were employed two years ago; and
              of his own knowledge he knew the Assistant Secretary last session was frequently
              engaged in his work late at night. For a few days one less might be gotten along with,
              but the work would soon be too heavy for a less number than has been appointed. As to
              the Doorkeeper he was not so well posted; but by a resolution of the Senate the
              Doorkeeper is to furnish and take charge of committee rooms, and if he does so that
              officer will require all the assistants he has appointed.
            Mr. WILLIAMS did not want the officers to work all night; but was satisfied they
              could get along with a less number of assistants than were employed two years ago. If
              we must have a man to the committee rooms besides the clerk, he suggested meeting at
              the rooms in our hotels and then the chambermaid--who generally does as much work as
              ten clerks--could clean up and take care of the rooms. If a clerk cannot make the fire
              Mr. W. would be in favor of dispensing with such an one's services and he would
              volunteer to make the fires himself.
            Mr. WILLIAMS made an ineffectual motion to insert the word "four" instead of the word
              "two" in the minority report where it refers to the Doorkeepers.
            The minority report was rejected.
            The report of the majority of the committee was concurred in.
          
          
            SIXTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
            Mr. DITTEMORE from the Select committee thereon returned the bill (S.22) fixing the
              times of court in the sixth judicial district with a recommendation that it pass.
            The bill was read the second time.
            On his motion the Constitutional restriction was dispensed with--yeas 38, nays 2, and
              the bill affecting the counties of Owen, Morgan, Monroe, Putnam, Greene and Clay was
              pressed to the final reading, and passed the Senate by yeas 40, nays 0.
          
          
            REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.
            The Lieut. Governor laid before the Senate the 18th annual and 5th biennial report of
              the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
          
          
            COMMITTEE CLERK.
            Mr. BROWN offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the Committee on
                Corporations be allowed a clerk.
          
          
            BILLS ORDERED PRINTED.
            Mr. MARTINDALE offered a resolution providing for the printing by the committee of
              200 copies of his bills [S. 40 and S. 41] to amend the common school law.
            Mr. BROWN moved to amend by including his bill [S. 19] providing for the re-location
              of county seats.
            Mr. MARTINDALE accepted the amendment.
            The resolution as modified was adopted.
          
          
            UNITED STATES MILITARY LANDS.
            Mr. KEIGWIN called up his joint resolution [S. 2] ceding to the United States certain
              lands in Jeffersonville for military purposes, offered on the second day of the
              session; and it was read.
            The joint resolution was passed by yeas 37; nays not announced.
          
          
            WABASH & ERIE CANAL.
            Mr. BROWN offered the following as a substitute for Mr. Cavin's joint resolution
              [S.1] offered on the second day of this session, and moved that it be included in the
              special order making the consideration of the subject of the Wabash & Erie canal
              the order to-morrow at 2 1/2 o'clock p. M :
            
              
                
                  Resolved by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
                    That the following amendment be proposed to the Constitution of Indiana:
                
              
            
          
          
            AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION.
            No law or resolution shall be passed by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana
              that shall recognize any liability of the State to pay or redeem any certificate of
              stock issued in pursuance of an act entitled "an act to provide for  the funded debt of the State of Indiana and for the
              completion of the Wabash and Erie Canal to Evansville," passed January 19th, 1846. and
              an act supplemental to said act, passed January 29th, 1847, which, by the provisions
              of said acts, or either of them, shall be payable exclusively from the proceeds of the
              canal lands and the tolls and revenues of the canal in said acts mentioned, and no
              such certificates or stocks shall ever be paid by the State.
            The motion was agreed to.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The following described bills were introduced, read the first time and passed to the
              second reading:
            By Mr. DITTEMORE [S. 66] authorizing Metropolitan Police Districts in cities having
              not less than 20,000 inhabitants, and describing their powers and duties, and
              providing for the government thereof.
            By Mr. BEESON [S. 67] to amend the title of an act entitled an act concerning
              licenses to vend foreign merchandize, to exhibit any caravan, menagerie, circus, rope
              and wire, dancing, poppet show and legerdemain, approved June 15, 1852.
            By Mr. BRADLEY [S. 68] to amend the sixty-ninth section of the general city
              incorporation act, approved March 14, 1867.
            By Mr. HESS, [S. 69,] authorizing, plank, McAdamized and gravel roads to enter upon
              adjacent lands to construct drains and ditches, and appropriate material, earth,
              timber, gravel or stone, by giving five days' notice--the amount of compensation
              therefor to be determined by appraisers.
            By Mr. SARNINGHAUSEN, [S. 70,] to repeal the second section of the act repealing
              sections 2 to 17 and 19 to 22 of the Registry law, approved May 13, 1869.
            By Mr. ARMSTRONG, [S. 71], to establish a rate of interest on judgments rendered on
              contracts.--shall bear the rate stipulated, not to exceed ten per cent.
            By Mr. BEESON, [S. 72], to amend section 16 of an act supplemental to an act of May
              6, 1852, concerning real property and the alienation thereof, and to provide for the
              sale and conveyance of the interest of an insane wife in the lands of her husband.
            By Mr. CAVEN, [S. 73], authorizing the organization of Voluntary Associations, and
              legalizing the acts of associations formed under laws which have been repealed.
            By Mr. BRADLEY, [S. 74], to amend section 8 of the act to enable trustees of
              religious societies or cemeteries to receive lands and donations and convey the same,
              approved June 17, 1852.
            By Mr. MARTINDALE, [S. 75], to regulate the publication of legal advertisements:
              Shall be published in a daily paper if such paper has a larger circulation than any
              weekly paper published in the same county.
            By Mr. FULLER, [S. 76], to amend section 2 of an act to provide for the protection of
              wild game, approved March 11, 1867, so that it shall be unlawful to shoot quails, or
              pheasants at any time between the 1st of February and October in each year.
            By Mr. SARNINGHAUSEN, [S. 77], in relation to promissary notes, bank checks and bills
              of exchange, and to designate the holidays to be respected in acceptance or
              presentation thereof--January 1, February 22, July 4, December 25 and Thanksgiving
              days, and when these days come on Sunday, the following day shall become the
              holiday.
            By Mr. BRADLEY, [S. 78], to provide for compensation of Judges performing extra
              service:--ten dollars a day, to be paid by the Treasurer of State.
            By Mr. ARMSTRONG, [S. 79], to authorizes incorporated cities and towns to condem
              stone and gravel needed for improvements situated within 1 1/2 miles thereof, under
              the same laws now regulating the condemnation of such material by other
              corporations.
            By Mr. MARTINDALE, [S. 80], relating to appeals to the Supreme Court--amending
              section 550 of the practice act, approved June 18, 1852.
            By Mr. BRADLEY, [S. 81], to confer power upon Circuit and Common Pleas Courts and the
              Judges thereof to appoint clerks and other persons to grant injunctions and issue
              writs of habeas corpus, and authorizing appeals therefrom.
            By Mr. JOHNSTON,[S. 82,] to legalize certain donations made by Boards of County
              Commissioners in this State:--in aid of railroads.
          
          
            SENATE BILLS PASSED.
            On motion by Mr. BRADLEY and Mr. WILLIAMS the Senate proceeded to the consideration
              of bills en the third reading.
            Mr. Bradley's bill [S. 1] to legalize bonds of cities issued to aid in the
              construction of water works, etc., was read the third time.
            On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE, and by common consent, the bill was amended by providing
              that no authority is given to cities to purchase any water-works constructed by any
              incorporated company.
            The bill passed the Senate by--yeas, 38; nays, 0.
            Mr. Fuller's bill [S. 25], regulating the terms of the Circuit Court in the Fifteenth
              Judicial Circuit, affecting Crawford, Perry, Spencer, Warwick, Posey, and Vanderberg
              counties, was read the third time.
            The bill passed the Senate by--yeas, 39; nays, not announced.
            Mr. Williams' bill [S. 35], amendatory of an act incorporating the Purdue University
              so as to provide for the election of four additional trustees of the second
              university, to be selected from the State Board of Agriculture.
            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, and by consent, the proposed additional number was reduced
              from four to three.
            Mr. TAYLOR stated that the bill met with the entire approval of the present Trustees
              of the University, and they desired the increase proposed.
            The bill passed the Senate by yeas, 39, yeas 1.
            The Senate then adjourned--under the rule--till 2 o'clock P. M. to-morrow.
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            MONDAY, January 16, 1871.
          
          The House met at 2 o'clock P. M., pursuant to the adjournment last Friday.

          

          On motion of Mr. NEFF, it was ordered that Mr. Wilson, of Marion, take the temporary
            Chair in the absence of the Speaker.
          The order of prayer by Elder W. F. Black, President of the N. W. C. University.
          The journal of Friday was read and approved.
          A message from the Senate by Mr. Cory, Secretary, announced the passage and signature
            in that body, of Mr. Cauthorn's Wabash River improvement joint resolution, and Mr.
            Devol's joint resolution for a memorial to Congress for equalization of pensions.
          
            PETITIONS.
            Mr ST. JOHN presented the petition of sundry citizens of Grant county, asking for a
              Board of Supervisors of Prisons and Reformatories, three to be women; and also for a
              reform in the jail system. Also, the petition of sundry citizens for amendment of the
              divorce laws, so that no divorce shall be granted, except for the cause of
              adultery.
            Mr. BALLENGER presented the petition of a committee of the Northern Indiana
              Conference for the same legislation.
            Mr. WILLIAMS presented the petition of sundry citizens of Union county for amendment
              of the divorce laws. Also, for a Board ot Supervisors for the Prisons and
              Reformatories of the State--three to be women.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Wayne--a petition for repeal of the divorce laws, excepting for
              adultery; also, for repeal of their most objectionable features.
          
          
            INTEREST ON JUDGMENTS.
            Mr. HENDERSON, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
              Rhodes' judgement interest bill [H. R. 14]. (It allows interest on judgments at the
              rates contracted, not exceeding ten per cent per annum,) with a recommendation that it
              be laid on the table.
            Mr. RUDDELL moved non-concurrence, and said: This same question was presented a few
              days ago, and after discussion we found the House about equally divided an the
              subject, and for one I feel that it would be well for this subject to be discussed
              still further before the final action. It is not by any means a question of trivial
              import. The time may have been when the majority of the people of the State were
              borrowers of money, and when it may have been wise to legislate upon this subject as
              we have done. But now that the State is out of debt, and when she finds herself
              suddenly in the possession of vast interests of which she knew nothing till recently;
              when she finds herself possessed of vast fields of coal of superior value; of vast
              mines of iron, of unlimited quarries of stone, and forests of timber unequalled in the
              United States; and when she finds herself possessed of the best railroad facilities in
              the- Union-I say when she finds herself possessed of all these resources needing but
              one thing to place herself in the foremost rank for wealth and power--and that one
              thing being capital--it does seem to me that this subject is worthy of the serious
              consideration of every member of the House. The great question is, how are we to
              obtain the investment of capital in the State? On that question we differ. Some of us
              suppose that we may obtain the employment of money here by offering the same
              inducements that they offer in other States--by offering to the creditor the
              protection which he finds in the States on our borders. And we think that by such just
              protection we will be able to secure the great object in a shorter time than by
              leaving the capitalists without protection. But we find persons objecting. The howl is
              raised by them, and they cry long and loud, that this bill is but in the interest of
              the rich, and unjust to the poor. I do not refer to the speeches that have been made
              in this House, nor to those yet to be made; but to the course to to pursued by the
              cross-roads and goods-box politicians, who perhaps never read a text book on trade in
              their lives, or if they have, they prefer to appeal to the prejudices of the ignorant
              in the hope of personal advantages by the accomplishment of personal ends, Now, Mr.
              Speaker, if we would look at this matter in a common sense way--as if it were a matter
              relating to individual or personal welfare, it seems to me that it would become a very
              simple question. Let us suppose a man establishes a woolen factory, that he is already
              for work, but lacks the necessary material which he must have to make a start. And he
              says, I will not go into the market and pay as much for wool as my neighbors. I must
              have my wool cheap. Will the result of such a policy be that he will be able to
              establish himself in business? On the contrary, he will not be be able to buy one
              pound of wool. He must necessarily overturn his establishment and placard it with the
              word "failure." Let us suppose again, that amongst the produce dealers of this city
              they will combine next summer, at harvest time, and say: We must have our corn at
              cheap rates. We will not compete with the Cincinnati or the Chicago prices of corn.
              The inevitable result will be that our city will find herself no longer a market place
              for grain, and the tide of trade will be turned from her, and instead of getting grain
              for her own consumption at cheaper rates, she will be compelled to pay even more than
              the current rates in other places. Now let us carry this s step further, and consider
              the principle in its application to the people of the State at large: The people of
              the State are lacking capital to develope their resources. The people of the States on
              either side of us are protecting capital and enforcing contracts, and the capitalist
              investing there feels assured that the laws will respect and protect his interests;
              and he will go there and invest; whilst the State of Indiana is so much in want of
              it--suffering and dying for it--and all for want of the inducements that will attract
              capital. We will allow parties to contract for ten per cent., it is true, but then we
              will allow the debtor to dodge his contract by letting it go into the judgment; and
              pay back his money at the lower rate.  The result
              is that the people complain that, while in the State of New York, capital can be had
              at the rate of six or seven per cent., in the State of Indiana it cannot be obtained
              at any per cent.
            Now, Mr. Speaker, let Indiana say to the capitalists and business men of the world
              that we have every inducement for men to come in here; that perhaps the hundredth part
              of our resources remain undeveloped; and above all, that we will enforce and respect
              their contracts and the collection of debts according to contract; and we will see
              money coming into our State until there will be an abundance of that which we desire.
              If we offer a reasonable protection for money, we will have the tide turned in our
              favor, and all that is now so much desired by those who affect so much sympathy with
              the borrowing classes, and their hearts will be made glad by feeing that mem can get
              money at 6 and 7 per cent. And when you once turn the tide of capital into the State
              of Indiana, it will remain here. You will find it the case here, just as it is now in
              New York, that capitalists will rest contented, and loan their money at much lower
              rate of interest than they will now afford. I sincerely hope that every member on this
              floor will consider this matter earnestly; and that gentlemen will not hesitate for a
              moment by considering how many votes they may lose by taking a position such as I have
              indicated. I ask gentlemen to do that which is for the common good, that which will
              work the greatest good to the greatest number--that which the prosperity and glory of
              the State will justify.
            Mr. HENDERSON. It is very difficult for me to understand an argument of the kind just
              presented by the gentlemen from Marion [Mr. Ruddell] What the gentleman says about
              moneyed men coming in from other States to develop our resources is not according to
              the little experience and observation which I have been able to make. Bat I have found
              that, when a man comes in with twenty or thirty thousand dollars; if he finds he can
              loan his money for 10 per cent. and enforce the collection of it in the judgment, he
              goes at once into the business of a common broker; and that is of but little advantage
              to the State. He does not go into the manufacturing business in which he would employ
              some ten or twenty hands, who are commonly poor men, spending at once the most of
              their money which they get for their labor, which goes into the general circulation;
              but instead of going into trade he sinks down into some petty banking arrangement,
              gets his ten per cent. on the judgment, and that oppresses the poor man and drives him
              away. I can see no force in the argument of the gentleman. I have never seen a poor
              man amongst my constituents who wanted to have a judgment against him for 10 per cent.
              interest. It is evidently the rich who want such a law. It is for the best interest of
              this country and every other country that the rate of interest should be even lower
              than it is. The State of New York has had this experience; and it was not the wealthy
              men that made interest lower there. It was the poor. And so it would be in this State
              if we had such a law as this bill proposes, but few rich men would ask to have it
              repealed. I repeat, sir, that it is exceedingly difficult for me to see how it can
              possibly be for the interest of the poor to pay 10 per cent. interest when his note
              goes into the judgment.
            The report of the Committee was concurred in without a division.
          
          
            COMMITTEE ROOMS.
            The SPEAKER now announced the special committee under the resolution of Mr. Williams
              to procure suitable rooms to accommodate the committees of the House, namely: Messrs.
              Williams, Wilson and King.
          
          
            EMPLOYES OF THE HOUSE.
            Mr. ZENOR, from the special committee on employes, made the
              following report:
            MR. SPEAKER--Your committee to whom was
              referred the question of employes, and to whom the Speaker, Clerks and Doorkeeper were
              required to report the names of their employes, respectively report that the following
              persons have been appointed by the Speaker, Clerk, Assistant Clerk and Doorkeeper:
            Speaker's appointments: Clerk, HenryHumphreys; Page, James Hughes Neff; Floor Pages,
              Ed. H. Cornelius, James H. Holman, Frank A. Morrison, George Tousey, P. S. Abbott.
            Principal Clerk's Appointees: Edward A. Vawler; Oscar Christman; Reading Clerk,
              August O'Brien; Registry Clerk, David Lasteller, jr.; File Clerk, Samuel O. Pitkins;
              Engrossing Clerks, Mrs. C. S. McDonald, George B Tebbs, James E Dorland; Enrolling
              Clerks, James Dritt, Daniel McDonald, Samuel W. Storrs, O. O. Steally.
            Assistant Clerk's appointments--Minute Clerk, J. E Neff, of Randolph county;
              Principal Journal Clerk, Alfred Leonard, of Laporte county; Journal Clerks, J. N.
              Annaubrant, of Clinton county; John Roberts, of Jefferson county; Robert K. Hamill, of
              Sullivan county; A. B. McDonnald,of Marion county.
            Doorkeeper's appointments--First Assistant, L. L Dale; North Lobby, P. H. Hart, O. E.
              Smith; South Lobby, James P. Tyler, Samuel Marsh; Firemen, R. P. Gibson, Reuben N.
              Tyler; Sweepers, Jerry Grady, Joseph Spaulding; Spittoon Cleaner, Joseph Eurick; Water
              Carrier, James W. Cookerly; Postmaster, Thomas Ryan; Postmaster's Clerk, S. S. Schell;
              Paper Folders, James Conklin, James Dilley; Doorkeeper's chief clerk's rooms, S. E.
              Caldwell; Coal and Wood, Jacob Martin; Water Closet, Adam Webber.
            After debate thereon, in which Messrs. Williams, McDocald, Calkins, of Porter, Zenor,
              Browning, Gordon, of Boon, Stephenson, Minich, Britton and Copner participated.
            Mr. GALENTINE moved concurrence in the report.
            Mr. RHODES moved to amend the motion  so as to
              retain the two additional pages appointed by the Speaker.
            The amendment was rejected, and then The report was concurred in without a
              division.
          
          
            CORRECTION.
            Mr. SIMPSON said he found, from reading some of the newspaper reports of these
              proceedings, that his absence on Friday has been accorded to his colleague, Mr.
              Deputy.
            Mr. RAWLES obtained leave of absence on account of sickness.
          
          
            RESOLUTIONS.
            Mr. COOPER submitted a resolution for an order that it shall be the duties of the
              several standing committees to whom may be referred the several bills of the House, to
              announce when and where such bills will be considered.
            Mr. NEFF suggested that such a resolution had already been voted to the table; and he
              also suggested some difficulty about ascertaining the "when and where" bills will be
              considered.
            On motion of Mr. WASHBURN, it was laid on the table.
          
          
            ROADS.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM submitted the following, which was adopted:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the Committee on Roads be
                    requested to enquire into the expediency of having the gravel road law so
                    changed as to compel gravel road companies to build and make a road of specific
                    width, grade, depth and level; and also what distance their gates may be from
                    incorporated towns and cities; and report by bill or otherwise.
                
              
            
          
          
            ASSESSMENTS FOR TAXATION.
            Mr. CALDWELL submitted the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the Committee on the
                      Judiciary be requested to enquire what further legislation, if any,
                    is necessary to secure a just, fair and equittable assessment of taxable
                    property within this State as is required and contemplated by the Constitution
                    of the State of Indiana, and report by bill or otherwise.
                
              
            
            It was adopted.
          
          
            SOLDIERS AND SAILORS OF THE LATE WAR.
            Mr. TEBBS introduced a joint resolution in relation to granting lands to soldiers and
              sailors of the late war--for a memorial instructing the Senators, and requesting the
              Representatives for the State of Indiana to use their influence toward the amendment
              of the soldiers' and sailors' homestead act of July 15,1870, so as not to require them
              to remove to and occupy said lands five years, as now required by said act.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            Mr. RHODES introduced a bill [H. R. 71] for an act to authorize married women to make
              contracts and transact business without the consent of the husband and under the
              authority of the courts. It was referred the to Committee on
                Judiciary.
          
          
            PROMISSORY NOTES.
            Mr. STONE, [H. R. 72], for an act to amend the 16th section, chapter 6, of an act
              concerning promissory notes, bills of exchange, bonds, or other instruments of
              writing, executed by any person who promises to pay money, etc. It was referred to the
                Committee on the Judiciary.
          
          
            RAILROAD PASSENGER FARE.
            Mr. McDOWELL[H. R. 73] for an act to limit the rate per mile for passenger fare on
              railroads. (Three cents per mile). It was referred to the Committee on
                Railroads.
          
          
            COLUMBUS.
            Mr. ABBETT--[H. R. 74] for an act to legalize the issuance of bonds by the city of
              Columbus for the construction of water works. (It proposes to legalize such bonds to
              the extent of $50,000.)
            On motion of Mr. A. (the rules being suspended for the purpose, yeas 68, nays 6) it
              passed the second reading and referred to the Committee on the
                Judiciary.
          
          
            SIXTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
            A message from the Senate by Mr. Cory, Secretary, now announced the passage in that
              body of the bill [S. 22] to fix the time of holding court in the Sixth Judicial
              Circuit.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF, the bill was taken up, read the first time and referred to a
              special committee consisting of members from said 6th Circuit, namely: Messrs. Neff,
              Guthrie, Major, Minnich, Mitchell and Walker.
            And then, at 4:30 o'clock, the House adjourned.
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORT.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            TUESDAY, January 17, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 2 o'clock p. M., pursuant to adjournment under the rules--the LIEUT.
            GOVERNOR in the Chair.
          The session was opened with prayer,by the Rev. Frost Craft, of the Third Street
            Methodist Church.
          The journal of yesterday's proceedings was read and approved.
          
            RAILROADS.
            Mr. CARNAHAN, by leave, introduced a bill [S. 83] to extend the time for the
              completion of certain railroads, and to legalize the acts of their board of directors,
              which was read the first time and passed to the second reading.
          
          
            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR announced the order for this hour--the consideration of Mr.
              Brown's concurrent resolutions declaring that the State will make no provision for the
              payment of the principal or interest of the old internal improvement bonds, except as
              provided in the acts of 1846-7; and Mr. Hughes' amendment heretofore offered thereto;
              and Mr. Caven's joint resolution [S. 1] for a constitutional amendment that the canal
              stock shall never be recognized as a debt; and a memorial presented in behalf of the
              holders of said canal script.
            Mr. HUGHES moved to postpone all that portion of the special order except his own
              resolutions, in order that a test vote might be taken as to whether the Senate will
              investigate and act on this question or not. Before he had concluded his remarks made
              at this time he modified the motion and put it in this shape, as to the indefinite
              postponement of the memorial.
            Thereupon a debate sprining up and was protracted till near seven o'clock Messrs.
              Green, Dwiggins, Martindale, Hughes, Brown, Gray, Rosebrough, Scott, Hooper, Johnston
              and Hamilton participating. [It will appear in the appendix to the BREVIER
              REPORTS.]
            And then--
            The motion to indefinitely postpone the memorial was agreed to.
            Mr. HADLEY offered the following amendment to the amendment submitted by Mr. Hughes
              on the 13th inst.
            Amend the amendment to the 2d resolution by striking out of the original resolution
              all after the word "dollars" in the 9th line thereof, and inserting the following:
              "and in the settlement of the interest on sixty-nine Wabash and Erie canal bonds,
              amounting to forty-six thousand six hundred and twenty-five dollars, as stated in His
              Excellency's message, delivered January 8th, 1869, was unauthorized by any law of this
              State and he is hereby authorized, in the presence of the Chairman of the
                Finance Committee of the Senate, the Chairman of the
                Committee of Ways and Means of the House, the Secretary,
              Treasurer, and Auditor of State, after having caused the same to be properly
              registered in the office of the Auditor of State, to burn the bonds and coupons so
              redeemed from the National Government, and required to report his action in the
              premises to the General Assembly.
            Amend the amendment to the third resolution as follows, to-wit: Strike out all after
              the word "old" in the last line of the copy thereof, and insert the following, to-wit:
              "Bonds of the State issued prior to the year 1841 and not surrendered under the
              legislation of 1846 and 1847, known as the Butler bills, provided that the Supreme
              Court of the State of Indiana, or the Supreme Court of the United States decide that
              such old bonds are a lien upon the public works inaugurated by the legislation of
              1836, or any thereof," so that said third resolution will read as follows:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, By the Senate, the House of Representatives
                    concurring, that this General Assembly of the State of Indiana will make
                    provision for payment of the principal and interest of the old bonds of the
                    State, issued prior to the year 1841 and not surrendered under the Legislation
                    of 1846 and 1847, known as the Butler Bills, provided that the Supreme Court of
                    the State of Indiana, or the Supreme Court of the United States decide that such
                    bonds are a lien upon the public works of the State inaugurated by the
                    Legislature of 1836 or any part thereof.
                
              
            
            On motion of Mr. DENBO this amendment was laid on the table by yeas 27, nays 17--as
              follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown,
                    Carnahan. Cave, Caven, Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner,
                    Gray, Gregg, Henderson, Hooper, Hughes, Johnson, Keigwin, Morgan, Rosebrough,
                    Sarninghausen, Stroud and Williams--27.

                  

                  NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Beeson. Collett, Dwiggins, Fosdick,
                    Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hubbard, Martindale, Miller, Robinson, Scott,
                    Steele. Taylor, Wadge and Wood--17.
                
              
            
            Pending the roll call--
            Mr. CAVEN explained that although he concurred in the main with the amendments, he
              was not prepared to vote for the destruction of the bonds, therefore he would vote
              aye.
            Mr. DWIGGINS explained that he voted "no" because he was opposed to disposing of the
              resolutions in this way, and not because he favored the amendments, for he did not
              concur with it.
            So the amendments was laid on the table.
            Mr. DWIGGINS submitted the following substitute for Mr. Brown's resolution and the
              amendments thereto:
            
              
                
                  WHEREAS, For some months past it has been stated in the
                    public prints that an effort would be made to have the present General Assembly
                    of this State purchase the Wabash and Erie Canal, and in payment thereof a sume
                    the payment of the canal bonds, the payment of which by the act of January 19th,
                    1846, and the act of January 27th, 1847, supplementary thereto, commonly known
                    as the Butler Bills, is charged exclusively upon said canal its bonds tolls and
                    revenues; and whereas, His Excellency Governor Baker did on the fifth day of
                    November, 1868, allow the United States a credit on the allowed war claims held
                    by the State against the United States of two hundred and seventy-seven thousand
                    three hundred dollars, which the United States surrendering to His Excellency,
                    one hundred and forty-one old internal improvement bonds of the denomination of
                    one thousand dollars each, and interest thereon to the amount of one hundred
                    thirty-six thousand three hundred dollars, which improvement bonds were issued
                    prior to the year 1846, under the laws to provide for a general system of
                    internal improvement in this State, which said bonds were purchased and held by
                    the United States Government in trust for certain tribes of Indians, and were
                    not surrendered under the provisions of said Butler bills; therefore
                  Be it Resolved, By the Senate, the House of Representatives
                    concurring. That it is inexpedient to take any legislative action on the subject
                    of the resumption by the State of the Wabash and Erie canal except for the
                    purpose of submitting the matters in some appropriate form to the people of the
                    State, and to protect the canal from sale and its revenues from
                    sequestration.
                  Resolved, By the Senate, the House of Representatives
                    concurring, that the action of His Excellency, the Governor of this State, on
                    the 5th day of November, 1868, in the settlement,of one hundred and forty-one of
                    the old internal improvement bonds, the principal and interest thereof amounting
                    to $277,300, is hereby approved by this General Assembly.
                  Resolved, By the Senate, the House of Representatives
                    concurring, that this General Assembly of the State of Indiana will make
                    provision for the payment of the principal and interest of the old internal
                    improvement bonds, not heretofore surrendered under the provisions of the acts
                    of January 19, 1846, and January 27, 1847, commonly known as the Butler
                    bills.
                
              
            
            Mr. DWIGGINS addressed the Senate in support of his substitute and Mr. BROWN spoke at
              length in reply.
            On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, it was
            Ordered that when the Senate adjourns it adjourns till ten o'clock to-morrow.
            Mr. GLESSNER made an ineffectual motion that the further consideration of this
              subject be postponed and made the special order for Friday week at two o'clock P.
              M.
            Mr. HUGHES demanded the previous question, and the demand being seconded by
              twenty-six Senators--
            Mr. HUGHES demanded a separate vote on each resolution.
            The first resolution embraced in the substitute was adopted by yeas 33, nays 11--as
              follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Andrews, Armstrong, Beardsley, Beeson, Beggs,
                    Caven, Collett, Denbo, Dittemore, Dwiggins, Fosdick, Glessner, Gray, Green,
                    Gregg, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper, Henderson, Hubbard, Hughes, Martindale,
                    Miller, Morgan, Robinson, Rosebrough, Sarninghausen, Scott, Steele, Taylor,
                    Wadge, and Wood--33
                  NAYS--Messrs. Bradley, Brown, Carnahan, Cave, Dougherty,
                    Francisco, Fuller, Johnson, Keigwin, Stroud, and Williams--11.
                
              
            
            The second resolution embraced in the substitute was rejected by yeas 21, nays 22 as
              follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Caven, Collett,
                    Dwiggins. Fosdick, Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard, Martindale,
                    Miller, Morgan, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, and Wadge--21.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown,
                    Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittmore, Dougherty, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg,
                    Henderson, Hughes, Johnson, Keigwin, Rosebrough, Sarninghausen, Stroud and
                    Williams--22.
                
              
            
            The third resolution embraced in the substitute was also rejected, by--yeas, 21;
              nays, 22.
            The question then recurring on the adoption of the substitute as a whole--
            It was rejected without a division.
            The question recurring on Mr. Hughes' amendment to Mr. Brown's first resolution, it
              was agreed to by--yeas, 26; nays, 17.
            Mr. HUGHES, by consent, struck from his proposed amendment to the second resolution
              all after the word "laws."
            It was then agreed to by yeas, 36; nays, 6.
            Mr. HUGHES' third amendment, which makes Mr. Brown's last resolution to read: That
              this General Assembly will make provision for the payment of the principal and
              interest of the old internal improvement bonds--
            Was agreed to by yeas 22, nays 21.
            The question recurring on the adoption of Mr. Brown's resolutions as amended--
            Mr. BROWN demanded a division of the question.
            The first resolution was adopted without a division.
            The second resolution was rejected by yeas 20, says 23.
            The third and last resolution, as amended, was adopted by yeas 23, nays 21.
            The first clause of the preamble was agreed to.
            The second clause of the preamble was also agreed to.
            Mr. HUGHES moved to reconsider the vote adopting the first part of the preamble
              because it is inconsistent with the resolutions as amended.

            

            Mr. BROWN made an ineffectual motion to lay this motion on the table.
            The motion to reconsider was agreed to.
            Mr. HUGHES moved for unanimous consent to strike out the word "exclusively."
            Mr. BROWN objected.
            On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE the preamble was laid on the table.
            And then--at 7 o'clock--the Senate adjourned till ten o'clock to-morrow.
          
        

        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            TUESDAY, January 17, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.
          The order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. Elgin, of the Second Baptist Church.
          The journal of yesterday was read and approved.
          Mr. GORDON, of Cass, obtained leave of absence till Wednesday noon on account of
            sickness.
          
            PETITIONS.
            Mr. BRUNER presented the petition of Wm. S. Gardner, of Ripley county, for allowance
              for a horse and saddle for Colonel Graham by command of General Hughes, for
              suppression of the Morgan raid. It was referred to the Committee on
                Claims.
            Mr. STEPHENS presented the petition of sundry citizens of Martin county in relation
              to the estate of Margaret Carroll. It was laid on the table.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Wayne--A petition for Prison reform. It was referred to the
                Committee on Prisons.
            Mr. WOODARD--A petition with reference to provision for the incurably insane.
          
          
            COLUMBUS WATER WORKS.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Committee on the Judiciary, reported back
              Mr. Abbott's bill [H. R. 74] to legalize certain bonds issued by the City of Columbus
              for the construction of Water Works, with a recommendation that the same do pass.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
              St. Johns' bill [H. R. 10] to amend section 43 of the Decedents Estates act of July
              17, 1852, recommending its passage.
            The report was concurred in.
          
          
            SMALL BIRDS.
            Mr. OATLEY offered a preamble and resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
              proper Committee to consider the propriety and expediency of reporting a bill for the
              protection of the nests of all small birds, at all seasons of the year.
          
          
            PRISON DIRECTORS--ONE BOARD.
            Mr. COGGSWELL offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the Committee on
                State Prisons inquire into the expediency of reporting a bill to abolish
              the present Boards of Prison Directors, and to create one new board--two to reside in
              the North and two in the South part of the State to have the management of both
              prisons.
          
          
            THE STATE PRINTING.
            Mr. STEPHENSON offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                Committee on Public Printing to inquire into the propriety of
              reporting a bill to abolish the office of State Printer, and let the printing by
              contract to the lowest bidder.
          
          
            SWAMP LAND COMMITTEE CLERK.
            Mr. CALDWELL offered a resolution, which was adopted, to authorize the
                Committee on Swamp Lands to employ a clerk.
          
          
            ROADS.
            Mr. OATLEY offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the Committee on
                Roads and Highways inquire into the expediency of so amending the road
              laws, that the roads may be changed on the petition of two parties, etc.
          
          
            MEMORY OF GOV. WILLARD.
            Mr. ST JOHN introduced a preamble and concurrent resolution authorizing Gov. Baker to
              place a monument over the grave of Gov. Ashbel P. Willard; and that any sum in the
              treasury not otherwise appropriated, not exceeding $1,000, be drawn from the treasury
              for that purpose.
            It was adopted without a division on the part of the House of Reprefentatives.
          
          
            RAILROAD FREIGHTS AND FARE.
            Mr. WIMER introduced a joint resolution for amendment to the Constitution of the
              State of Indiana, by adding a section to the fifteenth article, to the effect that the
              Legislature may pass laws establishing reasonable maximum rates of freight and fare
              for the railroad companies of the State.
            It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The SPEAKER now announced the order for the introduction of bills.
          
          
            THE IRON-CLAD NOTES.
            Mr. BELLINGER introduced a bill [H. R. 75] for an act making illegal and void all
              contracts for the payment of attorneys' fees by the promissory in such contract.
          
          
            REDEMPTION LAW.
            Mr. TEBBS introduced a bill [H. R. 76] for an act for the redemption of real property
              or interest therein, sold on execution or order of sale, and providing for the issuing
              of certificates of purchase in such cases.
            It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM introduced a bill [H. R. 77] for an act describing misdemeanors and
              prescribing punishment therefor.
            It was referred to the Committee on Rights and Privileges.
          
          
            MARRIED WOMEN.
            Mr. COPNER introduced a bill [H. R. 78] for an act to authorize married women to sue
              in their own names in certain cases, and to allow their husbands to appear as
              witnesses.
            It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
          

          

          
            RAILROADS.
            Mr. HINES introduced a bill, [H. R. 79,] for an act to extend the time for the
              completion of railroads.
            t was referred to the Committee on Railroads.
          
          
            NOTARIES PUBLIC.
            Mr. CAUTHORN introduced a bill [H. R. 80,] for an act to repeal section 7 of an act
              providing for the appointment of notaries public.
            It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
          
          
            THE CRIMINAL COURTS.
            Mr. BELLlNGER introduced a bill, [H. R. 81,] for an act repealing all laws creating
              criminal courts in the counties of Tippecanoe, Wayne, Allen, Vanderburg, Jefferson,
              Floyd and Clark, and transferring all business of said courts to the circuit courts of
              said counties, etc.
            It was referred to the Committee on the Organization of
              Courts.
          
          
            STATE CENSUS.
            Mr. WILSON introduced a bill [H. R. 82], for an act to amend an act providing for the
              enumeration of the white male inhabitants of the State over the age of 21 years. [It
              strikes out the word "white" in said act,]
            It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
          
          
            SHADE TREES.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, introduced a bill [H. R. 83], for an act to provide for the
              protection of shade trees.
            It was referred to the Committee on Rights and Privileges.
          
          
            PRIZE FIGHTING.
            Mr. MYERS introduced a bill [H. R. 84], for an act to prevent prize fighting, and
              prescribing punishment. [The sanction from $500 to $2,000.]
          
          
            THE DAVIDSON-WEAKLEY CONTEST.
            Mr. NEFF now called up the consideration of the special order, viz: The majority and
              minority reports from the committee on elections in the case of the
              contest of Robert P. Davidson for the seat of Otho H. Weakley as one of the
              representatives of the county of Tippecanoe.
            The majority report finds an admitted mistake of one vote too many counted for the
              contestee--which makes a tie. Secondly, a fatal irregularity in the election in
              Jackson township, by which, on the morning of the election, the Inspector removed the
              place of voting from Locust Grove School House, to or near a residence lately occupied
              by Cornelius Haynes, to Center School House, one and a half miles away from the
              advertised place of voting. Time and place are essential requisites in every election,
              which they argue at length, and set forth the authorities. This township gave a
              majority of 40 votes for contestee, which should be deducted. Third, the irregularity
              of an unlocked ballot box in precinct No. 2, Wabash township; the board of election
              separating before completing the counting, or certifying to the result; by-standers,
              not sworn, acting as clerk, etc. The majority propose to throw out the vote of the
              precinct by deducting 30 votes from those reported for contestee. Fourth, deduct 13
              illegal votes cast for contestee. One hundred Swedes from Illinois and Michigan,
              employed on a railroad in Tippecanoe county, and returning soon after the election,
              illegally voting the Republican ticket. Fifth, illegal distinguishing marks on the
              ballots cast for contestee, eight of which were rejected by the Board, in Wayne
              township, and if these 8 be counted for Weakley, still the majority of the Committee
              find a majority of 32 for Davidson, and report the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the said Otto K. Weakley is act entitled to a
                    seat in the Forty-seventh General Assembly of Indiana, as a representative from
                    the county of Tippecanoe.
                  Resolved, That Robert P. Davidson is entitled to a seat in
                    the Forty-seventh General Assembly of the State of Indiana, as a representative
                    from the county of Tippecanoe, and that the Speaker be now directed to
                    administer to him his oath of office.
                
              
            
            The report of the minority of the Committee on Elections (signed
              by Messrs, White and Sabin), find that the contestor and contestee are equal in votes,
              by the returns of Perry township; that the contestee is entitled to eight more votes
              in Wayne township; that three illegal votes cast for contestee in Wabash township
              should be deducted, which would still leave him a majority of five; we may allow that
              ballot No. 14, in Wabash township, and ballot No. 1011, in Fairfield township, should
              be deducted from contestee's votes, which still leave him a clear majority of three
              votes; whence the minority recommend the adoption of the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That Otho K. Weakley having been duly elected a
                    representative in this General Assembly for the county of Tippecanoe, of right
                    ought to be and hereby is, declared to be elected, and he is hereby confirmed in
                    his seat in this General Assembly.
                
              
            
            The question being on the motion to concur in the report of the minority of the
                Committee on Elections--
            Mr. CAUTHORN said: The question involved in this case is an important one, not only
              as it affects the parties to the contest, but also as it affects individual members of
              this House, who are by the Constitution constituted judges to try and determine it. It
              involves the right of the majority to govern, and bears directly upon the American
              theory of a representative Democracy. What is a representative Democracy? I would
              define it a government where the powers of sovereignty are delegated to a body of men
              elected by the people, who, in consequence of such election, exercise sovereign power
              for the whole. Such is the General Government of the United States and of the several
              States of the American Union. This House is supposed to reflect the will of the people
              of the State. I claim to represent on this floor the will of a majority of voters of
              Knox county otherwise, as an honorable man, I would not remain here. This question
              affects the rights of the freemen of Tippecanoe county to do the same as the voters of
              my county  have done. Tippecanoe is one of the
              great counties of this State, of which Indianians are justly proud, and her legally
              expressed will should not be defeated. Besides, she is allied to my county by more
              than ordinary ties. Hundreds of the ancestors of the people I represent sleep beneath
              her soil, having fell in defense of their country at the battle of Tippecanoe. Such
              being the case, I could not, without being recreant to my trust, contribute by my vote
              on this question in ostracising or thwarting the will of a majority of the voters of
              that county. I do not propose to do so. I am prepared to divest myself of all partisan
              bias and decide this question upon its merits, and I hope every member of this House
              is fully prepared to do the same thing.
            I shall endeavor to present this case to the House as it was presented to the
              Committee by the evidence. The contestor's notice of contest contains eight specific
              specifications. But the committee have already called attention to five. These five
              are as follows:
            1. The result in Perry township. 2. The action of the Trustee of Jackson township. 3.
              Doings of the Election Board in Precinct No. 2 of Wabash township. 4. Legality of the
              ballots cast for the contestee as to distinguishing marks. 5. Illegal votes. To bring
              the points involved before the mind at a glance, they may be stated thus: 1st. Legal
              capacity of the voter. 2d. Legality of the means employed to exercise the right. 3.
              The result of the exercise of the franchise
            I propose briefly to allude to them, and ask the attention and indulgence of the
              House. First. As to the result. The Board of Canvassers declared that Mr. Weakely
              received 3,410 votes and Mr. Davidson 3,409 votes, and declared Mr. Weakley elected by
              one majority. In consequence of that decision of the Board of Canvassers, Mr. Weakley
              received the certificate of election which gained him admission to the seat he now
              occupies on this floor. But Mr. Davidson contends that one vote was returned from
              Perry township more than he actually received. The evidence abundantly sustains Mr.
              Davidson, and Mr. Weakely admits it. Therefore must be regarded as having each 3,409
              votes; and the right of either to the seat must be determined by other evidence or
              referred back to the people tor decision.
            Second. As to the action of the Trustee of Jackson township, the evidence shows that
              for many years Locust Grove School House had been the only place of voting. But at the
              last election the Trustee on the morning of the election, changed the place of voting:
              to Center School House, a mile and a half distant, and gave notice of the change by a
              written notice posted on the school house door, and a crossroads near by. The election
              was held at the latter place, and Mr. Weakly received forty majority. This proceeding
              on the part of the Trustee can not be justified. It was his duty under the law to
              designate the place of voting, but he should have done so in a reasonable time, to
              enable the parties charged with duties under the election law to discharge them. The
              election law requires the Clerk to notify the sheriff twenty days before the day of
              the election of the officers to be voted for, and requires the Sheriff to notify the
              voters of the several townships fifteen days before- the election, that a poll will be
              opened to elect them. If the Trustee wished to change the place of voting he should
              have done so in time to enable the Sheriff to give the requisite notice of the place.
              The morning of the election was certainly too late. Time and place are essential
              requisites of every election. They must both concur to make the election regular and
              valid. The Trustee had no more right to change the place than the time, and hold it a
              day before or a day after the time fixed by law. Knowles vs Yeates, 31 Gal., p. 92.
              The notice given by the Trustee was no notice at all. He was not the party to give the
              notice in the first place, and it was not in time. Lewis vs. Young, 4 Iowa, 561.
            It therefore follows that the 40 majority received by Mr. Weakley in that township
              should be deducted from his general aggregate which leaves him 3,369 votes.
            Thirdly. The doings of the election board in precinct No. 2 of Wabash township. On
              this point the evidence shows that an open and unlocked box was used; that bystanders
              assisted in conducting the election; that the Board separated after counting out the
              votes without cartifying the result, and that the certificate was not made out for two
              days afterwards, and was signed by one Judge and the Clerk at different times and
              places, and not by one Judge at all.
            The proceeding was not in conformity with the statute, and to sanction such an
              election, will be opening a door for fraud. In my section of the State a conviction
              prevails in the minds of the people that the will of the people has been
              systematically defeated by fraud at the ballot-box. So loud became the complaint, that
              the General Assembly in 1867 and in 1869 passed laws to correct the evil and protect
              the purity of the ballot-box. The law requires that the ballot-box shall be provided
              with a lock and key, and shall be locked before ballots are deposited therein, and
              shall not be opened until the voting is completed. It requires the sworn board of
              election to count the votes and certify the result before adjourning. The election
              board in this precinct violated all these provisions, and the only question is: shall
              we sustain the law, or shall we violate the law by maintaining this unlawful
              proceeding on the part of the election board? I hold that the law, if right, should be
              enforced and obeyed; if wrong, it should be repealed. This election board no more
              required with the law than if they had taken the sense of the voters of the township
              by a viva voce vote, and consequently the thirty majority it
              returned for Mr. Weakley should be deducted from his general aggregate, which leaves
              him 3,339 votes. 4th. Character of the ballots cast for Mr. Weakley. The evidence
              shows that almost all the ballots for him were headed "Republican Ticket," all of  which were counted for him but eight votes
              rejected on that ground. If such heading of ballots renders them void, there is no
              longer a question in this case,as nearly all the votes Mr. Weakley received were thus
              headed. If not, he is entitled to have credit for the eight votes rejected on this
              account. For my part, I am willing to give him credit for the eight votes rejected,
              and increase his general aggregate to 3,347 votes.
            Upon this point the majority of the committe were not agreed in opinion. But this
              cannot create surprise, as it is now regarded as a question by the ablest jurists of
              the State, notwithstanding the decision of the Supreme Court on the subject. But
              supposing it may be regared as res adjudicata by the courts of law;
              yet it is not binding upon this House. The Constitution makes each branch of the
              General Assembly the judge of the election and qualifications of its own members. The
              Legislature is governed by a law peculiar to itself. And, although respect should be
              paid to the decisions of a tribunal of such learning and ability as the Supreme Court,
              yet its decisions are no more binding upon the decisions of this House than the
              instuctions of a judge to a jury trying a criminal cause. Such being the case, no
              member who thinks such heading of tickets renders them void can sustain the right of
              Mr. Weekly, as all his votes are nullified by it.
            Fifth. I now will notice the question of illegal votes. All I have just alluded to
              has reference to irregularities and illegalities, and I would long hesitate before I
              would decide the tenure of a representative office upon them alone. But the evidence
              in this case discloses the fact, that from March to as late a date as August, in 1870,
              as many as one hundred Sweedes came from Illinois and Michigan into Tippecanoe county
              to work on a railroad being constructed in that county, and returning when the work
              was done. The evidence further shows that the work suspended in November, and nearly
              all returned whence they came. They all voted in a body, and, from the evidence of the
              few who remained and were brought before the commission that took the evidence, they
              voted the Republican ticket unscratched. It is fair to presume that the entire party
              voted for Mr. Weakly.
            I hold that not one of these Swedes were entitled to vote. They came from a foreign
              jurisdiction into the State for a specific purpose and of returning when the purpose
              was accomplished. The law upon this subject is well settled, and parties thus coming
              into a State acquire no rights from such a residence, let it be of a long or short
              duration, as to entitle them to vote. The intention of a party determines his domicil.
              If a citizen of Indiana should go to Illinois animus urertendi and
              remain there any length of time, he would not thereby lose his citizenship here nor
              acquire any there. But if he should leave the State animus manendi
              and remain in Illinois but a short time and return he would have forfeited his
              citizenship here, and would have to acquire it anew. So in this case, these Swedes
              having come from a foreign jurisdiction with the intention of returning, had no right
              to vote, and having done so, and voted for Mr. Weakley, the number of their votes
              proven to have been cast should be deducted from Mr. Weakley's aggregate, which will
              reduce it to 3,302 votes.
            I wish it distinctly understood that I do not exclude the Swede vote on the ground of
              their being foreigners. I never believed in proscribing a man on account of his birth,
              I hold to the doctrine of expatriation and repudiation of the slavish English doctrine
              of natural allegiance. I believe it can be thrown off and new obligations assumed. I
              am in favor of making this country an asylum for the oppressed of all lands, and am
              willing to welcome with open arms the foreigner who comes to our shores, whether he
              comes from the vine-clad hills of France, from the Fatherland, from Merry England, or
              the Queen Isle of the Ocean, provided he comes as Ruth went to Naomi, and casts his
              lot and destiny with us.
            For these reasons I concur in the report of the majority of the committee, and hope
              and trust it will become the solemn and deliberate judgment of this House.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, wished to state a few reasons why he differs with the gentleman
              from Knox, (Mr. Cauthorn) upon some questions in the evidence and in the legal points
              which should govern us in this case. With that gentleman he cherished a high regard
              for the people of Tippecanoe county. He resided near them, and was acquainted with
              many of them. He was also, with the gentleman from Knox, in favor of the majority
              governing, not only in cases of elections but in all other cases; but it seems to me
              that there are many reasons why the minority report should be adopted. The vote
              reported is 3,410 for Weekly and 3,409 for the contestor. But in Perry township it was
              ascertained, after the election, that there was a mistake of one vote in the count;
              and Mr. Weakley appeared before the committee and stated that that was correct--which
              would make the vote standing as between the two parties a tie. As to the question in
              relation to the legality or illegality of certain votes casts, in other townships, it
              is claimed by the majority of the committee, and admitted by all, that 8 votes for
              contestee in Wabash township, were headed "Republican ticket"and thrown out; and
              these, it is claimed by the minority of the committee, and admitted by the gentleman
              from Knox, should not have been thrown out; and the Supreme Court has decided that
              these distinguishing marks do not invalidate the ballot. And yet the majority report
              holds that the House is not bound to be governed by that decision. But I hold that if
              the Supreme Court decisions are authority in all the courts, we are also bound to be
              governed by them. Then, if Mr. Weakley is entitled to these 8 votes, he has a clear
              majority of eight in the election. But then it is claimed that other parties voted
              illegal-  ly. It is contended that in the
              townships of Wabash, Shelby, and Jackson there was illegal voting; for instance:
              Ballot 41, voted by Adam Hammond, who was under age. And let me call attention to the
              fact that this party was not called upon to appear before the committee and testify in
              reference to this--that he was not of age; and there is a plain provision of law that
              express evidence of this kind shall be adduced. And there is no reason given why the
              voter himself was not brought before the committee. I undertake to say that it was
              their right and duty to bring before the committee the gentleman who cast that vote,
              and that the failure of the contestor to bring this evidence before the committee
              should be fatal to the assumption of illegal voting in this case. There is no reason
              given why he was not present, and he was the only witness that could determine the
              case. The committee's witness only stated in broad terms that Hammond was not
              twenty-one years of age. Then we have ballot No. 79, voted by Robert Pollock, and
              ballots 241 and 262--all alleged to be voted by persons not residing in the State six
              months next before the election. While it is stated that the evidence before the
              committee tends to prove the fact, it is by no means proven. Their witness testifies
              as to Mr. Pollock merely that he had not seen him since the August prior to the
              election. Now I ask if it is possible that we are to receive and legislate upon facts
              based on such evidence as this ? that we should allow such evidence to strike down the
              vote of a sworn citizen? Another witness in this case, I believe, testified that he
              had registered his name in a certain hotel in August, and that the register showed
              that he was a citizen of Indianapolis, and upon this they claim that he was not a
              citizen of the township at the time of the election. The Constitution requires that
              every voter shall be a resident of the State six months prior to the election, and
              shall be a resident of the township at the time he casts his vote. But I hold that the
              law declaring that the voter shall reside in the township is void--in conflict with
              the Constitution which overrules the statute.
            A message from the Senate was received at this time announcing the passage of sundry
              bills in that body, and requesting the concurrence of the House of Representatives
              therein.
            Mr. G. resumed and pursued the evidence and findings of both branches of the
              Committee--coming at length to the conclusion reported by the minority.
            Mr. BARNABY moved that the minority report be laid on the table; and the yeas and
              nays thereon resulted--yeas, 50; nays, 42--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbott, Britton, Browning, Barnaby, Bruner.
                    Caldwell, Cauthorn, Coggswell. Copner, Cox, Cunninghan, Curtis, Devol, Donham,
                    Galletine, Gentry, Gobie, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Hawley, Haynes, Hendersen,
                    Hendry, Holland, Hynes, Logan, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Minnick,
                    Miles, Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff, Oatley, Ray, Rice, Sansberry, Simpson, Shutt,
                    Stanley, Stephens, Tarlton, Tebbs, Walker, Warrum. Zenor and Mr.
                    Speaker--50.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Butterworth, Calkins
                    of Porter, Conner, Deputy. Friedley, Furnas, Gordon of Boone, Heilman, Hill,
                    Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Knight, Lines, Major, Martin of Wayne,
                    Martin of Putnam, Millikan, Monroe, Myers,Netherton, Rhodes, Ruddell, Sabin,
                    Sayers, Shoenemann, Snodgrass, Stenhenson, St John, Stone, Strickland, Taylor.
                    Washburn, Williams, Wilson, Wymer, Wood and Woodward--42.
                
              
            
            So the report of the minority of the committee was laid on the table, and the
              question recurred on concurrence in the report of the majority.
            Mr. BALLINGER moved non-concurrence with the report of the majority--not expecting to
              occupy the attention of the House to any considerable extent--deeming it useless. But
              he thought it fair that discussion should be had, because this is but the beginning of
              others that will follow. He had been much startled at the proposition that this body
              was not bound by law; that it is a kind of lawless body; that it is a law unto itself
              upon questions of this kind. It was singular that while gentlemen appeal tor authority
              to the decisions of other States--as California and Iowa--they will hold that the
              decisions of the courts of Indiana are not binding upon this body. He submitted that
              this is going a long way and taking very high ground to deliberately announce that the
              decisions of the court of final resort in our own State are not entitled to the
              respect of the House of Representatives; and that if this course is to be taken it is
              wholly useless to cite the decisions of California, Iowa, or Ohio. If he understood
              the ground taken by the majority, it is based almost entirely upon the irregularity of
              the election proceedings in two or three townships. He desired to call attention to
              the 15th section of the election act, and hoped that if members had no respect for
              opinions of the Supreme Court they will at least pay some attention to the statutes of
              the State. The gist of this section, as in Gavin & Hord, is to provide that
              elections shall not be set aside for irregularities, nor by illegal votes, unless the
              number of legal votes cast for the contested shall be below those cast for the
              contestor. Now this was just the case before us. They take from the sitting member
              forty votes because the place of voting was changed. If any case could be covered by
              this statute, this is one; for it will be found that the whole effort to unseat the
              sitting member is based upon irregularities in the election. He also called attention
              to the decision made by the Judges of the Supreme Court of Indiana, whom the party in
              the majority here have just elected. He proceeded to read at length from the decision
              referred to and to make his application of the doctrine held--coming to the
              conclusion, that the sitting member is entitled to his seat, and ought to retain it.
              When he had concluded--
            Mr. CAUTHORN rose to explain his allusion to the authority of the Supreme Court. He
              had not stated that we are not to respect  the
              decisions of that Court, but that we are not to be governed by the decisions of the
              Supreme Court in this case; because the Constitution says that this House is
              exclusively judge of the election and qualification of its own members, and there is
              no other tribunal that can try this case.
            Mr. NEFF, doubting whether the motion to non concur was in order, moved concurrence
              in the report of the majority, and demanded the previous question, but gave way for an
              explanation by
            Mr. TAYLOR, who gave his views of the case at length, coinciding mainly with the
              majority report; and in consideration of his personal connection with a pending
              contest for his seat, he asked and obtained leave to be excused from voting on the
              main question.
            After further explanations by Mr. CALKINS of Porter,and Mr. NETHERTON and Mr. DEVOL
              having been excused from voting--
            There was a second for the demand for the previous question, and the main question
              was ordered, vis: Shall the report of the majority be concurred in?--the yeas and nays
              thereon resulting--yeas 48, nays 40, as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Abbott, Britton, Browning, Barnaby, Bruner, Caldwell,
                    Cauthorn, Coggswell, Copner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Donham, Gallentine,
                    Gentry, Goble, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Hawley, Haynes, Henderson, Hendry,
                    Holland, Hynes, Logan, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan. Minnick, Miles,
                    Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff, Oatley, Ray, Rice, Simpson, Shutt, Stanley,
                    Stephens, Tarlton, Tebbs, Walker, Warrum, Zenor and Mr. Speaker--48
                  NAYS--Messrs. Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Butterworth, Calkins
                    of Porter, Conner, Deputy, Friedley, Furnas, Gordon of Boone, Heilman, Hill,
                    Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kilkpatrick, Knight, Lines, Major, Martin of Wayne,
                    Martin of Putnam, Millikan, Monroe, Myers, Netherton, Rhodes, Ruddell, Sabin,
                    Sayers, Shoenemann, Snodgrass, Stephenson. St. John. Stone, Strickland,
                    Washburn, Williams, Wilson, Wymer, Wood and Woodard--40.
                
              
            
            So the report of the majority of the Committee was concurred in.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF, the resolutions reported by the majority were then adopted,
              and accordingly Mr. Davidson received his oath of office as a Representative for the
              county of Tippecanoe, and took his seat.
            The House then took a recess till 2 o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed at two o'clock P. M.
            
              THE WILE AND SHOENNEMAN CONTEST.
              Mr. WILSON moved that the testimony taken before the Committee on
                  Elections in the case of Simon Wile, contesting the seat of Mr.
                Shoenneman, as a Representative for the county of Laporte, be referred to the
                  Judiciary Committee, together with the legal question already
                referred to said committee.
              After explanation and debate by Messrs. Neff, Wilson, Browning, Cox, Caldwell,
                Friedley and Cauthorn, the motion was agreed to by unanimous consent.
            
            
              THE CALENDAR.
              Mr. CAUTHORN's court bill [H. R. 3] fixing the time of courts in the Third Circuit
                was considered on the third reading.
              On motion of Mr. HINES it was referred again for amendment.
              Mr. Barnaby's Ohio falls pilot bill [H. R 19] was finally passed the House of
                Representatives--yeas 79, nays 9.
              Mr. Abbett's Columbus bond bill [H. R. 74] was finally passed the House by yeas 89,
                nays 1.
              Mr. Zenor's coroner's jury bill [H. R. 2] amendatory of the act of May 27, 1852, so
                as to reduce the number of jurors to six, was finally passed the House of
                Representatives, yeas, 89; nays, 0.
              Mr. St. John's bill [H. R. 10] to amend section 1 of the act to amend section 43 of
                the decedents estate act of June 17, 1852;Mr. Tebbs' court bill [H. R. 11;]
              Mr. Zenor's registry law amendment bill [H. R. 36;]
              Were severally read the second time and referred.
              Mr. Kennedy's bill [H. R. 37] prescribing the mode of sale of real estate under
                judgment and execution under a credit of one and two years, having been read the
                second time
              Mr. KENNEDY submitted a substitute including a clause that these judgments shall
                bear 10 per cent. interest.
              On motion of Mr. NEFF the amendment was laid on the table.
              The bill was then referred to the Committee on the
                Judiciary.
              Mr. Defrees' collection bill [H. R. 49],
              Mr. McDowell's exhorbitant fee bill [H. R. 52],
              Mr. Calkins, of Porter's Justices' act amendment bill [H. R. 56],
              Mr. Myers' Justice's act amendment bill,
              Were severally referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
              Mr. Wilson's Superior Court bill [H. R. 58] was read again and referred to the
                  Committee on the Organization of Courts.
              Mr. McDONALD asked and obtained an order for a clerk and a messenger for the
                  Judiciary Committee.
              Mr. Defrees' railroad aid bill [H. R. 61] was read again and referred to the
                  Committee on Roads.
              The House then at 4:10 o'clock adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORT.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            WEDNESDAY, January 18, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A.M., pursuant to adjournment--the Lieutenant Governor in
            the chair.
          Chaplain service being conducted by Rev. Dr. Harper, of the First Presbyterian
            Church.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were partially read and approved.
            Pending the reading of which
          Mr. SCOTT moved ineffectually to dispense therewith.
          
            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR announced the order to be the consideration of the subject
              pending at the time of the adjournment last night, viz.: Mr. Cavin's joint resolution
              [S. 1] for a constitutional amendment that the Wabash and Erie Canal stock shall never
              be recognized as a debt; and Mr. Brown's substitute therefor, namely:
            
              
                
                  Resolved by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
                    That the following amendment be, and hereby is proposed to the Constitution of
                    this State, and that the same be and is hereby agreed to and submitted to the
                    electors of this State for their ratification or rejection; provided, the same
                    shall be agreed to by a majority of all the members elected to each House of the
                    General Assembly of this State, to be chosen at the next general election, said
                    amendment to consist of the addition of the following section to the tenth
                    article of the constitution, in the language following:
                
              
            
          
          
            AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION.
            No law or resolution shall be passed by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana
              that shall recognize any liability of the State to pay or redeem any certificate of
              stock issued in pursuance of an act entitled "an act to provide for the funded debt of
              the State of Indiana and for the completion of the Wabash and Erie Canal to
              Evansville," passed January 19th, 1846 and an act supplemental to said act, passed
              January 29th, 1847, which, by the provisions of said acts, or either of them, shall be
              payable exclusively from the proceeds of the canal lands and the tolls and revenues of
              the canal in said acts mentioned, and no such certificates or stocks shall ever be
              paid by the State.
            
              
                
                  Resolved, further, That the foregoing joint resolution be,
                    and the same is hereby referred to the General Assembly of this State, to be
                    chosen at the general election to fee held on the second Tuesday in October, in
                    the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-two.
                
              
            
            Mr. CAVEN spoke in favor of the adoption of his resolution.
            Mr. BROWN replied--insisting upon the passage of his substitute.
            Mr. GRAY demanded the previous question, and there being a second by 26
              Senators--
            The question recurred on the adoption of Mr. Brown's amendment to Mr. Caven's joint
              resolution [S. 1], and it was adopted by yeas 25, nays 22as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown,
                    Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg,
                    Henderson, Hughes, Johnson, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan, Rosebrough,
                    Sarninghausen, Scott, Stroud and Williams--25.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Caven, Collett,
                    Dwiggins, Elliott, Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper,
                    Hubbard, Martindale, Miller. Robinson, Steele, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--22.
                
              
            
            Pending the roll call--
            Mr. BRADLEY, in explanation of his vote was understood to say that he favored the
              joint resolution introduced by the Senator from Marion [Mr. Caven] but as it involves
              no principle that is not already a part of the Constitution, he should vote "aye."
            Mr. DWIGGINS, when his name was called, in explanation of his vote said he did not
              wish to be understood as being opposed to the amendment proposed by the Senator from
              Jackson [Mr. Brown], but he liked the resolution of the Senator from Marion [Mr.
              Caven] better.
            Mr HUGHES preferred this amendment to the other, therefore he voted "aye."
            Mr. LASALLE, when his name was called, explained if this were a final vote perhaps he
              should not vote for the resolution, but inasmuch as it is a very important question
              now before the people, and can not take effect until ratified by the Legislature two
              years hence, he should vote "aye" in order to get the question before the people.
            Mr. SCOTT, in explanation of his vote, said he preferred this amendment to the
              original, for the reason that if we are going to pass a constitutional amendment he
              desired to get rid of this question entirely, and therefore he voted "aye."
            The vote was announced as above.
            So the substitute was agreed to.
            Mr. HUGHES made an ineffectual motion to lay the resolution as amended on the
              table--yeas 1, nays 46.
            The resolution as amended was adopted by yeas 45, nays 1.
            Mr. BROWN moved to reconsider the vote  by which
              the resolution was passed and to lay this motion on the table.
            The latter motion was agreed to.
          
          
            THE BURSON CONTEST.
            Mr. ELLIOTT offered a resolution requesting the committee to which were referred the
              credentials of Hon. John W. Burson to report the same at once.
            On motion of Mr. JOHNSTON the resolution was laid on the table. Yeas 24, nays 23.
          
          
            RULES AND ORDERS.
            On motion of Mr. JOHNSTON, the Senate proceeded to the consideration of the report of
              the Committee on Rules.
            Mr. GLESSNER moved to amend rule 17 by inserting between the words "that no Senator
              shall vote on any question" and these words "he is immediately or particularly
              interested," the following words "which the record shows."
            Mr. HUGHES accepted the amendment.
            Mr. GRAY moved the indefinite postponement of the amendment, and upon that motion a
              debate sprang up which was protracted until one o'clock P. M. [It will appear in the
              appendix to the BREVIER REPORTS.]
            And then the Senate took a recess till two o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Senate resumed the consideration of the order pending at the time of the recess
              for dinner.
            Messrs. Hooper, Dwiggins and Steele made speeches each nearly an hour in length in
              opposition to the proposed amendment to the report of the Committee.
            Mr. HUGHES followed in support of his amendment.
            At the conclusion of his remarks--
            Mr. HUGHES demanded the previous question.
            The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Gray in the Chair), put the question, and the Clerk
              counted 19 on each side.
            The yeas and nays were then demanded, and being ordered and taken resulted--yeas 24,
              nays 23.
            The motion to indefinitely postpone the proposed amendment to the rule was then
              rejected by yeas 23, nays 24.
            Mr. GRAY made an ineffectual motion to adjourn--yeas 23, nays 24.
            Mr. MARTINDALE made an ineffectual motion to lay the amendment of the Senator from
              Shelby (Mr. Glessner) on the table-yeas 23, nays 24.
            Mr. HOOPER made an ineffectual motion to adjourn--yeas 23, nays 24.
            The amendment was then agreed to by yeas 25, nays 22.
            Mr. DWIGGINS demanded a division of the question.
            The first amendment, which will make the daily sessions of the Senate to commence at
              10 o'clock, was agreed to.
            The second amendment, striking out of the sixth rule the clause authorizing the
              President of the Senate to appoint all committees subject to the addition of other
              Senators on motion--was agreed to by yeas 24, nays 21.
            The third amendment, striking out of the eighth rule the words "28" and inserting
              "31" instead--adding three standing committees on Emigration, on Insurance and on
              Railroads--coming up,
            Mr. DWIGGINS demanded a division of the question, and the first and second divisions
              were agreed to.
            The next amendment, requiring the Clerk to announce the name of the author when
              reading bills, was also agreed to.
            The report of the committee as amended was adopted.
            Mr. DWIGGINS made an ineffectual motion yeas 22, nays 24--that the Senate do now
              adjourn.
            Mr. HUGHES moved to reconsider the vote by which the report was adopted and to lay
              that motion on the table.
            The latter motion was agreed to by yeas 24, nays 22.
            On motion by Mr. BROWN it was--
            Ordered, That 200 copies of the rules, together with the names of the standing
              committees of the Senate, be printed.
            And then, at 6 o'clock--
            The Senate adjourned till 10 o'clock to- morrow--under the rules just adopted.
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            WEDNESDAY, January 18, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.
          The order of prayer by Rev. J. M. Crawford.
          The journal of yesterday was read and approved--till on motion of Mr. FRIEDLEY the
            further reading was dispensed with.
          
            COMMITTEE ROOMS.
            Mr. COGGSWELL submitted the following, which was adopted:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the Doorkeeper be required to furnish a room
                    for the Committee on Fees and Salaries and on Public
                      Expenditures.
                
              
            
          
          
            DELINQUENT TAXES.
            Mr. WALKER introduced a resolution that the Committee on Ways and
                Means inquire what legislation is necessary to enable the County
              Treasurers and Auditors to collect the delinquent taxes. He introduced this from the
              fact that there is a large delinquent list in the county where he resides, and he
              learns that there is great difficulty about the collection.
          
          
            SOLDIERS' AND SEAMEN'S BOUNTY.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY introduced a joint resolution for a memorial instructing and requesting
              the State's Representatives in Congress to secure the passage of a law to equalize the
              bounty of all soldiers and seamen of war of the rebellion. [$8 33 1/3 per month.]
            Mr. BROWNING moved its adoption.
            It was finally passed on the part of the House of Representatives--yeas 89, nays,
              0.
          
          
            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
            Mr. WOOD presented the petition of sundry citizens of Lake county for amendment of
              the divorce laws.
            Mr. STONE. The petition of sundry citizens in the same matter, which were both  referred to the Committee on Rights and
                Privileges.
            Mr. SIMPSON. The petition of members of two companies, with reference to unpaid
              service to repel raiders of the rebellion, which was referred to the same
              committee.
            Mr. MILES. The petition of sundry citizens of Sullivan county, asking the Legislature
              for an appropriation to assist in making a levee on the Wabash near Merom to reclaim
              about 12,000 acres. It was referred to the Committee on Drains and
                Levees.
            Mr. WILSON. A memorial from members of the Bar of Indianapolis, with reference to his
              bill establishing Superior Courts, which was referred to the Committee on the
                Organization of Courts.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The SPEAKER announced the order for the introduction of bills.
            Mr. BROWNING. [H. R. 85,] for an act to provide for the sale of lands returned
              delinquent for the non-payment of taxes, etc., the mode of procedure therein,
              prescribing duty of certain officers, etc.
            Mr. KIRKPATRIOK. [H. R. 86,] for an act in relation to the levying, collecting and
              expending the road taxes in the townships in this State. It was referred to the
                Committee on County and Township Business. [Road tax not to
              exceed 15 cents on $100 ]
            Mr. HAWLEY--[H. R. 87] for an act repealing section 2 of the act repealing sections 2
              to 17,19, 20, 21, 22, of the registry act of May 13. 1869.
            Mr. ZENOR-[H. R. 88]-[Coroners shall appoint special constables for inquests, etc.]
              It goes to the clerk's files.
            Mr. RUDDELL--[H. R. 89]-[Assignment of notes secured by mortgage to be recorded, and
              the assignee shall not be a party in the foreclosure.
            Mr. RUDDELL--[H. R. 90] for an act to amend sections 173, Art. 9, of the Civil
              Practice and Procedure act of June 18, 1852. [In relation to property sold by
              Sheriffs.]
            Mr.MITCHELL--[H.R. 91] for an act to define drunkenness, declare it a misdemeanor,
              and provide for its punishment. It was referred to the Committee on
                Temperance.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM--[H. R 92] for an act to amend sections 1, 25, and c3, of the common
              school law of March 6, 1865. It was referred to the Committee on
                Education.
            Mr. BIGGS-[H. R. 93] for an act to amend section 207 of Chapter 1. Article 10, of the
              Civil Practice and Procedure act of June 18, 1852. [In relation to change of
              venue.]
          
          
            DEPARTMENT OF ENTYMOLOGY.
            Mr. FURNAS--[H. R. 94] tor an act for the protection and further promotion of the
              agricultural and horticultural interests of the State, creating a department of
              entymology, etc. [To investigate injurious insects, and to collect and disseminate
              information in regard to them, the Governor to appoint a State Entymologist, to serve
              two years for $2,000 and his traveling and office expenses; and for this purpose
              proposing to appropriate $5,200 out of the treasury.
            It was referred to the Committee on Agriculture.
            Mr. CONNER--[H. R. 95], for an act requiring the County Commissioners to contract for
              the blank books, blanks and stationery for the serveral county officers.
            It was referred to the committee on county and township
              business.
            Mr. COGGSWELL--[H. R. 96], for an act to amend section 45 of the act to provide for
              the opening and change of highways.
            It was referred to the Committee on Roads.
            Mr. TEBBS, [H. R. 97], for an act to amend section 27 of the common school law of
              March 6, 1865. [In relation to the location of school houses] It was referred to the
                Committee on Education.
            Mr. COX, [H. R. 98], for an act to amend section 28 of the act of May 13, 1852, [by
              adding a section to provide for the abandonment of children by persons with property
              not exceeding $500 in value--the property to be sold for the maintenance of the
              children.] It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
            Mr. WASHBURN, [H. R. 99], for an act to regulate the sale of alcoholic liquors,
              drugs, medicines, and poisons.
            Mr. HOOKER [H. R. 100] for an act for the improvement of highways and providing that
              the same be worked, improved and kept up by taxation, and prescribing certain of the
              duties of Township Trustoes and Commissioners. (Road tax not less than 10 nor more
              than 25 cents on the $100, and the poll tax not exceeding $1.) It was referred to the
                Committee on Roads.
            Mr. HAYNES [H. R. 101] for an act to amend section 9 of the act to enable
              incorporated towns and to lay out, open and improve streets and alleys and to make
              certain plots, etc., approved April, 1837. It was referred to the Committee
                on Roads.
            Mr. GORDON of Boone [H. R. 102] for an act to amend section 2 of the act to provide
              for the protection of wild game, etc. (It shall be unlawful to kill quails and
              pheasants from March to October, except on the land and by the consent of the
              landowner.) It was referred to the Committee on Rights and
                Privileges.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, [H. R. 103], for an act to provide for taking the sense of
              the qualified voters of the State on the calling of a convention to alter or amend the
              Constitution of the State, and providing for notice thereof. (Election to be held on
              the first day of September next.) It was referred to the Committee on Roads.
            Mr. MAJOR, [H. R. 105], for an act allowing persons to make certain improvements on
              the public highways and streets, and providing payment therefor. (Such work to be
              credited as road tax.) It was referred to the Committee on
              Roads.
            Mr. HOLLAND, [H. R. 107], for an act to amend section 2 of the game law. (Fine for
              taking quails and pheasants not exceeding two dollars.) It was referred to the
                Committee on Rights and Privileges.

            

            Mr. BRUNER, [H. R. 108], for an act to repeal the fish law of March 9, 1851.
            Mr. RICE, [H. R. 109] for an act to amend section 39, of the act of June 17, 1852, to
              provide for the opening, vacating and change of highways. [County and township roads
              to be 40 feet wide]. It was referred to the Committee on Roads.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Wayne, [H. R. 110], to amend section 2 of the Registry act of May 13,
              1859.
            Mr. DAVIDSON, [H. R. 111], for an act to repeal the act of May 12,1869, to authorize
              county and township aid to railroad companies. It was referred to the
                Committee on Railroads.
            Mr. STEPHENS, [H. R. 113], for an act to amend section 77 of the act to provide for
              the settlement of decedents' estates, the duty of certain officers connected with the
              management thereof and the heirs thereto, and certain forms to be used in such
              settlements. It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
            Mr. McDOWELL, [H. R. 113], for an act to amend the act defining misdemeanors,
              approved June 14, 1852. [Invasion of trees, timber, fruits or plants to be
              larceny--fine not exceeding $200, or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days.] It was
              referred to the Committee on Judiciary.
            Mr. ST. JOHN, [H. R. 114], for an act relating to Boards of County Commissioners, and
              requiring such boards to publish expenditures, claims and allowances quarterly. It was
              referred to the Committee on County and Township Business.
            Mr. BALLENGER, [H. R. 115], for an act repealing the act to repeal section 81 of the
              act concerning real property and the alienation thereof, approved May 6, 1852. [He
              stated that it is to restore the statute repealed last session to make transcripts of
              deeds and mortgages evidence.]
            Mr. McDONALD, [H. R. 116], for an act to organize a Supreme Court and prescribe some
              of the duties thereof, approved April, 1852, and creating an additional judge, etc. It
              was referred to the Committee on the Organization of Courts.
            Mr. RHODES. [H. R. 117] for an act to amend section 1 to authorize Township Trustees
              and trustees of incorporated towns and common councils to levy special tax for school
              purposes. [Not exceeding 25 cents on the $100 and 25 cents poll--to secure net less
              than a six month school in the year.] It was referred to the Committee on
                Education.
          
          
            RESOLUTIONS AND ORDERS.
            Mr. STEPHENSON offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the Committee
                on Claims inquire into the validity and equity of the claim of Mrs.
              Rebecca Williamson on account of the services of her husband rendered at camp
              Stillwell as post surgeon in the late war.
            Mr. COPNER offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the clerk be instructed to
              prepare a table of the order of business as fixed by the standing rules of the House,
              and have 500 copies thereof printed for the use of the Speaker, Clerk and members.
            Mr. BROWNING introduced a concurrent resolution, reciting the right of John Barker,
              honorably discharged as corporal from the military service to his special bounty of
              $400 deposited in bank; and that the Treasurer be authorized and directed to pay the
              same to him out of the fund of the estates without heirs. [He stated that he had sworn
              statements setting forth the facts recited.] It was referred to the Committee
                on Claims.
            Mr. McDONALD submitted a resolution, which was adopted by unanimous consent that the
              Hon. R. P. Davidson, of Tippecanoe county, be added to the Committee on the
                Judiciary, and also to the Committee on the Organization of
                Courts.
            Mr. MILES offered a resolution that the further services of the Messenger to the
                Judiciary Committee be dispensed with.
            After debate by Messrs. Miles, Copner, Martin, of Putnam, McDonald, Simpson,
              Browning, Friedley, Cunningham, Ruddell and Neff--
            Mr. BALLENGER demanded the yeas and nays, which, being ordered and taken,
              resulted--yeas, 41; nays, 50--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Bitton, Butterworth,
                    Caldwell, Conner, Defrees, Deputy, Devol Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Heilman.
                    Hendry, Hill, Hooker, Knight, Lines, Major, Martin of Putnam, Minick, Miles,
                    Millikan, Monroe, Myers, Netherton, Rhodes, Ruddell, Stansberry, Shoenemann,
                    Snodgrass, Stanley, Stephenson, Stone, Taughinbaugh, Walker, Washburn, Warrum,
                    Williams, Zenor.
                  NAYS--Messrs Abbott. Browning, Barnaby, Bruner, Cauthorn,
                    Coggswell. Copner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Davidson, Donham, Friediey, Furnas,
                    Galletine, Goble, Gordon of Boone, Gordon of Cass, Hawley, Haynes, Henderson,
                    Holland, Hynes, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Logan, Martin of Wayne, McDonald,
                    McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff, Oatley, Ray, Sabin,
                    Simpson, Shutt, Stephens, St. John, Strickland, Tarlton, Taylor, Tebbs, Wilson,
                    Wymer, Wood, Woodard, Mr. Speaker.
                
              
            
            So the resolution was rejected.
          
          
            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL--INTERNAL IMPROVEMENT BONDS.
            A message from the Senate, by Mr. Cory, Secretary, announced the passage on the part
              of that body of concurrent resolutions declaring it inexpedient to take legislative
              action on the subject of the Wabash and Erie Canal, except for the protection and
              prevention of the sale thereof; and that the State make provision for the payment of
              the old internal improvement bonds--requesting the concurrence of the House of
              Representatives.
            Mr. submitted an order, which was adopted by unanimous consent, that Mr. St. John, of
              Grant county, be added to the Committee on the Judiciary.
            Mr. ST. JOHN asked to be excused from service on the Committees on the Trust Fund and
              the Sinking Fund.
            It was so ordered by unanimous consent.
          
          
            UNITED STATES JURISDICTION.
            The Senate joint resolution No. 2, ceding to the United States the jurisdiction of
              certain lands (175 tenths acres) in Jeffersonville,  Indiana, for military purposes, was taken up and passed on
              the part of the House of Representatives by yeas 95, noes 0.
          
          
            COMMON SCHOOL LAW.
            Mr. HARDIN (by unanimous consent) offered a resolution, which was adopted, That the
                Committee on Education be instructed to inquire as to the
              expediency of amending the school law so as to prohibit those having no children from
              voting on propositions to select the teachers.
            The House then took a recess till 2 o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed at 2 o'clock p. m., and announced the order of the consideration
              of bills from the Senate on their first reading.
            
              LAPORTE CITY WATERWORKS BONDS.
              The bill [S. 1] to legalize the Laporte waterworks bonds coming up in order
              On motion of Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, (the rules and constitutional provision having
                been suspended for the purpose), the bill was read the second time, and ordered to
                the third reading.
              The Senate 3d Circuit Court bill [S.35],and the bill [S. 39] to add three members
                of the Board of Agriculture to the Board of Trustees of Purdue University, were read
                and ordered to the second reading.
              The SPEAKER then announced the consideration of bills on the Calendar originating
                in the House of Representatives.
              A message from the Senate by Mr. Cory, Secretary, announced the passage in that
                body of a joint resolution for amendment of the State Constitution with reference to
                the settlement with the State bondholders and owners of the Wabash and Erie canal
                requesting the concurrence of the House of Representatives.
            
            
              WIDOW'S EXEMPTION.
              Mr. St. John's decedents' estate amendment bill [H. R. 10] came up in order on the
                third reading. It provides that where the widows exemption of $500 can not be made
                out of personal estate of the decedent it shall be made up out of the realty. It was
                finally passed by the House of Representatives Yeas 88, nays 5.
              Mr. Tebbs Common Pleas Court bill [H. R. 11] was finally passed the House of
                Representatives; yeas, 89; nays, 0.
            
            
              GAME LAW.
              Mr. Defree's Game Law amendment bill [H. R. 62], coming up on the second
                reading,
              Mr. HARDIN proposed to amend by adding a provision that nothing herein shall be so
                construed as to prohibit land owners from taking game on their own premises.
              Mr. COX proposed to amend by extending the time of game protection till
                October.
              Mr. CALKINS proposed to amend by striking out "bobolink."
              Mr. HAWLEYby adding "turkey-buzzard."
              The subject was finally referred again to the Committee on Rights and
                  Privileges.
            
            
              RAILROAD AID.
              Mr. Millikan's county and township railroad aid bill, [H. R. 64], coming up on the
                second reading, and receiving sundry propositions to amend, the whole subject was
                referred to the Committee on Railroads.
              The SPEAKER laid before the House the report of the Superintendent of Public
                Instruction for the year 1870.
              Mr. McDonald's Supreme Court Judge bill [H. R. 68] was read a second time and
                referred to the Committee on the Organization of Courts.
              Mr. Wilson's census law amendment bill [H. R. 82] was passed to the engrossment and
                third reading.
              Mr. Myers' prize fighting prohibition bill [H. R. 84] was also passed to the
                engrossment.
            
            
              COURT OF COMMON PLEAS.
              Mr. BALLENGER submitted a preamble and resolution reciting the facts and directing
                the Committee on the Organization of Courts to inquire into the
                expediency, propriety and economy of abolishing the Court of Common Pleas, and that
                the business thereof be done by the Circuit Court and report by bill or
                otherwise.
              It was referred to the Committee on the Organization of
                Courts.
            
            
              WABASH AND ERIE CANAL SETTLEMENT.
              On the motion of Mr. NEFF, his joint resolution for amendment to the Constitution
                so as to prohibit the Legislature forever from making back the Wabash and Erie
                canal, introduced by him on the 5th of January, was taken up. The joint resolution
                is as follows:
              
                
                  
                    WHEREAS, By an act of the Legislature of the State of
                      Indiana, approved January 19, 1846,and entitled "an act to provide for the
                      Funded Debt of the State of Indiana, and for the completion of the Wabash and
                      Erie canal to Evansville," and an act supplementary thereto passed January 27,
                      1847. He said State of Indiana conveyed the Wabash and Erie canal (including
                      eight hundred thousand acres of land) in trust for her bondholders.
                    AND WHEREAS, Said arrangement was made
                      at the instance of the creditors of said State, and was regarded as an
                      equitable and just settlement between said State and the holders of
                      certificates of stock or bonds of the Wabash and Erie canal issued by said
                      State.
                    Therefore, be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of
                        Indiana, That the following amendment shall become a part of the
                      Constitution of the State of Indiana when the same shall be agreed to by a
                      majority of the members elected to each of the two Houses of the present
                      Legislature, and the amendment shall be entered in the journals of each House
                      of the present Legislature, and the same is hereby referred to the General
                      Assembly of the State of Indiana, to be chosen at the next general election
                      to-wit:
                  
                
              
            
            
              AMENDMENT.
              That the Legislature of the State of Indiana is forever prohibited from purchasing
                or taking back the Wabash and Erie Canal, and said Legislature is prohibited forever
                from paying or assuming the payment, or issuing bonds in lieu of the bonds or
                certificates of stock issued by the State of Indiana under the above recited acts.
                And any act of the said Legislature which shall be passed authorizing the payment of
                said bonds, or funding the same, or in any way recognizing them as valid
                indebtedness of said State, shall be void.

              

              Mr. NEFF asked that the further consideration of this joint resolution be postponed
                and that it be made the special order for next Tuesday at 2 1/2 o'clock P. M.
              The SPEAKER. The Chair suggests to the gentleman that it might be better to let all
                the propositions with reference to constitutional amendments be included in the same
                special order.
              Mr. NEFF acquiesced "congest."
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, suggested that his convention bill be included in the
                order.
              Mr. NEFF objected.
              Whereupon it was ordered that Mr. Neff's joint resolution be made the special order
                for Tuesday at 2 1/2 o'clock.
            
            
              TOWNSHIP SCHOOL DIRECTORS.
              Mr. BROWNING (by unanimous consent) introduced a bill [H. R. 118] for an act to
                amend section 31 of the school law. [To allow School Directors $1 50 a day out of
                the township fund ]
              Mr. MITCHELL, (by unanimous consent) presented the copy of a resolution adopted at
                a public meeting of the citizens of Bloomington, held on the evening of January 16,
                1871, instructing their Ssnator (Mr. Hughes) and their Representative (Mr. Mitchell)
                to seek such an amendment of the liquor law as to require the applicant for lisense
                to sell to be signed by a majority.
              It was referred to the Committee on Temperance.
              The SPEAKER laid before the House the invitation of Good Templars to all members of
                the General Assembly to attend the temperance mass meeting to be held to-night in
                the Christian Chapel, corner of Ohio and Delaware streets.
              Mr. HOLMAN submitted a resolution directing tho Doorkeeper, during the present
                session, to procure ten copies of the Sunday Post, to be wrapped and stamped, for
                each member of this House.
              Mr. STONE proposed to amend by inserting "and ten copies of the Indiana
                American."
              Mr. SIMPSON proposed a substitute that we take the same number of all the weekly
                papers.
              Mr. HAWLEY proposed to substitute six instead of ten copies.
              Mr. HEILMAN accepted the modification.
              Mr. McDONALD had supposed that by the adoption of the report of the special
                committee on this subject, we had definitely arranged to have so many papers; and
                that the people of the State, by receiving these papers containing the proceedings
                of the General Assembly, would be benefitted. But, he continued, I find that I have
                been mistaken. I find that but few of these papers--but the JOURNAL and the
                SENTINEL--are publishing the proceedings of this House to any extent. And, if I had
                my way, I would strike from the list all newspapers that do not publish these
                proceedings in full. If it is in order now, I will make that as an amendment here,
                and put it in writing.
              The SPEAKER. It would not be in order.
              Mr. McDONALD moved to lay the whole subject on the table.
              The motion was rejected, and the question recurred on Mr. Simpson's amendment to
                the amendment of Mr. Stone.
              On motion of Mr. BRIGGS the amendment and the amendment to the amendment were laid
                on the table table--
              And then the original resolution was adopted.
            
            
              15TH AMENDMENT.
              Mr. COPNER submitted a preamble and concurrent resolution, reciting that the
                Constitution of the State of Indiana prohibits negroes and mulattoes from voting,
                and prescribes modes for the amendment of that instrument; and therefore that the
                State of Indiana protests against her vote being counted for or against the
                Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States until the matter shall
                have first been considered and decided by the people of the State in the shape of an
                amendment to the State Constitution.
              On motion of Mr. SIMPSON it was referred to the Committee on Federal
                  Relations.
            
            
              DISPENSING POISON.
              Mr. HAWLEY introduced a bill [H. R. 119], for an act to regulate the dispensing and
                retailing of drugs, medicines and chemicals. [The package of poison shall have
                pasted on it the word "poison," and a prescription of one dose of the antidote.]
            
            
              TAXATION OF U. S. BONDS.
              Mr. WALKER (by unanimous consent) introduced a joint resolution for a memorial
                instructing the State Senators, and requesting the State Representatives in Congress
                to use their influence to secure the passage of a law taxing all United States bonds
                as other property is taxed.
              It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
              Mr. RHODES (by unanimous consent) introduced a bill [H. R. 120] for an act to amend
                section 7 of the act to regulate the license and sale of liquors, etc., approved
                March 5, 1869 [The amendment requires a majority for the applicant, and his bond in
                the sum of $500, conditioned that he will keep an orderly house and pay all fines
                that may be assessed against him for the violation of this act.]
              The House then, at 4 o'clock, adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            THURSDAY, January 19, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A. M., the Lieutenant Governor in the Chair.
          After the reading of prayers by Rev. Benjamin Franklin, of Christ's Church--
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read, corrected and
            approved.
          
            MESSAGES FROM THE GOVERNOR.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR laid before the Senate the printed report of the Agent of
              State, and a communication from the Governor, embracing documents with regard to the
              acquisition of lands in this State to be used for a National Cemetery and for light
              house purposes. The Governor recommends the granting of the said requests, and states
              that he has prepared a bill covering the subject, which will be presented by a member
              of the legislature. The cemeteries are to be at Crown Hill and near New Albany.
            The communications were referred to appointed committees.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR also laid before the Senate a communication from the Governor
              as to the rights of French and Bavarian citizens to inherit property, recommending the
              modification of laws on the subject of alienage.
            It was referred to the Judiciary Committee.
          
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, &C.
            Mr. BEESON presented two memorials, one on the subject of prison reform, praying for
              the appointment of a Board of Supervisors, three of which shall be women; an
              intermediate State prison, &c.; and another from Wayne county, praying for the
              repeal of all divorce laws except for the crime of adultery.
            Mr. BRADLEY presented a printed report from the Trustees of the State University.
            Mr. HUGHES took pleasure in presenting the proceedings of a public meeting in the
              county of Monroe on the 16th instant, instructing their State Senator and
              Representative to favor the enactment of certain amendments to the liquor law.
            Mr. GREGG presented a petition from Dearborn county, praying for relief from persons
              entering lands and destroying birds, without permission from the owner.
            Mr. KEIGWIN presented a petition from lawyers of the county of Floyd praying for
              increase of the pay of judicial officers.
            Mr. DAUGHERTY presented a petition from Wells county, praying for a law suppressing
              the traffic in intoxicating liquors as a beverage.
            They were severally referred to appropriate committees.
          
          
            SOLDIERS OF 1861.
            Mr. DAUGHERTY, from the Committee on Military Affairs, returned
              the joint resolution, [S. 4], in regard to the pre-emption of homestead lands by
              soldiers and sailors--exempting them from residing on the same five years;
              recommending its passage.
            On motion by Mr. GREGG, the order of business was suspended, and the resolution was
              passed by yeas 47, nays 0.
          
          
            CASS AND MIAMI COUNTIES.
            Mr. LASALLE, from the Committee on organization of Courts of
                Justice, returned the Twenty-fifth Common Pleas Judicial District Court
              bill [S. 23] with amendments.
            Mr. MARTINDALE and Mr. WOOD, fromthe same committee, understood there was to be no
              report from this committee to-day.
            Mr. LASALLE thereupon withdrew the report by consent.
          
          
            HUNTING AND FISHING.
            Mr. JOHNSTON, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges of the Inhabitants
                of the State, returned his bill [S. 2] to prevent hunting and fishing in
              the enclosure of others, with amendments, and when so amended recommended its
              passage.
            Mr. BRADLEY thought it not competent to say a man is guilty of malicious trespass
              unless some malice is shown.
            Mr. JOHNSTON declared the provision to to be in accord with other clauses in our
              statute books; and thought this as moderate and as mild a law as we could have on this
              subject. The men who usually commit these trespasses belong to a class from whom the
              price of a shoat can not be recovered by process of law, and the only way to reach
              them is to make them malicious trespassers and punish them by fine and
              imprisonment.

            

            Mr. KEIGWIN made an ineffectual motion--yeas 13, nays 34--to lay the report and bill
              on the table.
            Mr. BRADLEY moved that the bill be referred to the Judiciary Committee.
            Mr. DITTEMORE made an ineffectual motion to lay this motion on the table.
            An amendment was offered by Mr. BROWN requiring the owners of lands to post up a
              sufficient number of warning notices on the premises or publish warning in a
              newspaper.
            Mr. JOHNSTON regarded this as a very plain, short bill, as mild as can be made to
              accomplish the object sought; and he resisted the motion to refer, arguing in favor of
              its passage. He recited particular cases in his county where persons had been hit and
              stock killed by chance shots. He regarded this subject of much importance and asked
              for it candid consideration.
            Mr. GREEN also favored the bill, and desired the bill acted upon by the Senate as
              soon as practicable.
            Mr. BRADLEY modified his motion by changing the reference to the Committee
                on Rights and Privileges, with instructions to amend as suggested by the
              amendment--Mr. Brown's.
            Mr. HADLEY could add testimony in cases of injury from this cause in his county, but
              could see no particular necessity for the amendment. These notices could not be made
              to withstand the weather long, and not one in ten will notice the publication in a
              newspaper. Let sportsmen understand they can go on the premises of no man without
              consent, and then it will be generally understood.
            Mr. MORGAN thought this bill an important one. He himself had seen the need of such a
              law. He suggested an amendment that those willing and wishing to have their enclosures
              depredated upon advertise that fact, and let it be understood where no such notice is
              given the hunters are forbidden.
            Mr. BEESON declared the bill suited his approbation, and thought it better to concur
              with the amendment just proposed. The farming community in his section were very much
              annoyed by hunters; instances of which he gave, personally known to himself. His
              people demanded some such protection as would be furnished by this bill. There is
              probably no bill on the files that should demand more careful consideration.
            Mr. DENBO could see no good reason to tax farmers for the purpose of giving warning
              notices. It would be more just and an easier matter for sportsmen to obtain permission
              from land owners to hunt there-on.
            Mr. MARTINDALE advised concurrence in the report of the Committee.
            Mr. BROWN would not oppose a law for the protection of the farming community, but
              considered it no hardship for land owners to post up written warning notices.
            Such provision is made in similar laws of other States.
            Mr. HENDERSON opposed the whole bill because he thought it would work a hardship on a
              respectable class.
            Mr. HAMILTON favored the bill but opposed the amendment because he believed it would
              work hardship to the owners of enclosures. He moved to lay the amendment an the
              table.
            The motion was agreed to.
            Mr. GREGG thought the question to be simply whether these wrongs done by hunters
              should be declared unlawful--a crime--a malicious trespass. It did seem to him if
              there is to be any law upon the subject at all this was probably as near correct as
              could be made; and there was no necessity for its return to the committee.
            Mr. MORGAN regarded the bill as mild as such an one could be, and he was in hopes the
              bill would pass just as it is exactly.
            Mr. KEIGWIN opposed the bill as it stood but would favor it with the proposed
              amendment, which he thought would be satisfactory to all concerned.
            Mr. JOHNSTON again urged the passages of his bill.
            Mr. DITTEMORE demanded the previous question.
            There being a second, the motion to recommit the bill was rejected.
            On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE, the committee amendments were concurred in.
            Mr. BRADLEY moved to strike out of the bill all that makes the tresspass malicious by
              appropriately inserting the words "maliciously or mischievously."
            Mr. HUGHES moved to amend by way of substitute, which makes the walking through or
              over lands without license after warning to the contrary a malicious trespass. Mr. H.
              declared the object of the bill to be to make it a criminal offense to go shooting
              upon enclosed lands against the will of the owner. The object of the amendment is that
              any person who persists in walking over enclosed lands after having received notice to
              the contrary shall also be deemed guilty of malicious trespass. He desired to put in
              the bill that the party must have notice, and held that if the owner of land makes a
              personal request or puts up notice that his field is not a public highway, to trespass
              thereon ought to be made a malicious trespass.
            Mr. HOOPER would almost infer, from hearing the discussion on this question, that we
              really had no law at all on the subject. He insisted that the aggrieved party now, by
              the statute, has a civil remedy; and to maliciously or mischievously injure the
              property of another, or any public property, is now a criminal offense, and parties
              can be punished as well under the present statute as under the amendment proposed.
              There might be some cases that would come under the present statute, but those cases
              would be very few indeed.
            Mr. LASALLE was of opinion that the bill goes too far that it proposes to punish as a
              malicious trespass what might not be so, in fact. He opposed the increase in the
              number of criminal acts except in cases where it might seem absolutely necessary for
              the public welfare; and he made a legal argument in opposition to the measure under
              consideration.

            

            The Seate took a recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Senate reassembled at 2 o'clock and resumed the consideration of the pending
              order.
            Mr. BOBO said the nature of these depredations seemed to be such that no adequate
              remedy was provided under the statutes This damage and injury to the highest interests
              of the country ought to be prevented, and it can only be done by making that a
              criminal act which, in itself, probably, is not really criminal. Enjoyments may well
              be restricted when they are interfering with one of the first and best interests of
              the State. There is better reasons for making depredations of this sort a criminal
              offense than there was for making it criminal to throw a line in the river and catch
              fish. He opposed the amendments--thought it dangerous to place such restrictions in
              the bill, and that the bill should be left as it is.
            Mr. WOOD thought this amendment [Mr. Bradley's] merely re enacting a law already on
              the statute book under which parties have all the remedies this amendment would give
              them.
            Mr. BRADLEY explained his amendment, and he could not understand how a man could be
              guilty of a malicious trespass where there is no malice. You can not find a man guilty
              of malicious trespass without charging him with malice, and the object of the
              amendment is to get the question before the courts as to whether there was malice or
              not in the act.
            Mr. GREEN favored the adoption of the bill as reported from the committee. He held
              the doctrine that the amendment of the Senator from Laporte kills the bill. The law
              now provides a remedy against going to another's premises and committing malicious
              trespass.
            On motion of Mr. WOOD, the amendment was laid on the table by yeas 32, nays 14.
            The question recurring on the amendment to the amendment--
            Mr. HUGHES announced that he was committed to this bill, and presented additional
              reasons why his pending amendment should be incorporated therein. It is designed to
              protect the weak women and children and it is therefore more necessary than the other
              provisions of the bill; and its passage could not possibly affect any other than the
              wrong-doer. He recited a case that came under his observation, where a grievous breach
              of good morals was made for which there is no remedy under the present law but which
              his amendment will cover. At the suggestion of several Senators he made the penalty to
              be not exceeding $5 for each offense.
            The amendment to the amendment [Mr Hughes', which is numbered section 3] was agreed
              to.
            Mr. COLLETT moved to amend the first and second sections of the bill so as to make
              the provisions of the bill apply to roads and highways running through or along
              enclosed lands; in support of which he recited cases where damage resulted from firing
              across and from roads and highways.
            Mr. BROWN could not see how this amendment could be made applicable to either the
              first or second sections; and he proceeded to show that this conclusion was correct,
              as he believed.
            Mr. SCOTT, on second thought, believed the amendment to be correct. If there is any
              reason in the world to prevent shooting on lands, all the reasons therefor would apply
              with equal force as against shooting in the roads and highways.
            Mr. MARTINDALE proposed a substitute for the amendment, by appropriately inserting
              the words, "or who shall shoot into an enclosure from a public highway.'
            Mr. COLLETT accepted the substitute.
            Mr. HUBBARD could see no necessity for this amendment, because he believed the
              present statutory provisions cover all cases that the amendment would reach.
            Mr. MARTINDALE presented other reasons why this bill is a meritorious one. The act of
              obtaining permission should came from the party desiring to go upon the enclosed lands
              of another.
            Mr. STEELE expressed his opposition to the bill. While its provisions might restrain
              citizens in our own counties, he did not think it would reach parties coming from a
              distance. It looked like giving a license to foreigners to come in and kill our game
              and birds with impunity; because you may indict them but they will be beyond the
              jurisdiction of our local court. He favored the amendment proposed by the Senator from
              Monroe, [Mr. Hughes,] which has been adopted.
            Mr. BROWN made an ineffectual motion to lay the amendment [Mr. Collett's] on the
              table.
            Mr. BROWN demanded the previous question.The Senate seconded the demand.
            The amendment [Mr. Collett'e] was rejected by yeas, 20; nays, 23.
            The bill was read, as amended, the second time.
            Mr. SCOTT moved to amend by making the penalty in the second section to be double the
              amount of the property destroyed.
            The amendment was agreed to.
            Mr. DWIGGINS moved to make the minimum fine provided for in the first section one
              dollar, so as to read "not less than $1 nor more than $50 "
            Mr. JOHNSTON made an ineffectual motion to amend the amendment by striking out "one"
              and inserting "three" in lieu.
            The amendment [Mr. Dwiggins'] was agreed to by yeas, 31; nays, 13.
            Mr. JOHNSTON moved that the bill be engrossed, and thereupon demanded the previous
              question.
            The Senate seconded the demand and the bill was ordered engrossed.
            On motion by Mr. BEESON, a suspension of the order of business was consented to and
              the Senate concurred in the House resolution for a joint convention to-morrow
              afternoon at 3 o'clock to receive a memorial 
              from a committee of ladies on the women suffrage question.
            Mr. MARTINDALE called up the House concurrent resolution to print 8,000 copies of the
              Governor's Message, and it was also concurred in.
            
              WABASH= AND ERIE CANAL.
              Mr. HADLEY offered a preamble and resolution, as follows:
              
                
                  
                    WHEREAS, A difference of opinion exists not only between
                      Senators, but between ditinguished lawyers of the State upon the question of
                      the State's primary liability to pay off the old bonds of the State not
                      surrendered under the Butler Bills: and
                    WHEREAS. A cause is now pending in the Corrol Circuit
                      Court seeking to subject the Wabash and Erie Canal, and other public works of
                      the State to sale for the payment of certain of the unsurrendered bonds, to
                      which cause the State is not a party, and can exercise no right of appeal to
                      the Court of last resorts; and whereas the sale of said Canal from the hands
                      of the Trustees thereof, and a sequestration of its revenues, might seriously
                      embarass the State and complicate the adjustment made under the Butters Bills;
                      and
                    WHEREAS. There is no legislation of this State providing
                      for any contingency that might arise out of the foregoing premises: therefore
                      be it
                    Resolved, That the Attorney General of this State be
                      requested to submit to the Senate at the earliest practicable day his written
                      opinion upon the nature and extent of the State's liabilities upon its bonds
                      issued to the year 1841, and not surrendered under the legislation of 1846-7,
                      know as the Butler Bill.
                  
                
              
              Mr. HADLEY said the position having been taken here by a Senator and a lawyer that
                the State is not primarily liable on these old bonds, which position was supported
                by strong arguments, and the same position having been taken on this floor by other
                Senators, also able lawyers, and by lawyers outside of this legislative body, and
                for one, himself not being clear on the question whether or not the State is
                primarily liable, and if liable, to what extent--for one-half or for the whole
                amount; as we have an Attorney General, a very able lawyer, no doubt familiar with
                that whole subject, living as he does upon the line of these public works, and as he
                is our legal adviser, we should have his opinion. There is a bill pending providing
                for a contingency that may arise in this case, and he [Mr. Hadley] would be glad to
                have the opinion of the Attorney General before called upon to vote upon this
                measure.
              Mr. BROWN, without admitting the statements in the preamble to be correct, favored
                the adoption of the resolution. The Senator [Mr. Hadley] has stated very clearly the
                position he [Mr. B.] occupied on the internal improvement bond question, and if
                wrong he would like to be Informed of the error. He certainly should not throw
                anything in the way of a most complete and thorough investigation of the opinion he
                had given on the subject of the liability of the State on these bonds.
              Mr. HUGHES remarked that the Governor has laid before the Senate an opinion of
                learned legal gentlemen and opinions are nothing but opinions at mosr. That opinion
                is so full and complete he thought it hardly worth while to call for the opinion of
                the official law officer of the government on the question, and therefore he moved
                to lay the resolution on the table.
              The motion was rejected by yeas 22, nays 23.
              The resolution was rejected by yeas, 20, nays, 26.
            
            
              WILSON'S DIGEST.
              Mr. DWIGGINS submitted a resolution, that Bowen, Stewart & Co. furnish each
                Senator with one copy of Wilson's Digest of Parliamentary Law.
              Mr. MARTINDALE moved to amend, that these books be receipted for and returned to
                the Library.
              This amendment was laid on the table on Mr. Brown's motion.
              On motion of Mr. HUGHES the resolution was laid on the table.
            
            
              NEWSPAPERS.
              Mr. DITTEMORE submitted the following resolution, which was adopted:
              
                
                  
                    Resolved, That from and after the passage of this
                      resolution the following papers, heretofore ordered by the Senate shall be
                      discontinued, to-wit: Daily Commercial, Evening
                        News and Indiana American.
                  
                
              
            
            
              STATE CONSTITUTION.
              On motion by Mr. GLESSNER it was
              Ordered, That the constitution of the State be printed, with the rules of the
                Senate.
            
            
              ELECTION OF ASYLUM TRUSTEES.
              Mr. HENDERSON submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the House amendment
                to the Senate resolution for electing officers of benevolent institutions be taken
                up.
              Mr. DITTEMORE moved to amend by making the time for the concurrent vote to-morrow,
                Friday, January 20th, at 10 o'clock A. M.
              The amendment was agreed to.
            
            
              COMMITTEE CLERKS.
              Mr. WILLIAMS offered resolutions, which were adopted, authorizing the Finance
                Committee and the Committee on Elections to employ clerks.
            
            
              REORGANIZATION OF THE JUDICIARY.
              Mr. ARMSTRONG submitted a preamble and resolution directing the Committee
                  on Organization of Courts to prepare a bill redistricting the State for
                judicial purposes.
              Mr. GLESSNER moved to amend by making the resolution one of inquiry.
              Mr. BOBO moved to amend by substituting a resolution authorizing the President of
                the Senate to appoint a special committee of three to prepare a bill redistricting
                the State for all judicial purposes and report to the Senate next session.
              Mr. HUGHES was inclined to oppose the appointment of select committees as a general
                thing, and would like to hear from the Senator his reasons for proposing this
                one.
              Mr. BOBO declared it not in the power of the standing committee to give the time
                necessary to that careful consideration of this question the subject should
                demand.
              The substitute was agreed to.
              Mr. GREEN did not like this commission  to run
                for two years; it would involve a heavy expense and would result in no good.
              Mr. MARTINDALE would favor a committee to revise and make uniform our judicial
                system, abolish some courts of concurrent jurisdiction, and propose many needed
                amendments. If this resolution contemplated so much, he would favor it; otherwise he
                should oppose any measure of this sort.
              Mr. HUGHES was not prepared to say that this resolution was not a good thing, but
                his favorable vote would depend upon who the the committee would be. He moved to
                amend by adding that the committee shall consist of Mr. Bobo and three others, to be
                chosen on motion.
              Mr. GREEN was satisfied the judicial system needed reconstruction, but again
                insisted that this commission would amount to nothing under the narrow resolution
                adopted.
              Mr. BOBO insisted that the State would have to be redistricted under any system. In
                some districts the judges are on the bench 45 weeks in the year, and in others only
                20 weeks.
              Mr. MARTINDALE suggested that there should be a joint committee to consist probably
                of two Senators and three Representatives. All such commissions should embrace
                members of both Houses.
              On motion this resolution and amendment was postponed and made the special order
                for next Tuesday at 2 o'clock P. M.
              Mr. MARTINDALE offered a joint resolution [S. 5] for instruction and request to the
                Congressmen from Indiana if possible to procure the abolition of a per capita tax on
                foreign emigrants to the United States.
              He made a demand for the previous question.
              The Senate seconded the demand, upon a division--affirmative, 18; negative, 14.
              On motion of Mr. HUGHES, the vote of the Senate ordering the main question, was
                reconsidered by yeas, 24; nays, 22.
              On motion by Mr. BROWN the joint resolution was referred to the Committee
                  on Federal Relations.
              And then the Senate adjourned.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            THURSDAY, January 19, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M., and the reading of the journal of yesterday was
            ordered and it proceeded--till
          On motion of Mr. McDONALD the further reading was dispensed with.
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
              McDowell's exhorbitant fee bill [H. R. 52]--
            Mr. NEFF, same Committee, returned Mr. Cauthorn's Notary Public bill [H. R. 80]--
            Mr. DAVIDSON--same Committee--returned Mr. Kennedy's Sheriff sale of real estate on
              credit bill [H. R. 37] and the several recommendations to lay them on the table were
              agreed to.
          
          
            MORTGAGE SATISFACTION.
            Mr. HENDERSON, from the same Committee, returned Mr. Cunningham's mortgage act
              amendment bill [H. R. 67], recommending passage.
            He said this is compulsory to compel the mortgagee who has received payment on the
              mortgage to enter satisfaction on the record or be subject to a fine. The report was
              concurred in.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY returned Mr. Stone's bill [H. R. 72] to amend the sixteanth section of
              the act of March 11, 1861, concerning promissory notes, recommending its passage.
          
          
            EXECUTION SALE CREDIT.
            Mr. DAVIDSON, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr. Kennedy's
              real estate judgment sale bill [H. R. 37] for a credit of one and two years 10 per
              cent. in the judgment, recommending that it lie on the table. This bill, he said, gave
              the execution defendant the right to direct the Sheriff to sell his real estate on
              credit, one third down and one-third in one and two years. The committee think our
              laws are already liberal enough in that direction admitting the debtor to redeem in 12
              months.
            The report was concurred in.
          
          
            ASSIGNMENTS OF RECORD.
            Mr. ST. JOHN returned Mr. Ruddell's bill [H. R. 89] for the assignment of mortgaged
              notes to be recorded--with a recommendation that it lie on the table.
            Mr. RUDDELL thought there was some misunderstanding as to the object to be gained by
              this bill. At present the party may convey his mortgage-notes perhaps to half a dozen
              parties, scattered all over the country. And at some subsequent time, some other party
              may execute a mortgage on the same premises, and may find it necessary to bring suit
              for foreclosure. And the law makes all prior holders of notes parties to the suit for
              foreclosure, and if they are not made parties to the suit, the judgment sale is a
              nullity as to the rights of those parties. And if, as this bill requires, the party
              selling such notes sees that the assignment is recorded by the County Recorder, when
              any party wishes to bring suit for foreclosure he may soon ascertain by the record
              every person having a light to be made a party "to the suit; and thus save trouble and
              expense. It was so necessary a remedy that it seemed to him there could be no
              difference of opinion about it.
            Mr. ST. JOHN said the committee had canvassed this matter pretty thoroughly. Some
              difference should be paid certainly to the rights of the assignees of such notes; and
              this bill would notify subsequent purchasers of their prior liens. But does not the
              law at present requiring mortgages to be recorded afford the same notice? A mortgage
              of record is not satisfied until the notes are paid; and there is also a law that when
              such notes have been paid the mortgagee must enter satisfaction under a penalty if he
              fails to do so. So the bill works hardship. And the committee have thought that the
              pro-  posed compulsion would perhaps lay a trap
              which might cut off the rights of original mortgagees. The committee think the
              purchasers of these notes should not be compelled to come from every quarter to the
              county where these notes were sold. Then there is a very grave question as to the
              authority of the Legislature to pass an act of this kind, because every party in court
              is entitled to notice.
            Mr. NEFF, from the same committee, returned Mr. Tebbs' real estate redemption bill
              [H. R. 76], recommending that it lie on the table. He said under the present law the
              party having his premises sold has the right to occupy twelve months; then if he
              redeems he pays 10 per cent.; if he fails he pays a reasonable rent. This change is,
              that after the man's land is sold he is bound to give security for the rent if he does
              not redeem. We think the law should remain as it is.
            Mr. CAUTHORN, from the same committee, returned Mr. Rhodes' married woman's bill, [H.
              R. 34], recommending that it lie on the table. He said this is a bill authorizing
              married women over 18 and under 21 to convey their real estate. The committee are of
              opinion that there is already such a provision of law.
            Mr. RHODES. If I understand there is no such provision. There is a provision whereby
              she may convey her own lands. The effect is that she is absolutely prohibited from
              disposing of her real estate, and I can see no reason for such restrictions as are at
              present thrown around such married women; and it seems to me that this omission or
              deficiency of the law ought to be supplied.
            Mr. CAUTHORN was satisfied with the present law on that subject, and referred to
              section 24 of the act first Gavin & Hord, p. 264. This act provided that such
              married women may convey their real estate if they have father or mother living. The
              only thing to be gained by this bill would be a provision for such married women
              having neither father nor mother living; but it might be subject to abuse where such a
              married woman has a dissolute and unprincipaled husband.
            Mr. SANSBERRY. A great many young men would marry for the sake of conveying the real
              estate of the wife and then let her slip.
            Mr. RHODES. This bill was not drawn to cover any particular case, but simply to
              supply an omission in the law. So far as the danger from dissolute husbands is
              concerned, the bill proviees against that; for before the deed would be operative it
              would have to be subjected to the inspection of the Circuit Court judge. I do not
              think any serious injury or abuse could result from the operation of such a law.
            The report of the Committee was concurred in.
          
          
            RAILROADS.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr. Hines'
              bill [H. R. 79] to extend the time for the completion of railroads, recommending
              passage. It is a general bill, he said, to protect railroads and legalize certain acts
              of Boards of Directors.
          
          
            NOTES TAXING COLLECTION FEES--IRON-CLAD.
            Mr. HENDERSON, from the Jndiciary Committee, returned Mr. Ballenger's bill [H. R. 75]
              making contracts for the payment of attorneys fees illegal and void, and recommending
              that it be laid on the table.
            Mr. BALLENGER was without any great interest in the matter of attorney's fees.
              Lawyers, he believed, might generally and reasonably be in favor of attorneys' fees in
              notes. It relieves them from the embarrassment of having to charge their own clients
              with fees. But the people at large have complained of the law; and it is abused in the
              manner in which the lawyers tax their fees and the costs of collection. The debtor
              never knows what he has to pay. The law itself is uncertain in its application and
              very liable to abuse, and I think public policy is against it. These abuses never can
              be remedied except by the abolishment of the law.
            Mr. NEFF had not concurred in this report from the judiciary committee. He was in
              favor of the bill, and opposed to the report of the majority of the committee. Having
              been charged in the newspapers with making poor house arguments, he would fight it out
              on that line. His objection to thus contracting to pay collection and attorneys' fees
              was that it works injuriously against the poor, and was devised in the interest of the
              strong, the monied men.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, questioned the constitutionality of this law. It had been his
              understanding, and still was, that it is not the province of the Legislature to
              declare what is law against public policy, because that belongs exclusively to the
              courts.
            Mr. KENNEDY. It is a principle of law to protect the people. When a good man has
              signed a note, suspecting nothing more than that he will pay the face of it, and after
              he has been sued, finds out that he is taxed with a fee bill, the law should protect
              him. A great many of our laws are made in the interest of lawyers; and I think we are
              lacking a great deal in not sending more farmers here. It is true that we farmers
              can't talk so much as the lawyers, but we would talk about legislating for the people;
              but these lawyers make a profession of talking, and can talk the eyes out of we poor
              farmers. The bill which I introduced here was in the interest of the poor.
            Mr. WOODARD. Men that have money have a peculiar power. The lender of money can force
              the borrower into unequal contracts, and while I hold that every man should live up to
              his contract, I say let the law protect the weaker party. I am in favor of the
              bill.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM was in favor of the passage of the bill. I have known cases where the
              debtor has been charged for attorney's fees more than the amount of his note.
            Mr. BIGGS. Only about one-fourth of  this body
              is composed of lawyers, and he happening to be one of them still believed that this
              bill ought to be passed; although as the gentleman from Wayne, Mr. Ballenger, says, we
              have been generally pretty well satisfied to collect the fees of the debtor when he
              happens not to be our client. He considered that the creditor ought to be satisfied
              when he gets the exact amount of his debt. He had heard of no attorney here not in
              favor of this bill, and saw no applicability in the remark of the gentleman from Rush
              (Mr. Kennedy.)
            After further debate by Mr. Browning and Mr. Walker and Mr. Britton in favor of the
              bill; and by Mr. McDonald, looking to an amendment reducing the fees to five per
              cent.; and by Messrs. Henderson, Cauthorn and Kuddell against the bill,
            The House refused to concur in the report by yeas, 82; nays, 8--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Britton,
                    Barnaby, Bruner, Butterworth, Caldwell, Calkins of Fulton, Calkins of Porter,
                    Cauthorn, Coggswell, Conner, Copner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Davidson, Defrees,
                    Deputy, Donham, Friedley, Gallentine,Gordon of Boone, Gordon of Cass, Guthrie,
                    Hardin, Hawley. Haynes, Heilman, Henderson, Hendry, Hill, Hooker, Hynes,
                    Kennedy, King, Kilkpatrick, Knight, Lines, Major, Martin of Wayne, Martin of
                    Putnam, McDonald, McFarland, McGowan, Minnick, Mitchell, Monroe, Montgomery,
                    Myers, Netherton, Oatley, Ray, Rhodes, Rice. Ruddell, Sabin, Sansberry, Sayers,
                    Shoenemann, Shutt, Snodgrass. Stanley, Stephenson, St. John. Stone, Strickland,
                    Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Taylor, Tebbs, Walker, Washburn, Warrum, Williams,
                    Wilson, Wymer, Wood Woodard, and Mr. Speaker--82
                  NAYS--Messrs. Browning, Gentry, Goble, Hartley, Holland,
                    Logan, McDowell, and Zenor--8.
                
              
            
          
          
            SUPERIOR COURT FOR MARION COUNTY.
            Mr. SANSBERRY, from the Committee on Organization of Courts,
              returned Mr. Wilson's bill, [H. R. 58,] for Superior Courts in counties with cities
              exceeding 40,000, with amendments dividing the pay of the judges equally between the
              county and the State, etc.
            Mr. WILSON wished to be understood as accepting the amendments of the committee, and
              hoped the House would concur.
            The report was concurred in.
          
          
            DRAINAGE.
            Mr. CALKINS, from the Committee on Swamp Lands, returned Mr.
              Caldwell's general individual drainage bill, [H. R. 22,] recommending its passage.
            The report was concurred in.
          
          
            GAME LAW.
            Mr. HAYNES, from the Committee onRights and Privileges, returned Mr. Defrees' bill
              [H. R. 62] with a favorable recommendation and amendments--to admit of trapping during
              the same period of time that shooting is allowed.
            Mr. MONTGOMERY, from the same committee, returned Mr. Washburn's bill to regulate the
              sale of poisons, &c., recommending its passage.
            Mr. BRITTON, from the same committee, returned Mr. Bruner's fish bill [H. R. 108],
              recommending its passage.
            These reports were severally concurred in.
            Mr. RUDDELL, from the same committee, returned Mr. Holland's game law bill [H. R.
              107], recommending that it lie on the table.
            Mr. FURNAS, from the same committee, returned Mr. Stephenson's fish law bill [H. R.
              30] recommending that it be laid on the table.
            These reports were concurred in.
            Mr. DONHAM, from the Committee on Agriculture, returned Mr.
              Browning's dog law amendment bill recommending its passage, stating that two members
              are dissenting from the report.
            Mr. FURNAS expressed his dissent and moved that the bill be recommitted.
            The motion was agreed to.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM, from the Committee on Mileage and Accounts,
              reported as to the mileage of each member; which was read, corrected and concurred
              in.
            Mr. STONE (by unanimous consent) submitted an order to tender to the ladies in charge
              of a memorial to the General Assembly in relation to female suffrage the privilege of
              the hall of the House of Representatives on Friday evening, Jan. 20, if the Senate
              concur therein.
            But upon the suggestion of the Speaker and others the time was changed to three
              o'clock P. M., and so the order was adopted on the part of the House of
              Representatives.
            Mr. McGOWAN, from the special committee thereon, returned Mr. Cauthorn's court bill
              [H. R. 3], for the Third Circuit with' amendments, which were concurred in. It was
              subsequently finally passed the House of Representatives yeas 94, nays 0.
            Mr. NEFF, from the special committee thereon, returned the bill [S. 22], fixing the
              time of the courts in the Sixth Circuit with amendments, which were concurred in.
            On motion of Mr. WILSON, his Superior Court bill [H. R. 58], was taken up--
            And then the House took a recess till 2 o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The House met at 2 o'clock.
            
              SUPERIOR COURT FOR MARION COUNTY.
              THE SPEAKER announced the considertion of Mr. Wilson's Superior Court bill [H. R.
                58] pending when the House took the recess this morning, upon which Mr. Wilson is
                entitled to the floor.
              Mr. WILSON said he desired to be understood as cccepting the amendment which would
                be offered by the gentleman from Madison [Mr. Sansberry] when the House shall be
                ready to act on the bill--that amendment being in place of the amendment offered by
                the Committee on the Organization of Courts, to require the
                county to pay $2,000, and the State $1,000, of the salary of each of the Judges. He
                then proceeded at length to explain the provisions of the bill. [His speech will
                appear in the appendix.]
              Mr. SANSBERRY now proposed an amendment to the bill making the salaries of Judge
                payable--$2,000 by the county, and $1,000 by the State.

              

              Mr. BROWNING. Whilst our present judiciary system remains what it is, I shall not
                be prepared to cast my vote to take more money from the pockets of the people on
                account of it. Whilst the Common Pleas Judges are living at starvation rates on a
                salary of only $1,500, and that paid in county orders -whilst we have to pay the
                Judges of the Common Pleas, of the Criminal Courts, and of the Supreme Court, I
                shall be unwilling to vote for a bill to make an increase of three Judges more. I
                shall vote against the bill for the reason that we do not pay our Common Pleas
                Judges out of the State Treasury. When the application was made to the General
                Assembly for establishing the criminal Courts, it was required that they should be
                established at the expense of the counties. And my word for it, if we suffer this
                bill to pass, not twenty-four hours will roll around till we shall have a bill for
                paying the criminal judges out of the general treasury. I do not feel disposed to
                make a factious opposition to any court bill, where it is all right and proper. I
                will say to the gentleman from Marion, if the Court which he proposes is to do the
                business of the Common Pleas Court he can have the same remedy in any other court by
                asking an extension of the time of sitting, or by allowing the city of Indianapolis
                to be divided into one or two circuits. I can see no necessity for establishing this
                Superior Court, with three judges. It amounts to the same thing as establishing
                three more circuits. But under our present law the county of Marion may now have the
                session of some court for every week in the year. Therefore, if they desire this
                court, I insist that they shall pay the whole of the expenses of it.
              Mr. RUDDELL. So far from agreeing with the gentleman from Brown, [Mr. Browning,] I
                would very much prefer to vote for this bill in its original shape. I must say that
                I was disappointed at the course of my colleague, [Mr. Wilson,] so readily accepting
                the amendments to the bill. Marion county does not propose to ask much at the hands
                of this legislature, nor does she propose to monopolize much of the time here
                through her representatives. She only asks that which her pressing needs
                imperatively demand; and she is ready and glad to support any legislation that may
                be necessary to protect the rights and promote the welfare of the people of any
                portion of the State. Neither does she come here as a supplicant asking that which
                she has no right to demand. She comes here simply asking such rights as are granted
                to other portions of the State.
              Mr. BROWNING (interposing)-Would not your purpose be subserved by creating two or
                three new circuits?
              Mr. RUDDELL. I will answer the gentleman. It is the policy of our State to secure
                to all her people equal facilities to the courts to secure the ends of justice. The
                State does not trust that to the counties, but she says the State shall be divided
                into so many circuits, whose Judges' salaries shall be paid out of the State
                treasury. Marion county pays a much larger portion of the tax which supports the
                judiciary than does any other county. And she does this cheerfully. Then we have the
                school system, or the support of which the State levies a tax on the people at
                large-of which tax the people of Marion county pay largely above what they receive
                over $30,000 a year of their share. And we do not complain of this. We do not
                complain that the law does not compel the people of Brown county to educate their
                own children. We are willing to help them bear that burden. In addition to this,
                Marion county pays five times as much as any other from the license to sell liquor.
                But now when we come to this matter of Courts--when her business demands additional
                court facilities, we find gentlemen complaining. It is true, we might divide our
                circuit into two or three circuits under the present law, and I am sure that would
                be for our advantage; because, instead of this expense of salaries as now provided
                in the bill to be paid two thirds by the State, by this division of circuits the
                State would have to bear all the burden. But, this Superior Court might be more to
                our advantage. By this Court it would have at least the same advantages that might
                accrue from two or three Circuits; and we have agreed to pay the additional expense
                out of our own pockets. If Marion county needs this Court she should have it, and
                the only question is in regard to the extra salaries. We propose to pay these Judges
                $3,000 because we want the best legal ability there. And why is it that we do not
                want the State to pay these additional salaries? Because we are so anxious for this
                Court that we will pay of these salaries $6,000 a year, leaving the State to pay but
                $3,000 a year out of the general Treasury. If you gave us only one additional
                Circuit, the State would pay $2,500 more; and if two Circuits $5,000.
              But now, by this bill, you are asked to pay but $3,000, while Marion is willing to
                pay $6,000 out of her own pocket, and as I have shown she pays one fifteenth part of
                the remaining $3,000, which are to come from the State treasury. And I say to,
                gentlemen, if you have not Judges enough we stand ready to vote for giving you extra
                Judges; we stand ready to pay largely more of our proportionate share of the
                expenses than any other county in the State. Give us back our taxes and we will run
                our own judiciary, but the people of Marion are not asking that.
              Mr. COPNER came here proposing to legislate for the people of the State, caring not
                whether they belonged to Marion county, to the North, to the South, the East, or to
                his own home--he was legislating for the people of the State of Indiana. And the
                first question to consider here is, does Marion county need this assistance? If she
                does, it is the duty of this Legislature to grant her all that is in their power.
                That she does need this, Is evident from the fact that she is continually from ten
                to fourteen months behind  on her docket all
                the time. This is the testimony of the entire box. Then the next question is: What
                plan of relief would be the best and cheapest? The gentleman from Brown admits that,
                some assistance is necessary, and he suggests more circuit courts. Then he is
                opposed to the bill not because it will be adding to the number of judges; and he
                can see that the course he suggests will cost more.
              Mr. St. JOHN also spoke for the passage of the bill--summing up and enforcing the
                considerations heretofore suggested.
              The bill was then passed the House of Representatives by yeas 82, nays 8.
              On motion of Mr. WILSON his motion to reconsider this vote was laid on the
                table.
            
            
              NEW PROPOSITIONS.
              The SPEAKER now announced the order of the call of the counties for bills and
                resolutions.
              Mr. TAYLOR introduced a bill, [H. R. 121,] for an act to exempt two months' wages
                or salaries from foreign attachment.
              Mr. TAYLOR. A joint resolution for a memorial to Congress for the abolition of the
                franking privilege.
              It was passed by yeas--70, nays 21.
              Mr. ABBETT presented a memorial from Barcabas C. Hobbs, and in conformity therewith
                he introduced a bill [H. R. 122] for an act to appropriate $250 for the distribution
                of the report of the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
              Mr. ABBETT--[H. R. 123] for an act to suppress tippling houses and to regulate the
                sale, barter and giving away of spirituous liquors and wines, etc.
              Mr. HAWLEY introduced a bill [H. R. 124] for an act to repeal the act authorizing
                the assessment of lands for plank, Macadamized and gravel road, purposes, etc.
              Mr. McFARLAND offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the Speaker of the
                House appoint a committee of three to visit the Soldiers' and Orphans' Home at
                Knightstown, to ascertain whether the inmates received the proper care from those in
                charge of the Home.
              Subsequently the Speaker appointed said committee, namely: Messrs. McFarland,
                Oatley and Stone.
              Mr. McFarland introduced a bill [H. R. 125], for an act to regulate the license and
                retailing of intoxicating, spiritous and vinous liquors.
              Also, [H. R. 126], to amend paragraph 13 of section 53 of the general cities laws
                of 1867 and 1869.
              Also [H. R. 127] for an act to repeal an act authorizing the assessment of lands
                for plank, macadamized and gravel road purposes--the acts of 1867 and 1869.
              Mr. SRICKLAND--[H. R. 128] for an act to amend section 35 of the common school
                law.
              Mr. BRITTON-[H. R. 129] for an act to amend an act to amend section 103 of an act
                for the removal of county seats--the acts of 1865 and 1869.
              Mr. CUNNINGHAM. [H. R. 130], for an oppropriation of $1,360 to the permanent school
                fund. (Out of special fund referred to.)
              Mr. RICE, [H. R. 131,] for an act supplemental to an act in relation to County
                Treasurers.
              Mr. ST. JOHN, [H. R. 132,] for an act to repeal the proviso in section 2 of an act
                to amend section 2 of an act in relation to the registry of sales of Michigan Road
                lands, and 35 copies of such record, approved March 9, 1859, and May 4, 1869.
            
            
              THE CALENDAR.
              The bill [S. 22]--time of holding courts in the 6th Circuit, the Senate joint
                resolutions in relation to the Wabash and Erie canal bonds, and the payment of the
                internal improvement bonds issued prior to 1841, were referred to the
                  Committee on Canals.
              The Senate joint resolution for amendment to the State Constitution, was made the
                special order for Tuesday.
              The Senate Fifteenth Circuit Court bill [S. 25] was ordered to the third
                reading.
              The bill [S. 39] for three additional Trustees to Purdue University was referred to
                the Committee on Agriculture.
              The Laporte water works bonds bill [S. 1) was finally passed the House--yeas 80,
                nays 1.
              Mr. WILSON submitted the report of the Agent of State.
              Mr. Myers' Prize Fighting bill [H. R. 84] was passed the third and last reading in
                the House of Representatives by yeas 90, nays 0.
              The Senate concurrent resolution, appointing Friday (to-morrow), at 10 o'clock, for
                the concurrent election of Trustees of the Benevolent Institutions of the State, was
                taken up and anopted.
              The House then, at 4:30, adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            FRIDAY, January 20, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A. M., the Lieutenant Governor in the chair.
          The session was opened with prayer by Rev. C. W. Martindale, of the M. E. Church and
            Agent of the Indiana Temperance Alliance.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were being read when--
          On motion by Mr. FULLER, the further reading thereof was dispensed with.
          On motion by Mr. SARNINGHAUSEN, the vote of yesterday concurring in the House
            resolution authorizing the printing of 8,000 copies of the Governor's message, 1,500
            copies in the German language, was reconsidered and amended by substituting "2,000"
            copies for "1,500" in the German language. The House concurrent resolution as amended
            was then again concurred in by the Senate.
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. KEIGWIN presented petitions from lawyers in Scott, Orange and Jackson counties
              praying for an increase of salaries of judicial officers.
            Messrs. GLESSNER and GREGG submitted petitions on the same subject.
            On motion by Mr. DITTEMORE, Mr. Sarninghausen was added to the Committee on
                Emigration.
            Mr. ROBINSON presented two petitions from Decatur county, praying for the enactment
              of a prohibitory liquor law.
            Mr. ALSOP presented a petition from Clay county for an amendment to the law governing
              relocation of county seats--in cases of relocation the county seats to be not over one
              mile from the geographical center.
            These petitions were severally referred to appropriate committees.
          
          
            IMPROVEMENT OF ROADS.
            Mr. COLLETT presented a communication from John T. Campbell proposing a new road
              system, embodying a bill prepared with a view to cover the system, which has been
              patented, but which Mr. Campbell generously proposes, if his plan is adopted by the
              State, that the right to use the same shall cost the State nothing.
            The bill [S. 84] is entitled "An act to elect a county engineer and three road
              commissioners," &c.--to hold office for three years. The engineer shall perform
              the duties of a county surveyor, and in addition duties enumerated in relation to the
              construction and repairs of roads, the grading thereof, &c.
            By consent, this bill was read the first time, the petition referred to the
                Committee on Roads and Highways, and 200 copies of the bill
              ordered printed.
          
          
            LEAVES OF ABSENCE
            Were granted Messrs. Andrews and Denbo till Tuesday evening.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            Mr. HAMILTON, by leave, introduced a bill (S. 85) fixing the compensation of county
              officials, repealing all laws in conflict therewith, and declaring an emergency. Fifty
              per cent, of fees exceeding $3,000 to be paid in the county treasury. It was read the
              first time and passed to the second reading.
          
          
            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
            Mr. STEELE, by leave, introduced a bill (S. 86) to protect the Wabash and Erie Canal
              and its appurtenancies from sale or sequesration on account of any claim of prior date
              to the act of the year 1841, but have never been surrendered under the bills of
              1846-7. It was read the first time.
            The bill proposes to make the State a party to any suit instituted for the sale of
              said canal of any part thereof--including the action now pending in the Carroll
              Circuit Court.
            Mr. BROWN moved to reject the bill.
            This bill and pending motion was made the special order for Wednesday next at 2
              o'clock P. M.
          
          
            ELECTION OF ASYLUM TRUSTEES.
            The hour of 11 o'clock having arrived--
            On motion by Mr. DITTEMORE, the Senate proceeded to carry out the order heretofore
              made by both Houses of the General Assembly for the election of Trustees for the
              Benevolent Institutions of the State by concurrent vote of the Senate and House of
              Representatives.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR declared the nominations for a Trustee of the Blind Asylum to
              be first in order.
            Mr. HENDERSON nominated Cass Byfield, of Johnston county, as Trustee for the Blind
              Asylum.
            Mr. CAVEN nominated John S. Spann, of Marion county, for the same position.

            

            The first ballot resulted as follows:
            
              
                
                  Those voting for Mr. Byfield were Messrs. Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo. Bradley,
                    Brown, Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner,
                    Gregg, Henderson, Hughes, Johnson, Keigwin, Lesselle, Morgan, Rosebrough,
                    Sarninghausen, Stroud and Williams--24.
                  Those voting for Mr. Spann were: Messrs.Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Caven,
                    Collett, Dwiggins, Fosdick, Gray, Green,Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard,
                    Martindale, Miller, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wadge, and Wood--22.
                
              
            
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR thereupon declared Mr. Byfield elected.
            Nominations for Trustee of the Deaf and Dumb Asylum being in order--
            Mr. DITTEMORE nominated Wm. R. Hogshire, of Marion county.
            Mr. ANDREWS nominated Mr. James F. Burke, of Jennings county. The first ballot
              resulted:
            
              
                For Mr. Hogshire...................................
                24 votes.
              
              
                For Mr. Burk.......................................
                22 votes.
              
            
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR declared that Mr. Hogshire had recived a majority of the votes
              cast.
            Nominations for Trustee of the Insane Asylum being next in order Mr. WILLIAMS
              nominated John M. Caldwell, of Marion county.
            Mr. HUBBARD nominated Col. Lewis Humphreys, of St. Joseph county.
            The first ballot resulted as follows:
            
              
                Mr. Caldwell received.............................
                24 votes.
              
              
                Mr. Humphreys received............................
                22 votes.
              
            
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR declared that Mr. Caldwell had received a majority of all the
              votes cast.
          
          
            EMPLOYES.
            Mr. DENBO offered a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing the Doorkeeper to
              revise and correct the names of his employes--not increasing the number thereof and
              report his action.
          
          
            PUBLICATION OF DELINQUENT LIST.
            Mr. GLESSNER, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
              returned the bill [S. 36] in relation to the duties of County Auditors in making out
              and publishing the delinquent list, with a recommendation that it do pass.
            By consent, the report and bill goes to the files.
          
          
            DISABLED SOLDIERS.
            Mr. DITTEMORE offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the Military
              Committee to inquire into the expediency and propriety of transferring soldiers from
              the Home at Knightstown to the National Home, at Dayton, Ohio.
          
          
            STATIONERY AND STAMPS.
            Mr. BROWN offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the Doorkeeper and Chairmen
              of Committees be allowed the same amount of stationery and stamps allowed to
              members.
          
          
            CASS AND MIAMI COUNTIES.
            Mr. LASALLE, from the Committee on Organization of Courts of
                Justice, in behalf of said Committee, returned the bill [S.
              23]constituting the 25th Judicial District, with amendments, recommending its
              passage.
          
          
            SCHOOL TRUSTEES.
            Mr. JOHNSON offered a resolution instructing the Committee on
                Education to consider the propriety of reporting a bill that Township
              Trustees shall not purchase maps, globes, &c., without consent of the
              Superintendent of Public Instruction.
          
          
            EQUALIZATION OF TAXATION.
            Mr. MARTINDALE offered a concurrent resolution authorizing the appointment of a joint
              Committee, to consist of four Senators and seven members of the House of
              Representatives, to which shall be referred the subject of the equalization of
              appraisement of real estate and of taxation and assessment of railroads; and that
              portion of the Governor's message in reference thereto--said committe to be so
              constituted as to embrace one member from each Congressional district of the
              State.
            Mr. HUGHES, objected to the railroad part part of the resolution--it would confer an
              immense power on that proposed committee, affecting the railroad interests of the
              State.
            Mr. MARTINDALE thought the committee should only fix a rate and report by bill or
              otherwise at this session; and these latter words he added to the resolution.
            Mr. JOHNSTON moved to amend by appropriately inserting the words " by the
              Senate."
            The motion was rejected.
            Mr. GREENE demanded a division of the question.
            The part of the resolution proposing to refer to the committee so much of the
              Governor's message as relates to the appraisement of real estate by the Board of
              Equalization was rejected by--yeas 22; nays 24.
            Mr. GRAY thought Senators might, now have an opportunity to say whether they will
              favor such a law as that the equalization of railroad taxation may be made the same as
              the other taxables of the State.
            Mr. HUGHES insisted that the simple vote as to whether a joint committee shall be
              raised on this subject would not warrant the construction placed upon it by the
              Senator. He demanded the previous question.
            Twenty-six Senators seconded the demand, and thereupon
            The latter part of the concurrent resolution, referring to the joint committee the
              subject of the assessment and taxation of railroads and the equalization of railroad
              assessments, was also rejected by yeas 22, nays 24.
            On motion by Mr. DITTEMORE, his motion to reconsider the vote just taken was laid on
              the table.
          
          
            CLAIMS OF THE STATE.
            Mr. HUGHES introduced a joint resolution [S. 6] for the adjustment and collection of
              unsettled claims in favor of the State of Indiana.
            
              
                
                  Resolved by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
                    That the Attorney-General of the State be, amd is hereby directed and
                    authorized, to examine into and collect by suit, or other-  wise, all claims, debts and chores in action now due
                    and owing to the State of Indiana, and to adjust all unsettled claims due the
                    State from insolvent debtors, by accepting property either real or personal
                    bonds, stocks or mortgages at a fair valuation by and with the consent and
                    approval of the Governor, either in full or in part of such claims against
                    insolvent debtors.
                  And the said Attorney General shall have power and authority without further
                    warrant to institute and conduct in the name of the State in any court or courts
                    of competent jurisdiction any and all suits and proceedings at law or in
                    iniquity necessary in his judgment to the execution of the foregoing powers, or
                    to protect or secure any of the property which may be acquired by the State in
                    pursuance thereof and the rights of the State therein. And the said Attorney
                    General is hereby authorized, whenever in his judgment it may be necessary and
                    proper, to employ counsel for the State, to assist him in the premises, provided
                    no fees shall be paid such assistant counsel until authorized by the State
                    Legislature. And the Governor of the State is requested to defray from his
                    contingent fund all expenses of printing and traveling expenses of counsel
                    incurred in the aforesaid business Provided that nothing in this joint
                    resolution shall prejudice any pending suit in the name of the State.
                
              
            
            Mr. GRAY regarded the power granted by this resolution as entirely too full and
              sweeping, and claiming, that it has not heretofore been the practice to clothe the
              Attorney General with so much power.
            Mr. MARTINDALE thought this not coming under the authority of the Constitution, and
              did not like to vote for such a resolution. The law now gives that officer power to
              collect claims due the State.
            Mr. SCOTT inquired what particular account was intended to be settled by this
              resolution.
            Mr. HUGHES replied that there were a good many defaulters over the State; some
              outstanding claims growing out of the trust funds, and some claims unsettled in the
              district represented by the Senator from Jasper [Mr. Dwiggins]. He could not tell
              exactly where the blows may fall, and the object of the resolution is that the
              Attorney General shall hunt them up. And he intended the resolution to cover the case
              where the Terre Haute and Richmond Railroad is indebted to the school fund in an
              amount somewhere in the neighborhood of a million of dollars. There are other smaller
              debtors, and may be some larger ones.
            Mr. SCOTT thought it hardly proper to send this officer marauding over the State in
              this way. He had no objection to suit being brought whenever necessary ; he cared
              nothing about the purpose to sue the Terre Haute and Richmond Railroad; but he thought
              there should be others to concur with the Attorney General before suit shall be
              commenced in any case.
            Pending the consideration of this question--
            Came the recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumedthe chair at 2 o'clock P. M., and the Senate proceeded
              with the consideration of the order pending at the time it took the recess for
              dinner.
            Mr. SCOTT moved to amend by appropriately inserting the words "by the advice and with
              the concurrence of the Governor, Auditor and Secretary and Treasurer of State."
            Mr. HUGHES objected to the amendment because he apprehended,the Supreme Court of the
              United States would be the proper tribunal to try the case that may be made against
              the Terre Haute and Richmond Railroad, and thereupon proceeded to state reasons based
              upon the particular and peculiar rulings of that court in causes brought therein. If
              the amendment were drawn so as to except suits the Attorney General may bring in the
              Supreme Court, he would not object.
            Mr. GLESSNER moved ineffectually to amend the amendment by striking out, whereever
              they occur, the words "Auditor, Treasurer and Secretary of State."
            Mr. SCOTT spoks in opposition to the turning loose of the Attorney General of the
              State without the advice and countenance of the Governor, Auditor, Secretary and
              Treasurer of State; and declared his opposition to the resolution, even though his
              amendment should be adopted. If a resolution were introduced instructing the Attorney
              General to bring suit, against the Terre Haute and Richmond Railroad, he would simply
              content himself with voting against it. He would offer no amendments.
            Mr MARTINDALE declared himself willing to vote for such a resolution--for suit
              against this railroad.
            Mr. HUGHES stated that there was no danger of the State losing anything by insituting
              suit for claims--the attorneys retained by the State officer are to receive nothing
              except what the Legislature may choose to give them--which would be influenced by the
              benefits which may accrue to the State.
            Mr. MARTINDALE regarded this resolution as making a transfer of power heretofore
              exercised by the Governor, and such unlimited power might work injury to the
              State.
            Mr. HUGHES. The Supreme Court has decided that no cross bill can be filed as against
              a sovereign State without her consent. It is not possible for the State to be damaged
              by this measure.
            After a conversational debate, participated in by Messrs. HUGHES, SCOTT and
              HADLEY--
            Mr. MARTINDALE asked Mr. Hughes if he would accept an amendment appropriately
              inserting the words "by and with the advice and consent of the Governor."
            Mr. HUGHES assented;he would take the Governor all the way through.
            Mr. SCOTT thereupon withdrew his amendment.
            The joint resolution was then adopted by yeas 44, nays 1.
            
              RECESS TILL MONDAY.
              On motion by Mr. BOBO it was-

              

              Ordered, That when the Senate adjourn it be till Monday at 2
                o'clock.
            
            
              LEAVES OF ABSENCE
              were granted to Messrs. Beggs and Hubbard till Thursday morning, and Messrs. Cave
                and Elliott till Tuesday morning.
            
            
              BILLS FOR ACTS.
              Mr. HUGHES, (by request) introduced a bill [S. 87], to amend an act to provide a
                treasury system for the State of Indiana for the manner of receiving, holding and
                disbursing the public monies of the State, and for the safe keeping of the public
                monies, so as to provide for the violation thereof, and to better carry out the
                objects of said act.
              Mr. HUGHES (by request) introduced a bill [S. 88], making appropriations for
                erecting a suitable building for the accommodation of the cabinet of natural history
                belonging to the Indiana University, and for extinguishing the debts and enlarging
                the usefulness thereof. It proposes to appropriate $50,000 for the building, and
                $16,000 to extinguish the debt incurred by the purchase of the Owen cabinet.
              Mr. MILLER introduced a bill [S. 89] to amend section 24 of an act entitled "An act
                regulating descents, and the apportionment of estates, approved May 14, 1852, and
                amendatory to said act."
              These bills were severally read the first time and passed to the second
                reading.
            
            
              FEMALE SUFFRAGE.
              The hour of 3 o'clock having arrived--
              On motion of Mr. BEESON, the Senate repaired in a body to the Hall of the House of
                Representatives, in pursuance of an order heretofore adopted, to receive a memorial,
                to be presented there by a committee of ladies, praying for enactments to remove
                political restrictions of women.
              When the Senators returned and order had been restored--
              Mr. BEESON offered a resolution, as follows:
              
                
                  
                    Resolved, That the Committee "On the Righ's and Privileges
                      of the Inhabitants of the State" are requested to report, at an early day,
                      upon the power and propriety of the Legislature submitting by law the question
                      of female suffrage to a vote of the women of the State, and the passage of an
                      amendment to the constitution giving such rights of suffrage when approved by
                      a majority of the women voting at such election.
                  
                
              
              The resolution was adopted by yeas 37, nays 3.
              Mr. MORGAN offered a resolution that a Committee of three be appointed to draw up
                resolutions as an amendment to the Constitution of the State giving the women the
                right to vote.
              On motion, by Mr. Hughes, the resolution was referred to the special committee on
                this subject.
            
            
              NEW PROPOSITIONS.
              The following described bills were introduced, read the first time and severally
                passed to the second reading, except as stated.
              By Mr. TAYLOR, a bill [S. 90], to amend section 63 and 69 of chapter 12 of the act
                of March 14, 1867, for the incorporation of cities.
              By Mr. WOOD, a bill [S. 91], to amend section 561 of the general practice act of
                June, 18, 1852.
              By Mr. CAVEN, a bill [S 92] authorizing the investment of money belonging to, and
                that may come into the possession of the Sinking Fund of the State ot Indiana. When
                the sum amounts to $10,000, in registered bonds of the United States.
              Mr. MARTINDALE, stating that the interest on the moneys now in that fund would
                amount to $100 a day, moved a dispensation of the constitutional provision, that the
                bill may be pressed to its second reading.
              The motion was agreed to by--yeas, 46; nays, none--and the bill was read by title
                and referred to the appropriate committee.
              By Mr. GREENE, a bill [S. 93] to provide for the payment of certain claims for the
                ditching of swamp lands out of the general swamp land fund.
              By Mr. MORGAN, a bill [S 94] to prevent public roads from being changed, or
                constructed in certain cases therein provided for.
              By Mr. REESON, a bill [S 95] to amend section 10 of the justices of the peace act,
                approved June 9, 1852.
              By Mr. HAMILTON, a bill [S. 96] to further define the offense of bribery and to
                define the punishment therefor.
              By Mr. HENDERSON, [S. 97],supplemental to an act authorizing the assessment of
                lands for plank, McAdamized and gravel road companies, and repealing the law of
                March 11,1869. approved May 14, 1869.
              By Mr. ANDREWS, [S. 98], to confirm and make valid sales of real estate by trustees
                of domestic or foreign executors.
              By Mr. BRADLEY, [S. 99], in relation to the taking, holding and transmitting of
                real estate by aliens.
              By Mr. ARMSTRONY, [S. 100], to make parties in suits for divorces competent
                witnesses, and repealing all laws in conflict therewith.
              By Mr. BEARDSLEY, a bill [S. 101] to amend section 5 of the common school law,
                approved March 6, 1865.
              By Mr. CAVE, a bill [S. 102] to amend section 47 of the act of June 17, 1852,
                providing for the opening, vacation and change of highways.
              By Mr. HUBBARD, (by request), a bill [S. 103] to amend section 3 of the act
                regulating docket fees of Prosecuting and District Attorneys, approved June 4,
                1861.
              And then--
              The Senate adjourned--under the resolution adopted this afternoon until 2 o'clock
                on Monday.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            FRIDAY, January 20, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.
          On motion of Mr. NEFF, Mr. Cauthorn was called to the chair, in the temporary absence
            of the Speaker.

          

          The journal of yesterday was read and approved, till,
          On motion of Mr. BALLENGER the reading was dispensed with.
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The SPEAKER announced the unfinished business of yesterday, vis: the call of the
              counties for bills and resolutions.
            Mr. WARREN introduced a bill [H. R. 133], for an act to regulate the sale and use of
              intoxicating liquors, to abolish the use thereof and to give remedy for those injured
              by the use thereof, etc. [Applicants may have permits of the County Auditor to sell,
              by giving bonds, &c.; penalties from $5 to $500, and imprisonment at discretion,
              repealing, &c ]
            On motion of Mr. BUTTERWORTH, it was referred to the Committee on
                Temperance.
            Mr. MILLIKAN introduced a bill [H. R. 134] for an act (without title read) providing
              that domestic animals shall not run at large without permission of local authority.
              [Penalties $1 to $5, for the use of township schools ]
            It was referred to the Committee on Rights and Privileges
          
          
            TERRE HAUTE AND INDIANAPOLIS RAILROAD COMPANY.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam and Hendricks, offered the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
                    That his Excellency, the Governor of the State, be and is hereby empowered,
                    directed ard instructed to collect by suit in any court of competent
                    jurisdiction, or otherwise, of and from the Terre Haute and Indianapolis
                    Railroad Company, by its present or any previous corporate name, all claims,
                    dues and demands, rightfully owing and due to the State or to any of its trust
                    funds from said company, its stockholders or predecessors in corporate powers
                    and privileges, and the Governor is hereby authorized to employ counsel and do
                    whatever else is necessary to effectively prosecute the collection of said
                    claims Provided, that the Governor or counsel by him employed
                    shall not have power to compromise any such claims, suits or proceedings without
                    the approval of the General Assembly.
                
              
            
            Mr. MARTIN said: I prefer that this resolution should be disposed of now, without the
              delay that would be necessitated by reference. And in order that Representatives may
              fully comprehend the importance of this matter, I desire to offer a few words of
              explanation. By a provision of the charter of the Terre Haute and Richmond Railroad,
              now known as the Terre Haute and Indianapolis Railroad, when the aggregate amount of
              dividends declared shall amount to the full sum invested and 10 per cent. per annum
              theron: all of its earnings over and above 15 per cent. on the capital employed are to
              be paid over to the Treasurer of State for the use of the common schools. Their
              charter also provides that in times of war, the State shall have the right to
              transport troops, munitions of war and provisions over said road free of tolls. At the
              regular session of the last General Assembly, a special committee was raised in the
              House for the purpose of investigating the affairs of this road, with the view of
              ascertaining what sums, if any, were due the State from this corporation. The
              committee made full inquiry and thorough examination of the affairs of the road, and
              made a lengthy report to the House, showing that the earnings of the road have been
              largely in excess of the maximum fixed by its charter; that in addition to their
              regular semi-annual and large extra dividends, the company have invested out of their
              earnings more than a half million of dollars in government bonds, and stocks and bonds
              of other railroads; that they have watered their stock to the extent of nearly two
              millions, and that the company have never paid one dollar into the Treasury of the
              State. The report also shows that the company, during the late war, charged and
              collected from the State large sums of money for the transportation of troops,
              munitions of war, and provisions.
            The report concludes as follows:
            "They therefore recommend that a committee of three be appointed by the Chair to
              further investigate, with power to send for persons and papers and to administer
              oaths, and upon consultation with the Attorney General and Governor of the State to
              institute any proceeding necessary to insure a just settlement of all questions of
              liability of said railroad company to the State, and recommend the adoption of a
              resoltution providing for the appointment of said committee appended hereto."
            A committee of three was accordingly appointed, and at the special session of 1869
              this committee was, on motion of its chairman, continued with all the powers conferred
              at the regular session. But for some inexplicable reason nothing further was ever
              heard from it. The investigation seems to have died an untimely and unnatural death in
              the arms of the chairman.
            Recently a suit against the railroad for the claims has been commenced in the Putnam
              Circuit Court by the Prosecuter of that Circuit, assisted by two able and
              distinguished lawyers. I have full confidence in the integrity and ability of the
              gentlemen who have the matter in hand; but as there is a large amount of money
              involved, and the people of the State have a deep interest in the issue of this suit,
              it is preferable that some officer of the State should have charge of it, some one
              whom we can hold responsible for the energetic and efficient prosecution of the
              suit.
            Mr. NEFF (interposing and Mr. M. giving way.) I was on that committee to which the
              gentleman refers, which was appointed two years ago and which made that report. And
              the suit mentioned as pending in Putnam county was founded on the action of that
              committee. I have seen the complaint; but I understand that, among other things, it
              charges that the Terre Haute Railroad Company have already forfeited their charter.
              The point to which I wish to direct attention is this: I understand that the
              Prosecuting Attorney, who commenced this suit, has full power to do so. Now the
              question is, whether, if we adopt this resolution, we do not lose certain rights we
              now have under the law? Do we not lose rights of which we might  avail ourselves by ignoring what a State officer has
              begun? I want to say here that I am in favor of prosecuting that suit. I think this is
              a matter of sufficient importance to command attention. It involves, perhaps, a
              million of dollars. Would it be prudent for this House, by adopting this resolution,
              to pay to the State officer in Putnam county, We will not recognize you? We will take
              this matter out of your hands, although you have called to your assistance as able
              counsel as there is in the Wabash Valley ? I do not think we would lose any thing by
              waiting a few days. I would like to know if it is the purpose of my colleague to
              ignore the action of that Prosecuting Attorney.
            Mr. MARTIN. ln reply to my colleague, I will say that it is not the object of my
              resolution to ignore, supercede, or interfere with the proceedings instituted in the
              Putnam Circuit Court, but only to charge an officer of the State with supervision of
              the matter. I have read the complaint filed in the Putnam Court, and am well satisfied
              with it, and only seek by my resolution to fix responsibility upon the Executive of
              the State for its prosecution to judgment.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. What is the provision of the charter of this railroad company
              under which the State claims?
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam. Read section 23 of said charter.
            Mr. GORDON of Boone was in favor of the resolution, but considered it would be well
              to defer the matter to a day certain, that members might be fully advised as to the
              condition of the road and its relation to the State, as shown by the investigations of
              the Committee of the last General Assembly. I had the honor of being a member of that
              Committee; and I became convinced that suit should be commenced against the
              corporation in favor of the State, that the matter might be fully tested. We became
              convinced that under the charter of this Railroad Company that the State was entitled
              to certain repayments--to recover back the amount charged by the Company to the State
              for transportation of troops, etc. We understood that the company had no right to make
              these charges against the State. We investigated the matter as thoroughly as we were
              able, and made a report and were discharged; and another committee--a committee of
              three--was appointed to pursue the investigation. That committee did nothing. I would
              advise that the consideration of this resolution be postponed to a day certain, so
              that members may have the benefit of the investigation referred to. I can not see how
              the proposed instructions to the Governor, to bring suit, would hinder the action
              already commenced in Putnam county. I will therefore move that the subject be
              postponed till Wednesday at 2 o'clock P. M., and that it be the special order tor that
              hour.
            The motion was agreed to, and the order was made accordingly.
          
          
            FEMALE SUFFRAGE.
            Mr. WILLIAMS offered an order, which was adobted, that Senators be invited to meet
              with members of the House of Representatives, in the Hall of the House, at 3 o'clock
              this afternoon, to hear the address and memorial of certain ladies entrusted
              therewith, on the subject of female suffrage.
            Mr. WILLIAMS introduced a bill [H. R. 135] for an act to amend section 5 of the act
              to amend sections 18, 24, 25, 26 of the act regulating descents and the apportionment
              of estates, approved May 14, 1852, and adding a supplemental section to the act of
              March 4, 1853. [Upon the decease of the husband or the wife, personal estate shall
              descend alike to the widower and widow.]
          
          
            THE NEWSPAPERS.
            Mr. MONTGOMERY submitted the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved. That from and after the passage of this resolution
                    the following papers, heretofore ordered by the House of Representatives, shall
                    be discontinued, to-wit: Daily Commercial, Evening News and Indiana American.
                
              
            
            Mr. BIGGS desired to amend so as to include the discontinuance of the WEEKLY JOURNAL
              and the Weekly Sentinel, so that each member of the House shall
              receive but one copy of the DAILY JOURNAL and the Daily Sentinel. I
              notice that these weeklies do not contain reports of proceedings of the General
              Assembly.
            Mr. WILSON inquired if the Indiana American was ever ordered.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam. I hope the weekly papers will not be cut off. They publish a
              connected synopsis of the proceedings.
            Mr. SIMPSON. I understand that there is a committee which takes charge of these
              matters, and that all such propositions as these should be referred to that committee
              without debate.
            The SPEAKER. Better settle it now in the House.
            Mr BIGGS. We take six copies of the Weekly Sentinel and of the
              WEEKLY JOURNAL, and upon examination I find that they contain nothing of the
              proceedings except the general summary, which amounts to nothing to the reader. I have
              had it suggested to me by those receiving them, that they would as soon have none. Now
              we can have six copies of the dailies at the same cost.
            Mr McDONALD. I do hope the matter will go to the Committee
            Mr CALKINS of Fulton and Koaciusko. I move to amend by inserting in the proper place:
              "Two copies additional of the Daily Sentinel, and two copies
              additional of the DAILY JOURNAL, which shall be wrapped and stamped."
            Mr. GORDON of Boone. I send no papers to my constituents but the dailies, for the
              reason that the weeklies do not contain the proceedings--their summaries do not amount
              to anything. I have thrown them under my table so far. When I tax my constituents to
              pay for the general distribution of reading matter--not of the proceedings of this
              body it is an insult to them. We might as well take any other papers published in the
              State. I hope the amendment of the gentleman from Kosciusko will prevail

            

            Mr. CALDWELL, I concur with the remarks of the gentleman from Boone.
            Mr. SIMPSON read from the journal of January 6 the resolution to which he referred,
              which rules the reference of all propositions relating to newspapers, stamps, etc.,
              without debate.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, would like some gentleman who can read the German language to
              tell the House whether the German newspapers received here contain the proceedings. If
              not, he would have them also stricken out.
            Mr. Calkins amendment was agreed to.
            Mr. HAWLEY. I have a large German constituency, though I do not read the language;
              and I would like to distribute the proceedings in German.
            The SPEAKER. I have a large number of German constituents; but they are all liberal
              men, and pay for their own papers.
            Mr. ABBETT. I said when this question was first broached, that I was opposed to
              taking any newspapers, except one copy each of the Journal and the
                Sentinel--unwrapped; and I am now opposed to taking any but
              these--one copy of each. The principal objection to the papers proposed to be
              discontinued here is that they do not contain the proceedings in full. But what does
              it amount to to take any of these papers for the proceedings here?--even the Sentinel and Journal? If we send one copy, say this
              morning, to one man, on to-morrow to another, and so on, not more than two or three
              copies would reach the same person.
            The resolution as amended was then adopted.
            Mr. BIGGS introduced a bill [H. R. 136] for an act to amend section 1 of the act to
              exempt property from sale under execution in certain cases.
            Mr. WOOD [H. R. 137], for an act to fix the time of holding Courts of Common Pleas in
              the Sixteenth Judicial District--repealing, etc.
            Mr. KING [H. R. 138], for an act to amend sections 2 and 3 of the act to incorporate
              the Indianapolis Gas Light and Coke Company, approved February 12, 1857. [Their real
              estate shall not exceed $100,000 in value; capital stock may be increased to
              $700,000.]
            It was referred to the Committee on Corporations.
            Mr. RUDDELL, [H. R. 139] for an act for the encouragement of Manufacturing, Milling,
              and Elevating.
            Mr. BEELER, [H. R. 140], for an act for furthering the interest of agriculture and
              horticulture by the preservation and protection of insects and song birds. Penalties
              to go into the common school fund.
            It was referred to Committee on Agriculture.
            Mr. BEELER, [H. R. 141], for an act providing a homestead of $1,000 to householders
              and heads of families. It was referred to the same committee.
            Mr. WILSON and Mr. BEELER presented a paper, which, without reading, were presented
              to the Committee on Claims.
            Mr. BEELER presented a paper without reading, which was referred to the
                Committee on the House of Refuge.
            Mr. BEELER offered a resolution for instruction to the Committee on Education to
              consider the propriety of purchasing copies of Indiana Reminiscences by the Hon. O. H.
              Smith for the township libraries of the State.
          
          
            TERRE HAUTE AND INDIANAPOLIS RAILROAD COMPANY.
            Mr. STEPHENSON submitted the following, which was read and made the special order for
              Wednesday, with the matter submitted this morning by the gentleman from Putnam (Mr.
              Martin):
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the Governor be requested furnish to this
                    House on or before Wednesday next, any information he may have in reference to
                    the suit now pending in the Putnam Circuit Court against the Terre Haute
                    Railroad in behalf of the State: and also what power, if any, is nescessary to
                    be given him to further prosecute such suit.
                
              
            
            Mr. COPPER introduced a bill [H. R. 142] for an act to amend section 5 of the act to
              amend sections 18, 24, 25, and 26 of the act regulating descents and the apportionment
              of estates--of May 14, 1852, and of March 4, 1853.
            Mr. MYERS--[H. R. 143], for an act to provide temporarily poor persons in each of the
              several townships of the State, and prescribing the duty of Township Trustees in
              relation thereto.
            Mr. COX submitted a concurrent resolution, that the General Assembly will make no
              provision for the payment of internal improvement bonds issued under the acts of 1846
              and 1847, known as the Butler bills.
            It was referred to the Committee on Canals.
            Mr. STANLEY submitted a preamble and resolution for direction of the State Geologist
              to extend his investigations into Northern Indiana.
            Mr. BALLENGER proposed to amend by including Eastern Indiana.
            After explanations and suggestions by Messrs. Beeler, McDonald, Ballenger, Cox,
              Davidson and Ruddell--
            On motion of Mr. BIGGS the resolution was referred to the Committee on
                Agriculture.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter, introduced a bill, [H. R. 144.] for an act to prescribe the
              terms of holding the Circuit Court in the 9th Judicial Circuit. It was referred to a
              special committee, namely: Messrs. W. P. Calkins, Wood, Washburn and Netherton.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter, submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                Committee on Education to inquire into the propriety of licensing
              teachers without regard to sex.
            Mr. NEFF. [H. R. 145,] for an act to amend Section 8 of an act to enable Trustees to
              receive lands and donations, and convey the same for the use of school and religious
              societies, etc., and for the construction of buildings, approved June 17, 1852.
            It was referred to the Committee on Corporations.

            

            Mr. STONE submitted a concurrent resolution, which was adopted, for a joint special
              committee to consist of four Senators and seven members of the House of
              Representatives, to consider so much of the Governor's message as relates to the
              equalization of the appraisement of real estate, the State Board of Equalization, and
              the equalization of railroad assessments, etc.; and that said committee be so
              constituted that each Congressional District shall be represented therein.
            Mr. STONE introduced a bill [H. R. 146] for an act to provide for the acquisition and
              enjoyment of lands by the United States of lands in this State.
            It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
          
          
            PERSONAL EXPLANATIONS.
            Mr. WILSON rose to a personal explanation in regard to the non-appearance in these
              reports of his remarks yesterday in the debate on the Superior Court bill [H. R.58],
              which being satisfactorily answered by others, he desired the record to be so
              corrected as to show that his colleague, Mr. Beeler, voted for that bill under
              protest.
            Mr. ST. JOHN also desired to make this correction. He was reported yesterday in the
              debate on the consideration of his bill [H. R. 89] for the assignment of mortgaged
              notes, to be recorded that there is now a provision of law that when a mortgage is
              paid the mortgagee must enter satisfaction under a penalty. He said there is now
              pending a bill to that effect.
            [The reporter desires to admit here, (and without public admonition.) that he himself
              finds emissions and errors in these reports too numerous and too reckless to mention
              all of them, both of the pen and of the types, for example: On the 18th of January Mr.
              Stone's road bill [H. R. 105] was attributed to Mr. Major; and Mr. Lines' game
              protection bill [H.R. 107] was ascribed to Mr. Holland; and in this connection the
              following were wholly drooped out:
            Mr. MAJOR[H. R. 104] for an act defining the powers and duties of Trustees in
              relation to school houses in their respective townships.
            Mr. HOLLAND [H. R. 106] for an act to prevent electors from voting for the office of
              supervisor in any other district than that in which they severally reside.]
          
          
            OFFICERS OF THE BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS.
            The SPEAKER now announced the order of the election of Trustees for the Institutions
              for the Education of the Blind and the Deaf and Dumb, and the Commissioner for the
              Hospital for the Insane.
            The nominations having been made--
            
              
                For Trustee of the Institution for the Blind Cassa Bianca Byfield
                  received..................
                51 votes
              
              
                John S. Spann
                  received...........................................................
                45 votes
              
              
                For Trustee for the Deaf and Dumb Wm. R. Hogshire
                  received.......................
                50 votes
              
              
                Dr. James Burt
                  received..........................................................
                46 votes
              
              
                For Commissioner of the Hospital for the Insane J. M. Caldwell
                  received.....................
                51 votes
              
              
                Dr. Louis Humphreys
                  received.....................................................
                45 votes
              
            
            The SPEAKER announced the result of the voting on the part of the House of
              Representatives, and it was ordered that the clerk acquaint the Senate thereof.
          
          
            THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
            Mr. WASHBURN introduced a bill [H. R. 147] for an act to protect the citizens of the
              State of Indiana from empiricism, and to elevate the medical profession.
            Mr. STRICKLAND moved that it be referred to a committee of seven physicians.
            Messrs. FURNAS and BUTTERWORTH (physicians) preferred that it should go to the
                Committee on Rights and Privileges.
            Mr. DEFREES preferred a special committee--the majority physicians.
            The House then took a recess till 2 o'clock P. M.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed at two o'clock P. M. and pursued the call of counties for bills
              and resolutions.
            Mr. KENNEDY introduced a bill [H. R. 148] for an act to amend section 1 of the act to
              authorize township trustees, etc., to levy taxes for school purposes.
            Mr. HENDERSON presented a claim, which was referred without reading to the
                Committee on Claims.
            Mr. COPNER--[H. R. 149] for an act in relation to the taking, holding and conveying
              of real estate by aliens.
            Mr. HOLLAND--(H. R. 150)--for an act to amend sections 1 and 3 of the act regulating
              docket fees of District Attorneys in the Common Pleas and before Justices of the
              Peace, and regulating District Attorneys' fees on forfeited recognizances, approved
              June 14, 1851.
            A message from the Senate announced majorities in that body for Cass Bianica Ryfield,
              for Trustee for the Blind Institution; for Wm. R. Hogshire, for Trustee for the Deaf
              and Dumb, and for James M. Caldwell, Commissioner for the Hospital for the Insane, and
              thereupon
            The SPEAKER announced their election according to law.
            Mr. RHODES introduced a bill [H. R. 151] for an act to encourage the destruction of
              red foxes.
            Mr. OATLEY offered a preamble and resolution directing the Committee on
                Agriculture to keep the channels of stagnant streams of water clear from
              obstructions of unheallhy drifts.
            It was adopted.
            Mr. BALLENGER, [H. R. 152], authorizing subpoena dencestekum to be
              served on officials sued on their bonds, for producing the original papers on trial,
              &c.
            It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Wayne[H. R. 153], for an act to amend section 74 of the common school
              law.
            It was referred to the Committee on Education.
            Mr. McDOWELL introduced a joint resolution for memorial to Congress for vacating the
              navigation of the Wabash river from its mouth to the Mississinewa, which was referred
              to the Committee on Federal Relations.
            The SPEAKER laid before the House a claim for injuries sustained by arbitary arrest,
              which was referred to the Committee on Claims.

            

            Mr. KNIGHT--[H. R. 155], for an act to amend section 24 of an set to regulate
              descents and the apportionments of estates, approved May 11,1852, and adding a
              supplemental section thereto, and repealing all contravening acts.
            It was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH-[H. R. 156], for an act to amend sections three and ten, and to
              repeal sections 13 and 14 of the act of 1869, to encourage levees, dykes and drains by
              incorporated companies.
            It was referred to the Committee on Drains and Sewers.
            Mr. McDONALD introduced a joint resolution reciting the complications and
              expensiveness of the Judicial system and authorizing the appointment of a Joint
              Special Committee of five, three on the part of the House of Representatives, and two
              on the part of the Senate, to reside severally each in the Supreme Court Districts,
              who shall investigate the subject, and report at the next session of the General
              Assembly.
            The SPEAKER announced the special committee on Mr. Washburn's medical profession bill
              [H. R. 147] namely: Messrs. Minick, Hawley, Oatley, Ballenger, Strickland.
            Also the special Committee on Drains and Sewers--Mr. Butterworth,
              Chairman.
            On motion of Mr. BIGGS it was ordered that when the House shall adjourn to-day it
              shall be till Monday at 2 o'clock p.m.
            
              THE CALENDAR.
              The Sixth Circuit Court bill, [S. 22,] giving more time in the counties of Putnam
                and Morgan--was finally passed the House of Representatives, yeas 93, nays 0.
              The Fifteenth Circuit, Court bill, [S. 35,] was finally passed the House of
                Representatives, yeas 91, nays 0.
              Mr. NETHERTON, (by unanimous consent,) presented a petition asking for legislation
                to protect the people of the State from imposition from incompetent medical
                practitioners.
              It was referred to the Committee on Rights and Privileges.
              On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS, the House took a recess till 3 o'clock.
            
            
              IN JOINT CONVENTION--FEMALE SUFFRAGE.
              At 3:50 o'clock the Doorkeeper and his assistants having made the needful arrange
                meets, and Senators, Representatives, and the delegation of ladies, seated and
                standing in order and readiness for the organization--
              The Lieutenant Governor presiding, on the right of the Speaker, opened the
                business, to wit: the hearing of the memorial of ladies on the question of Female
                Suffrage, and called for the action of those having the matter in charge;
                whereupon--
              Miss Amanda Way, of Marion county, advanced to the dais of the Speaker's table and
                read the following memorial:
              
                Mr. Speaker and Gentlemen of the House of Representatives:
              
              We come before you as a committee appointed by the Women's Suffrage Association to
                memorialize this honorable body in behalf of the Women of Indiana, to petition you
                to take steps to amend the Constitution of the State so as to give the rights of
                suffrage to women.
              We, your petitioners, believe that the extension of the full rights of citizenship
                to all the people of the State is in accordance with the genius of our Republic and
                with the principles of human equality and justice.
              We believe that, as woman has an equal interest with man in all public questions,
                she should therefore have an equal voice with him in deciding those questions.
              That as woman's life, property and happiness are equally dependent upon the
                maintenance of public order and morality, woman should therefore have an equal voice
                in the laws which aim to maintain the order and morals of society.
              We believe that, as woman is held equally responsible to the law, she should
                therefore have an equal voice in electing those who make the laws.
              We believe that as woman is human, she has also all human seeds, responsibilities
                and rights.
              We, your petitioners, believe that in this question of equality before the law for
                woman lies other grave interests of equality before the public mind in other
                departments of life.
              And that this first step of justice for woman must be taken before any important
                progress can be made in awarding woman justice in wages, work and education.
              We believe that the interest of both men and women is deeply involved in the
                recognition of equality of rights in all departments of human interests. And that in
                the progress of civilisation, we have come to a time when we can no longer brand
                woman with inferiority of rights and of nature without grave injury to all interests
                of humanity,and christianity.
              We, your petitioners, therefore ask you our lawgivers, to aid in giving woman her
                rightful position with you in the human work and human interests of the world.
              The considerations set forth in the memorial were enforced in speeches by Miss Way
                and Mrs. Swank, of Indianapolis. And then--
              The LIEUT. GOVERNOR prorogued the Convention sine die.
              The SPEAKER resumed the Chair.
              Mr. STONE made an ineffectual motion to reconsider the vote adopting the order to
                adjourn over till Monday.
              And then the House adjourned till Monday 2 o'clock P. M.
              Below is the speech of Mr. O. M. WILSON delivered in the House on yesterday, upon
                his Superior Court bill. See page 119
              Mr. SPEAKER : I ask the indulgence of the House while I briefly
                present the features of this bill. Since our noon adjournment I have conferred with
                a number of members, who have expressed a willingness to vote for the bill, but
                hesitate to support it, even as amended by the committee. To enable them to do so I
                desire it understood now, that I will accept an amendment which will be offered by
                the gentleman from Madison (Mr. Sansbarry). When the House is ready to put the bill
                on in passage. That amendment is this: In place of the amendment offered by the
                  Committee on Courts, to so amend section 29 as to require the
                county to pay $2,000 and the State $1,000 of the salary of each of the judgees.
                Consent then having been given that the bill shall stand so amended, I shall occupy
                but little of the time of the House in speaking of its provisions.

              

              The bill contains substantially these provisions :
              
                It only applies to counties having an incorporated city containing not
                  less than forty thousand inhabitants; hence, this court can only be organized in
                  Marion county, though it is general in its terms.
                The court is composed of three judges. They will distribute the
                  business among themselves, and sit separately in the trial ot causes, except that
                  any judge desiring it may call others to sit in hearing important arguments on
                  legal questions, or eves trials.
                An appeal lies as a matter of right from a cause heard by one judge at
                  special term to general term held by at least two judges. The cause is heard on
                  appeal on the original papers and records made in the cause, and such matters as
                  are made part thereof by bills of exception. No transcript is made out, and hence
                  no costs accrue by reason of the appeal to general term. From general term an
                  appeal lies to the Supreme Court as in cases from Circuit Courts.
                The Court has all the jurisdiction of Circuit Courts except in actions
                  for slander, and the jurisdiction of the Common Pleas Courts except in probate
                  business.
                The Court will hold its terms each month, and continue from the first
                  Monday of each month until the Saturday before the next term, with the exception,
                  however, of the months of July and August, when no term will be held, without it
                  may be to dispose pending business.
                The Court is as nearly as our system of practice will allow like the
                  Superior Court at Cincinnati, Ohio; Cleveland, Ohio; Chicago, Illinois; Buffalo,
                  New York, and New York City, and other cities.
              
              In fact a Court of this character has been found necessary and best adapted to the
                wants of all the larger cities and commercial centers. In all such localities
                experience has shown that the complications of business, and litigation demand two
                Courts of nearly the same general jurisdiction to afford relief and give
                satisfaction to all parties; many causes often springing out of the same
                transaction, parties often wish to try some of them in different Courts.
              It is impossible to remodel the Circuit Court so as to meet the necessities of the
                case, and besides we wish it to remain as it is. To adapt the Common Pleas to our
                wants is impossible, because various questions of practice and jurisdiction now
                applicable to the Common Pleas Courts generally would have to be changed, and could
                not be done by special legislation tor a particular Common Pleas Court; besides
                constitutional objections to such an attempt meet us at almost every step, and are
                insurmountable. In fact, a system adapted to our wants and necessities can not well
                be adapted to the wants of other localities in our State. Marion county is our great
                commercial center, and not only commercial, but every kindred interest, and handmaid
                to industry and art; indeed, all branches of production and effort, the intercourse
                of men, and the reciprocating exchanges of their fabrics and products, finds
                advancement and encouragement in our midst. Amid all these influences, nourishing
                every art and branch of science, as we do, our community is becoming restless, and
                while the spirit of our enterprise and commerce is seeking new outlets and
                facilities to enrich and adorn our commonwealth, we want to feel and know that these
                ties binding us to distant towns shall, instead of being narrowed and hardened by
                selfish influence, become the means of promoting every theory and form of interest
                that can advance the glory of our State.
              A writer in the Sentinel speaks well to the point, to which I now desire to call
                the attention of the House, in showing the necessity for such a judicial system as
                is sought by the creation of this court.
              On the question of court reform, he says:
              "Our State is made up of an active, trading, fastly-increasing population, and it
                is the observation of every intelligent man that the legal business is increasing
                everywhere. We must have courts; we must have judges, and they must be paid. The
                question for the legislator is, What system will produce the greatest amount of
                actual work at the lowest price. * * * * * That court will do well which by the end
                of the second week of the term, after consuming the forenoon of each day of the
                second week in hearing demurrers and motions, has succeeded in getting on all the
                cases on the docket at issue and ready for trial. And yet, during all this time,
                parties and witnesses have been in and about the court, jurors have been sitting
                idly by, and an additional force of bailiffs has of necessity been on hand. The
                confusion attending the press of the crowd has been a source of annoyance and
                vexation to both judge and lawyer, and has actually been the occasion of retarding
                business. * * * But the number of witnesses attending from and after Tuesday of the
                first week to the close of the second, in a county requiring three weeks or more of
                a term of court, will average fifty per day; and these witnesses are not only idlers
                and non-producers, but they must be paid for their time by some one, and their fees
                will amount to over five hundred dollars! The time lost by the jury, estimating it
                at three days--and six would be nearer the truth--costs the people seventy-five
                dollars, to which add the costs of extra bailiffs, and we will have a hundred
                dollars. Here is over six hundred dollars wasted away during one term of court, and
                in three counties--a fair circuit--we have during the year over thirty-six hundred
                dollars sunk, and all owing to the anamolous judiciary system with which we are
                cursed. Starve the judges for the sake of economy, and gut the people's pockets by
                an expensive system of courts!
              "There may be those who think this calculation extravagant. In small or thinly
                populated counties, it would not hold good, of course. I do not pretend it would.
                But in counties of twenty thousand inhabitants I have known witness fees alone, to
                foot up  during one term, over a thousand
                dollars, which could have been saved to litigants under a system providing for a
                criminal, an issue and a trial term of court."
              During the past year over 2,700 cases have been commenced in the Circuit and Common
                Pleas Courts of our County.
              I will briefly allude to the resume made at the end of the year 1870: In the
                Circuit Court0a the 1st day of January, 1870, the docket of this court contained 628
                cases, to which there have been added during the year 510 cases, making a total of
                1,138 docketed. The court was in session 229 days, and the record of its
                proceedings, that is of verdicts, findings, orders, decrees, rules, etc., fills
                1,255 pages of 500 words each; or 627,500 words.
              Jurors in this court received during the year, per diem and mileage, $3,912 13.
              In the Common Pleas, on the first of January, 1870, the docket contained 307 cases.
                During the year, 1,223 new cases were filed, making the total 1,530 docketed.
              The record of the civil docket comprises 1,590 pages, 500 words on a page, and the
                probate record 577 pages, making a total of 2,167 pages, and 1,083,500. Paid to
                jurors, $3,889 94; assignments for benefit of creditors, 1; wills admitted to
                probate, 48; administrators appointed, 204; guardians appointed, 92; executors
                appointed, 20; estates settled, 48; transcripts to bind real estates, 83.
              In the Common Pleas the call of the docket for trial commenced at the first of the
                docket on the first Monday of September last, and continued without intermission,
                passing all causes where the parties did not happen to be ready at the time the
                cause was called, and only about the fifteenth of this month was the Court enabled
                to reach causes for trial commenced six months before.
              In the circuit court pursuing the same course, but commencing the call in February
                of last year, the court is now trying causes that have been upon the docket for some
                eight months. There are many causes in each court awaiting trial that have been
                there one and two years and even longer.
              Our probate business is very large and constantly increasing, and
                is in addition to the business of which I have been speaking, and in such a crowded
                state of the docket that it can not receive the attention and care it demands.
              Again. There is such a continued pressure for the trial of cases that it is seldom
                that time is obtained to consider important questions of law--all matters are
                hastily disposed of; arguments are seldom made, except under the pressure of very
                short limitations ; and although business may be disposed of properly, it is more or
                less unsatisfactory to litigants.
              Except during the first day, or possibly in rare instances the second day's causes,
                no cause can be tried on the day set down on the docket for trial--dividing the
                large number of causes among the several days of the form will not permit it to be
                otherwise. The cost to parties by delay, hearing witnesses in attendance from day to
                day, and to say nothing of their own loss of time, is immense. The salaries of the
                additional judges is but small in comparison with this cost of delay.
              By the distribution of business among three judges, and their ability to set causes
                for trial on particular days, it is confidently believed that the exceptions will be
                the other way, and seldom but that a case will be tried on the day set, and on the
                day witnesses are first in attendance. It must be remembered that the concentration
                of business at the capital of the State--it also being the greatest railroad center
                in the United States, with a large number of insurance companies doing business all
                over the State, having their chief offices here, express companies, commission
                houses, and banks and manufactories, all tend to, and do largely increase the
                litigation here over and above what the population would seem to indicate; and the
                causes, many of them, involve in amount, and in their complications, great
                interests, and important questions of law and practice.
              I hope I need not make a plea for the salary. We want this Superior Court to be a
                court of the highest character, one that will possess the confidence of the people.
                It will be a court requiring the constant labor of the judges. No idle time will be
                afforded them, and the men whose services we want can not be had for less than the
                salary named. Each man must, and will, make large sacrifices to take the bench, even
                at the figures named in the bill.
              The State owes it to its citizens to supply them with courts--we only ask what we
                need. The court is not for ornament or style, but simply to do the necessary
                business with dispatch"speedily and without delay."
              When we remember that Marion county pays one thirteenth of the taxes of the State;
                thus paying the salaries of two other Circuit Judges besides her own, through the
                State Treasury, we feel that no one knowing our necessity will refuse the relief
                prayed for, not only by the entire profession of our county, but by the people,
                numbering nearly 70,000.
              In conclusion, let me not be understood as standing here supplicating for my constituents. They did not send me here for that
                purpose. I am not here a representative of Marion county alone, but of the State,
                and what I do will not be done in a partisan spirit, but for the good and welfare of
                the people. I ask only what is right, what is reqired, what the law gives me the
                right to claim, and when in an exigency of this character--when my people, under our
                present judicial system, are driven to the wall, I demand for them relief, and in
                the spirit of justice I appeal to this assembly to hear their prayer.
              I ask for the passage of the bill.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            MONDAY, January 23, 1871.
          
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at 2 o'clock P. M., and having commanded
            order--
          Chaplain service was conducted by Elder Elijah Goodwin, Pastor of the Third Christian
            Church, and Associate Editor of the Christian Monitor and the American Housewife.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR directed the Secretary to read the minutes of Saturday's
            proceedings, but--
          Mr. DITTEMORE interposed a demand for a call of the Senate.
          It was ordered and being taken discovered but thirty-two Senators present and
            responding to their names.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR in announcing the number of Senators answering to their names,
            declared that no quorum was present.
          And thereupon--
          The Senate adjourned till ten o'clock tomorrow morning.
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            MOXDAY, January 23, 1871.
          
          The order of prayer, by the Rev. Mr. Bruner, of the Church of the United Brethren in
            Christ.
          The Journal of Friday was read--till,
          On motion of Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, its further reading was disposed with.
          On motion of Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, it was ordered that his Constitutional Convention
            bill [H. R. 105] be taken up and made the special order for Wednesday next at 11 o'clock
            A. Mto be considered in Committee of the Whole House.
          A message from the Senate announced the passage of a joint resolution [S. 6] for State
            claims.
          
            THE. CALENDAR--THE WORD "WHITE."
            Mr. Wilson's engrossed bill [H. R. 82] to amend the act providing for the periodical
              enumeration of the white male inhabitants of the State, over the age of twenty-one
              years, was read the third time and considered on the final passage. It amends the
              title and the several sections of the bill so as to strike out the word "white"
              wherever it occurs therein.
            Mr. WILSON stated the single object of the bill.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, understood that the act amended provided for this enumeration
              till the year 1871; and that this bill extends that provision for another census.
            The SPEAKER. The Constitution requires that enumeration in order to make the
              apportionment of Senators and Representatives.
            The bill failed on the final reading--yeas, 39; nays, 35--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Butterworth
                    Calkins of Porter, Defrees, Deputy, Friedley, Gallentine, Gordon of Boone,
                    Henderson, Hendry, Hill, Holland, Kennedy, King, Knight, Martin of Wayne, Martin
                    of Putnam, Minnick, Millikan, Myers, Netherton, Ray-Rhodes, Ruddell, Sabin,
                    Sayers, Snodgrass, Stephenson, St. John, Stone, Stricklaud, Washburn, Warrum,
                    Wilson, Wymer, Wood--39.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Britton, Browning, Barnaby, Copner, Cox,
                    Curtis, Devol, Donham, Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Cass, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley,
                    Hawley, Hynes, Login, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Miles, Mitchell,
                    Montgomery, Neff, Oatley, Rice Shutt, Stephens, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Walker,
                    Zenor and Mr. Speaker--35.
                
              
            
            Mr. MINICK, explaining, said he voted aye, not because he was in favor of the
              Fifteenth Amendment, or ever had been; but because he accepted the amendment as an
              irremediable fact.
            The SPEAKER, explaining, said: I vote No. I do it for the reason that, for the
              purpose of amending a law by changing only one word, there is no necessity for passing
              a law containing twenty-four pages.
            So the bill lies on the table for want of the constitutional majority of all the
              members elected.
          
          
            GAME LAW.
            Mr. Defrees' bill [H. R. 62] to amend and consolidate the several acts for the
              protection of birds, game and fish, was taken up in order on the third reading.
            Mr. RUDDELL said the section for the protection of ducks had been accidentally
              omitted. There should be in the bill a provision that ducks shall not be killed from
              the 15th of April to the 15th of December. This according to the wish of Mr. Defreee,
              the author of the bill; and he asked the unanimous consent of the House to have it
              incorporated in the bill.
            The bill was so amended by unanimous consent.

            

            Mr. GORDON, of Boone. I shall oppose the passage of this bill for one or two
              reasons--as it is too late now to amend it. Some of the provisions of the bill are
              good; and I would like to see a bill pass to which there would be no objection. I hold
              the right, that the owner or occupant of land has a right to all kinds of game on his
              premises. I shall vote against any bill that prohibits farmers and owners from killing
              game on their own premises at any time. So far as the provisions of the bill concern
              quails and pheasants, I am in favor of that. But because the provisions apply to the
              man that owns lands from taking game thereon, I shall oppose it. Some think that even
              quails are destructive to some crops, and I am one that would have the law provide
              that all such persons have the right to destroy them at all times, together with all
              other wild game on their own lands.
            Mr. RHODES indorsed the sentiments of the gentleman from Boone. While there are
              features commendable and right in the bill, it seems to me that the objection raised
              is a very good one. I know that in the section of the State where I reside, it is
              almost a necessity that every farmer should have the right, in order to protect their
              crops from destruction by wild game, such as prairie hens and ducks, that they should
              have the right to kill these birds on their own premises. This is a matter to which
              the attention of a good many have been called; and I know that many of the provisions
              embraced in this bill would be objectionable, and, for that reason, I shall vote
              against the bill. I had prepared an amendment designed to cover that objection; but
              the bill passed the second reading when I was not aware of it. If there could be any
              provision now inserted that would allow farmers to protect their growing crops I might
              be willing to vote for the bill; but as it is I cannot.
            Mr. OATLEY. Mr. Speaker, I can not permit that bill to go to vote without giving
              expression to some of my views on the subject embraced in its provisions. I admit,
              sir, that the time of this House is precious, and on this occasion, and on all other
              occasions that may arise where I may desire to be heard, I shall condense my remarks
              as much as possible, so as not to occupy any more time than is necessary.
            You are aware, Mr. Speaker, I presume, that I introduced a resolution here, asking
              the proper Committee to bring in a bill that would protect insect killing and song
              birds those small birds that destroy insects. I am decidedly in favor of the passage
              of a law by which these small birds, these insect killing and song birds shall be
              protected. I think it should be made a misdemeanor for anybody to kill these birds:
              and as far as this bill provides for the protection of game birds--while there are
              many things in it that are right and proper that I can endorse, there are many other
              things in it that I am decidedly opposed to. It is thought in the country that those
              farmers who own the property--those who own the land, have the right--and I presume
              that it is a well founded fact that they have the right to hunt or fish when and where
              they please on their own premises; and with this view of the matter, while there are
              many things I would like to vote for in that bill, I will have to cast my vote against
              it as it now stands.
            Mr. HAWLEY. Mr. Speaker I have but a word to say on this occasion. I must certainly
              differ from the opinion generally expressed here on this subject for the last few
              minutes. If it is found necessary to enact a law to protect game, that law must be
              universal ; that law must protect game as much against owners of land as against
              others, or else it will prove no protection to game. If a farmer has the right to hunt
              and seine and trap and net, he has the right to delegate that power to others, and
              what protection would such a law give to game? An amendment of that character would
              kill the bill to all intents and purposes, And besides, there is no property
              investment in game--it is of a migratory character. What is my game to-day may be
              another man's to-morrow; and so if you want to pass a law for the protection of game-a
              law protecting effectually must be universal in its provisions and applied to
              all--land owners as well as others. Not that I am a sportsman or advocating a sporting
              character at all, but I do say, that if it is thought necessary to protect the
              interests of the country, the law for that purpose must be made universal in its
              application. It must be applied to one man as well as to another, I shall vote for the
              bill.
            Mr. COX. Mr. Speaker: There are some provisions in this bill I would be glad to vote
              for. It starts off in the right direction, but goes entirely too far. I hold, sir,
              that if this bill becomes a law, and that law is carried out, it will enable us
              farmers to raise our partridges and quails finely, only to have them killed off by
              sportsmen who come in about the first of October and take them home or to market. I
              hold, sir, that when they are on my farm, destroying my property that I have a right
              and I shall kill them, law or no law. [Laughter.] I shall vote against the bill.
            Mr. MITCHELL. This bill, Mr. Speaker, embraces a matter of much interest to my
              constituents. Now, I am clearly of the opinion that to protect game efficiently it
              don't go at it right. You propose to prohibit persons from netting quails any time in
              the year, but you cannot protect them in that way from the hawks. I contend that hawks
              kill more partridges than all the shot guns and nets in the State, and if you want to
              protect partridges you must give a premium for hawk skulls. [Laughter.] That's what's
              the matter. [Renewed laughter.]
            A VOICE. "I will vote for a bill of that kind."
            Mr. MITCHELL. A good many persons don't know--have no idea of the damage one flock of
              partridges will do on a farm. I have known them to destroy a field of clover sown in
              the spring. One flock have destroyed at least a bushel of clover seed, which costs a
                 good deal of money, besides the labor in
              putting it in. I am like my friend, [Mr. Cox], I would shoot them or net them any time
              of the year I thought proper you might pass as many laws as you please and I would do
              it. I do insist that this bill is wrong in these particulars. We don't want to build
              up a system in this country like they have in England, where a man can't go on another
              man's farm and shoot a quail, while the man that owns a farm may shoot as much as he
              pleases. The mechanic in town may labor hard until Saturday evening, and if he wants
              to hunt he has to pull off his hat, place it under his arm and ask gracious
              permission.
            The SPEAKER (interrupting). On Sunday, do you mean? [Laughter.]
            Mr. MITCHELL, I said Saturday. Sir, I am opposed to this bill, and I do hope it will
              be voted down, and that we will get up a bill that will be a sensible bill, and one
              that will be right.
            Mr. NETHERTON. Mr. Speaker, inasmuch as this matter represents in some respects more
              particularly, perhaps, the people I represent, than in some other parts of the State,
              I ask the privilege of saying a few words. Now there are one or two features in this
              bill that are objectionable, as has been said by some gentlemen; but there are one or
              two other features that I hope will be considered by gentlemen of sufficient value to
              overbalance the others. I refer especially to the protection sought to be given in
              this bill to the fish interests of our State, or the privilege a man should have of
              fishing, and fishing in the way most do. In the north part of the State, and I presume
              gentlemen find it so in most places in the State, we have a kind of a wholesale
              fishing--that is, fishing on a large scale--by those who come in from other parts of
              the State. Those living near English Lake, in my county--perhaps many gentlemen here
              know where it is situated--are deprived of the privilege they should have by persons
              earning in at different seasons of the year, and carrying away large quantities of
              fish to Cincinnati and elsewhere. They take out of our lakes and our streams the fish
              that properly belong to the neighborhood, and in this way we are tolerating an abuse
              which demands legislative redress in some way,and without delay. This is one of the
              features in this bill that I think is commendable. While it does seem to present some
              objectionable provisions, I hope there is so much commendable about it that it will
              pass as it is. If, sir,there are corrections which should be made, let it be done
              afterward. For the present we need some measure of this character to protect fish and
              game, and the peoples' interest at home; and in their behalf I hope and trust this
              bill may pass and become a law of the State.
            Mr. BROWNING. I hope, sir, that this bill will not pass; and I have a different
              reason from that suggested by my friend over the way. I think, sir, this bill should
              not pass for the reason that I can not see anything in it but has a tendency to
              increase litigation. I am free to confess, sir, that I have never studied birdology
              enough to be able to distinguish between the various species of birds described in
              this bill. I would not know the names of one-half of them were I to see them. Another
              provision punishes with a fine of five dollars the robbing of a bird's nest. I do not
              know how we are to discriminate and know whether the bird's nest belongs to the
              particular species of bird or not; and I think when it has come to this pass that the
              Indiana Legislature has got to take up its time about a little boy robbing a bird's
              nest, we have got into small business. I am opposed to the bill, and will vote against
              it.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. I desire to inquire whether this bill excepts fishing in Lake
              Michigan--whether its provisions prohibit fishing in Lake Michigan?
            The SPEAKER. My recollection is that it does not.
            Mr. CALKINS. Does it except so much of Lake Michigan as lies on the northern boundary
              of the State?
            The SPEAKER. I don't think there is any exception.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. I ask unanimous consent to offer an amendment.
            VOICES. "You can't amend it now."
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. Then I move to recommit the bill with instructions to report
              an amendment excepting from is provisions Lake Michigan, or so much of it as is
              contained in the State of Indiana.
            Mr. COX. I would amend the amendment by adding Wabash river.
            The SPEAKER. I will state to the House that it requires unanimous consent to amend
              the bill at this stage. The only exceptions in the bill are the St. Joseph and the
              Ohio rivers.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. My motion is to recommit the bill with instructions to except
              from its provisions so much of Lake Michigan as is contained in this State.
            The SPEAKER. Perhaps that would be accepted by the author of the bill.
            Mr. DEFREES. I will accept the amendment.
            VOICES--"Question," "question."
            Mr. RUDDELL. Mr. Speaker, I would like to say one word with regard to the Ohio river.
              Indiana does not own the Ohio river. All the bill excepts is the St. Jo. and the Ohio
              river.
            A VOICE--"You must except the Wabash."
            The SPEAKER. As far as the Wabash river is concerned, I will say that they always do
              the fishing on the other side, where I live. [Laughter]
            Mr. COX. I would add the Wabash canal, but my modesty forbids. [Renewed
              laughter.]
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH. I second the amendment of the gentleman from Porter.
            A VOICE--"I believe the author has accepted the amendment."
            Mr. RUDDELL. I understand there is no objection to the amendment.
            Mr. BRITTON. Mr. Speaker, I object, on the ground that the gentleman can not decide
              how far the State of Indiana goes into  Lake
              Michigan. Unless he puts bounds to it, I object.
            Mr. COX. I shall object unless you accept my proposition to except Wabash river.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam. I would like to have excepted Musquito river, in Putnam
              county. [Laughter.]
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. My amendment has been accepted. If the gentleman [Mr. Martin]
              can prevail on the author of the bill to accept his amendment, I have nothing to do
              with it.
            Mr. COPNER. Mr. Speaker, I trust this bill will be recommitted. I am not prepared to
              vote one way or the other at this time. I have been spoken to with regard to it by
              some of my constituents. I can only say now that I am not prepared to vote on it, and
              trust it will go back to the committee. I want the Wabash river included.
            The SPEAKER. I understand the gentleman from Elkhart [Mr. Defrees] has accepted the
              amendment of the gentleman from Porter [Mr. Calkins], therefore the bill is still open
              for debate or ready to be put upon its passage.
            Mr. DEFREES. Mr. Speaker: This is a small bill, yet it seems to have created a great
              deal of confusion here. This bill certainly gives ample time to hunt and fish in. It
              seems to me there can be disadvantage accrue to any body in the passage of a law of
              this character. It might be well to except in the bill the streams that form a
              dividing line between the States; but when it is proposed to except the Wabash
              river--the upper Wabash particularly--you might as well except any stream in the
              State. You would thereby destroy the effect of the bill, and by it offer no protection
              at all. The gentleman from Porter [Mr. Calkins] proposes to except Lake Michigan, so
              far as it lies on the border of the State; that is well enough, and if gentlemen's
              will include all the streams that run along the line of the State, I would have no
              objection to such an amendment. But it does seem to me the bill is as near right as it
              can be made if we protect fish and game at all. I hope the bill will pass and these
              objections that are raised will have no weight.
            Mr. COX. Will the gentleman permit me to ask him a question ?
            Mr. DEFREES. Certainly.
            Mr. COX. Suppose I, a farmer, am plowing along, and there is a bird's-nest in a large
              bunch of weeds, and I turn them over, am I guilty of a misdemeanor ?
            Mr. DEFREES. If you rob that nest intentionally you are.
            Mr. COX. Now I will go a little farther. Suppose I am breaking up a clover sod, and
              amongst it I find a nest, and I turn it over with the plow, then what?
            Mr. DEFREES. You have committed two misdemeanors. [Laughter].
            Mr. COX. Two misdemeanors! [Renewed laughter.] Then I shall have to vote against it.
              [Continued merriment.]
            Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, my understanding of this bill is that it prohibits seining
              and trap fishing during the entire year.
            The SPEAKER. That is my understanding.
            The SPEAKER. That is my understanding.
            Mr. RUDDELL. It does prohibit trapping and seining at all times.
            Mr. BIGGS. That being the case, I desire to have Crystal Lakes, in Kosciusko county,
              exempted. I cannot see why we should be prohibited from seining fish at some portions
              of the year. There may be times in the years I should be satisfied to have it
              prohibited, but with that sweeping provision I shall be compelled to vote against the
              bill. It puts us in a situation where we cannot have the pleasure of catching the fish
              in the way I desire. I will take my chances in turning over bird's nests.
            Mr. COX. All lawyers will, no doubt, [Laughter.]
            Mr. BIGGS. I would inquire if the motion of the gentleman from Porter (Mr. Calkins)
              to recommit, is avoided by the acceptance of his amendment.
            The SPEAKER. Yes, sir.
            Mr. BIGGS. Then I will make the same motion--that the bill be referred back to the
              Committee with instructions to change that part of the bill that prohibits seining or
              trapping during the entire year.
            Mr. DEFREES. Seining is of the greatest importance to be kept in the bill. In those
              lakes the gentleman speaks of they generally take fish by spearing with fire at night,
              and not by seining.
            Mr. DONHAM. Mr. Speaker: I don't want to vote for that bill, or I will be fined every
              day in the week. [Mr. D.'s remarks were inaudible at this Reporter's desk. He was
              understood to say that he was in the habit of paying boys one dollar a day to destroy
              bobolinks and their nests.]
            Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I am opposed to this bill in every particular. The gentleman
              (Mr. Biggs) speaks about his lake in the northern part of the State, and about other
              parties coming there to fish. Sir, you are well aware that we have a reservoir in Clay
              county, and people from a distance have been in the habit of coming there in all
              seasons of the year to fish, and I have heard of no citizen ever taking exceptions to
              it. And another grand reason why I am opposed to this bill is that in case it should
              pass it will not be regarded. These kind of law never have been regarded by the people
              in all seasons of the year, and for these reasons I shall oppose the bill.
            VOICES--"Question." "Question."
            Mr. ATHERTON. Mr. Speaker, I shall say what I desire to say before I leave the
              floor--demanding the privilege every Representative has of expressing his views in
              regard to any measure brought before the Houze. I shall regret it, Mr. Speaker, if
              this bill is again recommitted. It does seem to me that what amendments may be
              necessary to the bill can now be suggested and adopted by general consent of the
              House, if they are good and beneficial. If it must go to a committee, and final action
              be delayed, I hope kind friends in that committee will hasten its return. I wish to
              answer an objection made by the gentleman from Clay (Mr.  Walker) with regard to what I said before in speaking of
              the objections the people had to these wholesale fishing in the lakes in the northern
              part of the State. The gentleman is more liberal than I, and more liberal than the
              people I represent, in bidding welcome to those who come from Cincinnati, from Ohio,
              Kentucky, and may be from other States, to engage in the wholesale destruction of
              fish. I am bound to say on this floor the people living around the Lakes in the county
              where I live have no such liberality. They regard it as injustice. Every one knows in
              how short a time seining can destroy fishes in any lake. The gentleman from Clay says
              the law if enacted won't be obeyed. Is that an argument? Shall we say we will not
              enact a law for fear it will not be obeyed? I trust the gentleman who represents the
              intelligent constituency of the county of Clay will not oppose such an objection to
              this bill. I hope not sir. Therefore there being no practical objection urged against
              the bill except the proposition of a few amendments which may be accepted, I ask that
              it be brought to a vote now.
            VOICES--"Question," question."
            Mr. RUDDELL. Mr. Speaker. In regard to the recommitment of the bill, in behalf of the
              committee I want to say a few words. I was on the committee before which was a, number
              of other similar bills and a good many amendments to this one. We considered all of
              them very carefully, there being a full representation on the committee, and a goodly
              number of gentlemen from different parts of the State who are interested in the
              passage of some kind of a bill for the protection of our game and fish. There can be
              no question but there is a demand by the people, and all the people throughout the
              State, for some kind of protection of fish and game, and the only question before us
              is, what kind of protection do they need? As to that there was a diversity of opinion.
              As to the seining of fish we had ample illustration of the effects of that in White
              river for the last two years. At the time of the expiration of the law prohibiting
              seining, two years ago, our streams were well supplied with fish. Men from the city,
              who enjoyed sporting a little, and fishing a little, would go out and enjoy
              themselves--those fishing would be well rewarded for the time spent. Farmers along the
              river spending half a day from labor, when they could rest from their work, they would
              walk down to the river and catch a good mess. All enjoyed the sport, and felt that the
              provision preventing seining had been a wise one. Unfortunately the last Legislature
              failed to re-enact the law and it expired by limitation. Within two months after the
              expiration of that law our river was absolutely cleaned of all valuable fishmen would
              go and fish anywhere all day long and not catch half a dozen longer than your hand. So
              it is now, we have no fish amounting to anything. One gentleman objected to trapping.
              Why, we had presented before the Committee an instance where 5,500 pounds of fish were
              taken out of one trap.
            Mr MITCHELL. (Interposing), 4,000 in one night were taken out of Eel river.
            Mr. RUDDELL. Four thousand in one night was taken out of Eel river. That is wholesale
              destruction for the benefit of a few, who for profit make it a business to market fish
              at the expense of the great mass of the citizens. We want to avoid that. Therefore the
              committee thought it wise to prohibit forever seining and trapping. Those who enjoy
              the use of the hook and spear are not interdicted.
            With regard to the protection of game, birds, quails, &c., there was a diversity
              of opinion. Some held that farmers owning land should be allowed to hunt on their own
              premises. Of course different opinions were presented, as have been done on the floor
              here to-day. Birds are not domestic. To some extent they are migratory. They
              congregate in great numbers sometimes in a little scope of country. Some men might
              have the privilege, as was said, of taking large numbers. Dozens had been taken by one
              man and sent off to market. We have got to prevent that. It occurred to the committee
              that the only way was to make the bill universal and let it apply to the landowner and
              everybody else. We allow the owner of the land to trap during the hunting season,
              while everybody else is allowed to use their guns.
            The SPEAKER (Mr. Neff in the Chair). What is the objection to a farmer catching
              quails raised on his own farm in a net?
            Mr. RUDDELL. Because it is more destructive.
            The SPEAKER. Why not compel them to use rifles instead of shot-guns, or even stones
              ?
            Mr. RUDDELL. I suppose there is a limit to everything, and there are reasonable
              bounds beyond which we should not go.
            The SPEAKER. Suppose you make it a misdemeanor to go on to lands without the consent
              of the owner.
            Mr. RUDDELL. I will consent to that. There is a bill now pending in the Senate
              requiring men to go to the landlord and gain permission and I will consent to that
              measure heartily. Then, the law universally protecting game, we can have an abundance
              of game in this country. I hope this bill will not be, recommitted.
            Mr. KENNEDY. I think it best not to hurry this thing now. I question if this law of
              the Senate is not the best, and I think we had better recommit this bill to committee
              and order it to stay there a while. [Laughter.] Let us not have so many bills. The
              great difficulty is, we fill up our statute books with new laws, and have to hunt them
              over to see if there is not another to kill that one. [Laughter.]
            A VOICE. Would it not be just as well to vote this one down?
            The motion to recommit was agreed to.
          
          
            DRAINAGE.
            Mr. Caldwell's bill [H. R. 22] for an act to amend an act to enable the owners of wet
                 lands to drain and reclaim them, when the same
              can be done without affecting the rights of other land owners, by amending the title
              thereof, and sections 1, 3,4, 6, 9, 11, 12 the title to be amended so as to read, "An
              act to enable and encourage the owers of wet lands and marshes to drain and reclaim
              them, when the same can be done without affecting the rights of others, and defining
              the duties of county officers in relation thereto, and repealing all acts in conflict
              with the provisions of this act," coming up on the second reading thereof
            Mr. McDOWELL moved to lay the bill on the table, and that it be printed.
            Mr. BUTTER WORTH said he considered it a very good bill, and very desirable in many
              portions of the State.
            Mr. McDOWELL then modified his motion so as to make it, that it be referred to the
              standing committee on Drains and Sewers.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, hoped the gentleman would insist on the motion to print. He
              wanted the bill to be farely and fully considered. There was a disagreement on the
              bill in our committee as to but one clause, and the majority voted that it be referred
              back with a recommendation that it be put upon its passage. This bill simply enlarges
              the rights of persons seeking to have their lands drained. The original bill or act
              which it sought to amend was hastily drawn and put through under the pressure of other
              business. This simply extends the remedy to all persons desirous of having their lands
              drained. It has respect to the law of 1867--not to that of 1869. There are only two
              important changes which it proposes to the present law. And one is in reference to the
              assessments, and the notice that shall be given to non-residents, and it provides for
              a more perfect notice. It also provides in case any land has been omitted in the
              original schedule, if it is to be benefitted it may still be assessed and appraised.
              Under the old law if any such land was omitted in the schedule first filed there was
              no way provided by which that land could be assessed. There was another provision
              which we were not able, by vote, to agree upon in the committee room, and that is in
              the last section of the bill. There is no provision in the old law by which a ditch
              may be dug by another person--a latteral ditch which may flow into the original ditch.
              This bill provides that such ditches may be dug; and if they make an overflow of
              water, so that it requires that the original ditch shall be cut wider, then the person
              so overflowing the ditch shall make this improvement. It provides also that parties
              making such ditches shall make their own improvements. It is simply such an
              enlargement of the rights of those who seek to have their lands drained. I am in favor
              of the original motion--the motion first made by the gentleman from Wells (Mr.
              McDowell) that it be printed. I am opposed to hasty legislation. This question of
              drainage is a very grave question in our part of the State, and there is, perhaps, no
              State in the West that has so large a portion of swamp lands as the State of Indiana.
              This bill is for a law in the interest of persons who desire to drain their lands, so
              ask enable them to call to their aid other persons that will be benefitted by such
              drainage. It is not with reference to the act of 1869, which I regard as a very
              dangerous law. But it calls in the taxing power to compel others to bear their share
              of the expense. Now I ask the gentleman to change his motion so that the bill may be
              printed.
            Mr. ST. JOHN inquired if the original assessment covered the whole amount?
            Mr. CALKINS. This amendment provides that the parties shall only pay prerata. This is
              a very important amendment.
            Mr. GORDON of Boone. Inasmuch as there has been a committee appointed, I am decidedly
              in favor of the motion that the bill be referred to that committee. But I understand
              that there is some objection to the bill; that it should be so amended as to require
              the owners of land through which the ditch may run, to severally keep their parts
              clear from obstructions. There is no law now to compel them to remove then
              obstructions. Neither is there any law at present which requires the owners of
              collateral ditches to remove obstructions.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. Yes; in this bill it is provided where such ditches have been
              dug that every person shall keep the ditch unobstructed across the land he owns.
            Mr. GORDON. Well, I hope the bill will be perfected--and for that purpose that it
              will be referred to the Committee on Drains and Sewers.
            Mr. CALKINS. I can not coincide with the gentleman in that; because I have carefully
              compared this bill with the law of 1867, and I can't see that any verbiage will make
              the bill more perfect than it now is. If the gentlemen can suggest amendments,however,
              let him write them out and I shall have no objection for the whole subject to go to
              the Committee. But certainly there can be no objection to having the bill printed; and
              perhaps the printing may suggest important amendments. But when it shall be considered
              and read by the members of the House, and it shall be found that there is no needful
              amendment, I shall be in favor of putting it on its passage at once.
            Mr. McGOWAN inquired whether this bill provides a penalty upon parties who obstruct
              these ditches--upon parties who do not own bonds.
            Mr. CALKINS. I believe there is no such provision. It requires that where the ditch
              has been made, the party owning the land shall keep it unobstructed, and I believe it
              applies to ditches already made; but I can't say certainly as to that point.
            Mr. MINICK. In regard to the amendment spoken of, I think there is a difficulty about
              requiring persons to keep the ditch open through whose land it runs, because these
              ditches will sometimes run through lands that will be damaged instead of benefitted. I
              know a case of this kind under the old law. Therefore I do not think this  provision to keep the ditch open should be inserted.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone. His objection was not that parties owning the land should keep
              the ditch open, but the accumulations from collateral ditches, the parties owning them
              should be required to keep these clear.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH was decidedly in favor of the passage of the bill. It has one feature
              in it which has not been alluded to by the gentleman from Porter. If a man undertakes
              to run a ditch through his neighbor's land, under the old law he must himself be at
              all the expense of it. One very good provision in this bill is that you begin at the
              lower end of the ditch, and every man who is benefitted can be assessed; and I also
              good feature which provides that the assessments may be collected as fast as the work
              is done. I think the bill altogether is most perfect, and a very important bill.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. It is certainly very important to those who live in the
              valley of the Kankakee. There are, perhaps, already 2,000,000 of acres of land that
              have been condemned by a corporation under the existing law exercising the power of
              taxation. As to the constitutionality of that law, since the Supreme Court has passed
              upon it, I have nothing to say. I am decidedly in favor of a law to encourage private
              ditching, so that an individual interested in ditching his land may do so, and
              incidentally his neighbor shall not be in his way. But I am opposed to that law which
              authorizes a ditching corporation that may compel a man to become a member of it. I
              consider that this bill will be amply sufficient in its provisions to complete the
              drainage of the Valley of the Kankakee, which would be a work that would drain two
              millions of acres, and straighten a channel said to be 248 miles in length so as to
              make it but 71 miles. My idea is that this bill will enable them to commence and
              complete that work. Therefore I am the more interested in it. I want a good wholesome
              law; not one that will swallow up all the owners of small parcels of land into a great
              corporation. And the motion which I insist upon would not prevent the amendment
              suggested by the gentleman from Greene (Mr. Minick). It is conceded that the
              Legislature is to be judge of the hardships suggested, and it provides the remedy in
              the nature of damages to be paid before the ditch is made. This, it is presumed, is a
              complete remedy.
            Mr. WASHBURN hoped the bill would be printed.
            Mr. GORDON, of Cass, saw the injustice in the bill suggested by the gentleman from
              Greene (Mr. Minick) which it might work to the injury of improved farms, and hoped
              that it might be printed and considered with reference to that.
            Mr. NETHERTON considered there was so much desirable in the bill that it might be
              perfected. The main point to be looked at was the provision which requires the person
              digging a counter ditch to be responsible for keeping it open. And when we look at the
              fact and consider how badly some such law is needed, we certainly can overcome this
              objection. While he was generally opposed to printing bills, because of the
              expensiveness, he was distinctly in favor of printing this.
            Mr. McDONALD desired the bill to go back to the committee and be perfected in regard
              to the provision for tributary ditches. He was in agreement with the gentleman from
              Porter. It was his kind of a ditch law, and perhaps of more general interest than any
              other bill to come before this body. He hoped the House would go slowly with it.
            The motion to lay the bill on the table and print two hundred copies was agreed
              to.
          
          
            CORONERS.
            Mr. Zenor's bill [H. R. 88] authorizing coroners in certain cases to appoint special
              constables, to define their duties, and require coroners to file papers of inquest in
              the county clerk's office, was read the second time and ordered to the engrossment and
              third reading.
          
          
            ATTACHMENTS.
            Mr. RUDDELL'S bill [H. R. 90] to amend section 73, article 9, in regard to
              attachments, was read the second time.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, said he was not in favor of extending the power in these
              attachment cases; and on his motion the bill was referred to the Committee on
                the Judiciary.
          
          
            CHANGE OF VENUE.
            Mr. BIGGS' bill [H. R. 93] to amend section 209, chapter 1, article II., of the civil
              practice act of June 18, 1852, was read the second time.
            On motion of Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, it was referred to the Judiciary
                Committee.
          
          
            RECORD EVIDENCE.
            Mr. Ballenger's bill [H. R. 115] repealing the act to repeal section 31 of the act
              concerning real property and the alienation thereof, approved May 4,1869--coming up on
              the second reading
            Mr. BALLENGER said: It was suprising that this section 31, which gives the right to
              introduce the record of deeds and mortgage as evidence should have been swept away so
              uncermoniously by the last General Assembly. He was informed that the gentleman who
              succeeded in getting the bill through two years ago designed by its enactment to
              affect a suit then pending.
            Mr. BIGGS moved the reference of the bill to the Judiciary Committee. If the
              gentleman from Wayne (Mr. Ballenger) had referred to him, he was mistaken in the man.
              I was not here two years ago. But as he seems to have some knowledge of that law and
              its application in some localities, I do not want to see it repealed at once.
              Therefore I make the motion for reference. I would say for the information of the
              gentleman, that the law suits referred too are still pending.
            The bill was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
          

          

          
            SOLDIERS AND SEAMEN.
            On motion of Mr. McDONALD, the Senate joint resolution No. 4 for a memorial through
              our Senators and Representatives in Congress for the passage of a law that every
              soldier or seaman who has served ninety days in the war of the rebellion and was
              honorably discharged, may be entiled to 160 acres of land without being compelled to
              occupy the same, was taken up and passed the House of Representatives--yeas, 73; nays,
              2.
          
          
            REPORTING.
            Mr. WILSON offered a resolution, which was referred to the Committee on
                Printing, instructing that committee to inquire intothe best means of
              procuring reports of the proceedings of this House, etc.
            The House then, at 4:40 o'clock, adjourned.
            CORRECTION.--In these proceedings of the 20th, Mr. MAJOR'S bill,
              [H. R. 143], to provide temporarily for the poor, and the duty of Township Trustees in
              connection therewith, was erroneously ascribed to Mr. Myers.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Wayne, introduced a bill, [H. R. 154], to amend section 2 of an act
              providing for the election or appointment of Supervisors, and prescribing their
              duties- was omitted in the place.
            Mr. CALKINS', of Porter, amendment, which was adopted, excluded from the subscription
              of the House all weekly papers.
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            TUESDAY, January 24, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A. M., the Lieutenant Governor in the Chair.
          Chaplain service was conducted by Rev. R. D. ROBINSON, Presiding Elder of the M. E.
            Church of this Conference District.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR stated that the Secretary's minutes of Friday's proceedings
            were not read yesterday, and thereupon inquired if it was the pleasure of the Senate
            that they should be read now.
          A number of Senators responding, "Read! read!"--
          The Secretary proceeded with the reading of his minutes of Friday's proceedings, and
            they were corrected and approved.
          
            STATIONERY AND STAMPS.
            Mr. HADLEY moved to reconsider the vote of Friday by which a resolution was adopted
              giving $40 worth of stationery to the Doorkeeper and the chairman of each committee,
              for he said the effect would be to give to the majority an undue advantage in this
              matter of stationery; and would give to some four or five members some $60 or $70
              worth.
            Mr. DENBO seconded the motion, and hoped the vote would be reconsidered, for the
              amount is too large.
            Mr. BRADLEY objected to the charge that some members would get $60 or $70 worth.
            Mr. HADLEY was of the opinion that the amount would be drawn--it usually is in such
              cases.
            Mr. BRADLEY averred that he would take none home with him.
            Mr. HUGHES regarded the allowance as not to the chairman personally,but for the use
              of the committee of which he may be chairman. He was not willing to assume that all
              the stationery would be drawn by the chairman, whether needed or not by the committee.
              The charge that a large number of the majority would get some $60 would seem to
              indicate that the minority here were not fairly represented as first named on the
              standing committees, and on that point he would state from information that the first
              cast made of committees gave to the minority here a fair representation of the
              chairmanships, but they insisted on Mr. Burson being put on the committees, and
              because they could not dictate in that matter they declined to serve as chairmen.
            Mr. SCOTT interposed to say that the Senator was stating something which he had no
              knowledge of.
            Mr. HUGHES reiterated the assertion that he was speaking from information. His
              information was that several Republican Senators had been assigned to chairmanships of
              standing committees on the first draft; when he saw the list of committees, and saw
              that these gentlemen were not at the head of the committees, he inquired how it
              happened, and was told that they declined on the ground that they could not force Mr.
              Burson on the committees. Does the gentlemen dispute the facts ?
            Mr. SCOTT. As far as he was individually concerned he did most positively.
            The motion to reconsider was agreed to by yeas, 40; nays, 0.
            Mr. DENBO moved to amend by striking out twenty dollars and inserting five dollars,
              or so much thereof as may be necessary.
            Mr. BROWN made an ineffectual motion to lay the resolution on the table.
            Mr. BRADLEY moved to amend the amendment by striking out "five" and inserting in lieu
              "ten" dollars.
            Mr. BROWN explained that he introduced the resolution at the suggestion of others,
              and for the benefit of the doorkeeper. And he was of the opinion that no Chairman
              would draw more stationery than was needed for the use of his Committee, &c.
            Mr. BRADLEY withdrew his amendment in favor of
            Mr. BROWN, who moved to amend, at Mr. Hughes suggestion, by a substitute providing
              for ten dollars worth of stationery for each Committee, to be drawn by the Chairman
              thereof, and ten dollars worth for the doorkeeper, and two dollars and fifty cents
              worth of stamps for each, and that no stationery or stamps not already drawn by
              Senators shall be drawn or furnished.
            Mr. STEELE moved to refer this matter to a select committee of three to examine and
              report the amount each Committee should have.
            At Mr. Brown's suggestion--
            Mr. STEELE withdrew his motion to refer.
            Mr. JOHNSTON thought this streak of economy comes with a bad grace from the other
              side of the House, which had been in  the habit
              of voting from $40 to $100 worth of stationery to each member in years gone by.
            Mr. GRAY hoped the substitute would be voted down and the amendment adopted.
            Mr. LASALLE raised the point of order that the latter clause of the substitute was
              out of order.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR sustained this point of order.
            On motion of Mr. JOHNSTON, the whole matter was laid on the table by yeas 22, nays
              20.
          
          
            SATURDAY'S MINUTES.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR then directed the reading of the Secretary's journal of Saturday,
              and it was accordingly read and approved by unanimous consent.
          
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. MARTINDALE presented memorials from legal voters of Marion county praying for the
              enactment of a prohibitory liquor law.
            Mr. GRAY, Mr. HUGHES and Mr. GLESSNER presented memorials on the same subject from
              ladies and gentlemen.
            Mr. JOHNSTON presented a petition from attorneys in Montgomery county praying an
              increase of judicial officers.
            Mr. GRAY presented a petition from Randolph county praying for a law to prevent
              cruelty to animals.
            Mr. CASE presented a petition praying for an amendment to the Divorce laws so as to
              prevent corruption and fraud in this respect, signed exclusively by practicing
              attorneys.
            Mr. DWIGGINS and Mr. MARTINDALE and Mr. DOUGHERTY presented claims which were not
              read.
            Mr. MORGAN presented a memorial which was referred to the Committee on
                Emigration without reading.
            These petitions were severally referred to appropriate committees.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            The Judiciary Committee, by the hands of Mr. HUGHES, its chairman,
              and Messrs. GLESSNER, CAVIN and HOOPER returned to the Senate Mr. Martindale's
              exemption bill S. 38; and his felony bill S. 21; Mr. Bobo's bill S. 29 for the holding
              and transfer of property by Roman Catholic Churches, cemeteries and socioties; Mr.
              Wood's interest on money bill S 9; and Mr. Steele's change of venue bill S. 35, with
              reports thereon recommending the passage thereof.
            These reports severally go to the files for action when the bills come up for
              consideration on the second reading.
            The same committee returned Mr. Beardsley's interests on judgment and claims bill [S.
              13] with a recommendation that it lie on the table as superceded by the bill S. 9.This
              report was concurred in.
            Mr. JOHNSTON, from the Committee on Agriculture, returned his bill
              [S. 11] with a favorable report thereon, which goes to the files.
            Mr. GLESSNER, from the special commit-thereon,returned his Twenty-eighth Judicial
              Circuit Court bill with an amendment, giving more time to Bartholomew county.
            The report awaits the second reading.
          
          
            THE SOLDIERS' HOME.
            Mr. DITTEMORE offered the following:
            
              
                
                  WHEREAS, It appears from the aunual report of the Trustees and other officers
                    of the Soldiers' and Orphans' Home at Knightstown, Ind , that the expenditures
                    for the same for the year 1870, for various items purchased, are unreasonable
                    and extravagant therefore
                  Resolved, That the Military Committee of the Senate be, and
                    they are hereby instructed to proceed at once to investigate the several items
                    of expenditure, and report without delay, and that said committee be empowered
                    to send for persons and papers.
                
              
            
            The resolution was adopted.
          
          
            IMMIGRATION.
            Mr. SARNINGHAUSEN submitted the following resolution, which was adopted:
            
              
                
                  Resolved. That His Excellency, Governor Baker be and is
                    hereby requested to lay before the Senate a copy of all reports, resolutions,
                    and other transactions in regard to the Immigration Convention held at
                    Indianapolis in the month of November last year.
                
              
            
          
          
            ANOTHER PAGE.
            Mr. LASALLE submitted a resolution authorizing the Doorkeeper to appoint an
              additional page for the floor of the Senate.
            He explained that it was for the benefit of a sprightly orphan who served last
              session, whose father died in the service, and who has been serving gratuitously so
              far, expecting this action on the part of the Senate. Then there has been usually a
              larger number of pages than are employed this session. He declared himself a thorough
              reformer--decidedly in favor of retrenchment, but he made this an appeal to the
              generosity of Senators. It would prove a saving of more time than the salary would
              amount to.
            The resolution was adopted upon a division. Affirmative, 29; negative, not
              counted.
          
          
            TEA, COFFEE, SUGAR AND SALT.
            Mr. GRAY offered a concurrent resolution which was adopted, viz:
            
              
                
                  Be it Resolved by the Senate of the State of Indiana, the House of
                      Representatives concurring, That our Senators and Representatives in
                    Congress are hereby requested to vote and use their influence to have the tariff
                    act so modified as to place the prime articles of necessity, including tea,
                    coffee, sugar and salt, on the free list.
                  Resolved, That the Governor is hereby requested to forward a
                    copy of these resolutions to each of our Senators and Representatives in
                    Congress.
                
              
            
            Mr. HUGHES thought the policy by which sugar is sought to be included in the
              legislation proposed would affect the production of that staple in the United States.
              He had not time to look into it, but his impression was that this part of the
              resolution was wrong. He moved a reconsideration of the vote adopting this
              resolution.
            Mr. GRAY avered that he had copied this resolution verbatim from the last platform of
              the Democratic party.
            The motion to reconsider was rejected by yeas 18, nays 21.
          
          
            STATIONERY.
            Mr. HADLEY submitted a resolution instructing the Doorkeeper to furnish the Chairman
              of each Committee the amount of  stationery that
              may be necessary for the use of the Committee.
            Mr. LASELLE raised a point of order that such a resolution was on the table and
              consequently out of order.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR sustained the point of order and ruled out the
              resolution.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The following described bills were introduced, read the first time and severally
              passed to the second reading:
            By Mr. DITTEMORE, a bill, [S. 104], to provide for the election of trustees for the
              benevolent institutions of the State, to prescribe some of the duties thereof, etc.
              [Four to be elected this session and two at each subsequent biennial session.]
            By Mr. FRANCISCO, a bill, [S. 105,] to abolish the 29th Judicial Circuit--Jefferson
              Criminal Court--and to transfer its business to the Circuit Court of Jefferson
              county.
            By Mr. TAYLOR, a bill, [S. 106,] to repeal the act authorizing aid to railroads by
              counties and townships taking stock in and making donations to railroads, approved May
              11, 1869, and declaring an emergency.
            By Mr. SCOTT, a bill, [S. 107,] to amend an act creating the State Normal School,
              approved December 25, 1855, amending sections 4, 5, 11 and 15; appropriating $6000 for
              the year 1871,and $5,500 annually thereafter-$500 to be used for library purposes;
              prescribing textbooks, etc., etc.
            By MORGAN, a bill [8. 108] to define bribery, and to define punishment therefor, and
              repealing all conflicting laws.
            By Mr. WOOD, a bill [S. 109] supplementary to an act concerning endorsers, partition
              fences, etc., approved June 4, 1852.
            By. Mr. SARNINGHAUSEN, a bill [S. 110] to amend section 58 of an act repealing all
              general laws now in force for the incorporation of cities; providing for the
              incorporation of cities, etc., approved March 4, 1857.
            And then came a recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at 2 o'clock P. M., and the Senate pursued
              the order pending at the time of the recess, viz: the introduction of bills.
            By Mr. HADLEY, a bill [S. 111] to provide for a more extended and improved system of
              college and university education in this State making the State University, the Purdue
              University and the Normal School co-ordinate departments of the Indiana
              University.
            Mr. HADLEY said, this bill has been care fully prepared by the State Board of
              Education, and has the approval of the incoming Superintendent of Public Instruction.
              He moved that 200 copies be printed.
            The motion was agreed to.
            By Mr. FULLER, a bill [S. 112] to provide for the election of a Supervisor and Board
              of Commissions for the Benevolent Institutions of the State, describing some of their
              duties, etc. [It provides for the election of a Supervisor and four Commissioners at
              the present session and two Commissioners at each biennial session hereafter, by a
              joint ballot of the two Houses of the General Assembly.]
            By Mr. TAYLOR, a bill [S. 113] authorizing suits to be brought in the partnership
              name only in certain cases, etc.
            By Mr. BRADLEY, a bill [S. 114] to provide for the acquisition and enjoyment by the
              United States of lands in this State for certain purposes.
            By Mr. WILLIAMS, a bill [S. 115], to distribute the surplus swampland fund now in the
              Treasury to the counties from which it was collected.
            By Mr. WILLIAMS, a bill [S. 116], to authorize the Auditor and Secretary of State to
              organize the two Houses of the State of Indiana.
            By Mr. SARNINGHAUSEN, a bill [S. 117], to authorize and empower cities now
              incorporated under the general city incorporation act of March 14, 1867, to sell and
              convey real estate, prescribing the manner and declaring an emergency.
            By Mr. DOUGHERTY, a bill [S. 118], to amend section 17 of an act of June 17, 1852,
              for the organization of County Boards, etc.
            By Mr. GLESSNER a bill [S. 119] supplemental to the act for the assessment of land
              for plank, macadamized and gravel road purposes, &c., of March 11th. 1867,
              approved May 14th, 1869, and repealing so much of said act as effects companies now
              organized.
            By Mr. COLLETT, a bill [S. 120] for the relief of the Treasurer of Vermillion county
              and his sureties. [For the relief of Samuel B. Davis and his sureties from a judgment
              of over $20,000. which sum of money was lost by a robbery of the County Treasury.]
            By Mr. CARNAHAN, a bill [S. 121] to amend sections 7 and 49 of an act providing for
              the settlement of decedents estates, etc., approved June 17th, 1852.
            By Mr. ARMSTRONG, a bill [S. 122], to repeal the act limiting the number of grand
              jurors, and prescribing their duties, approved March 4, '52, and repealing section 14
              to 18 of the general practice act, approved June 17, 1852. [It proposes to abolish
              grand juries.]
            By Mr. CAVE, a bill, [S. 123], to amend section 3 of the act regulating docket fees
              of District attorneys, &c., &c., and regulating fees on forfeited
              recognizances, passed June 4, 1861.
            Pending the introduction of bills--

            
              ALLEN COUNTY CONTEST.
              Mr. BOBO asked and obtained leave to move that fifty copies of the report of the
                  Committee on Elections and the evidence in the case of Bird vs.
                Saringhausen be printed for the use of the Senate.
              The motion was agreed to.
            
            
              THE XVth AMENDMENT.
              Mr. HUGHES asked and obtained leave to submit the following joint resolution, [S.
                7]:
              
                
                  
                    Joint Resolution concerning the so-called Fifteenth Amendment to the
                      Constitution of the United States, and its pretended ratification, and
                      proposing a Convention of the States.

                    

                    WHEREAS, It is provided by the fifth section of the fourth
                      article of the Constitution of Indiana that the number of Senators and
                      Representatives shall be apportioned among the several counties according to
                      the number of white male inhabitants above twenty-one years of age in
                      each:
                    AND WHEREAS, By section two of the
                      second article of said Constitution the elective franchise is conferred upon,
                      and limited to "white male citizens of the United States of the age of
                      twenty-one years and upwards who shall have resided in the State six months
                      preceding the election," and "white males of foreign birth, of the age of
                      twenty-one years and upwards, who shall have resided in the United States one
                      year, and in this State six months immediately preceding the election, and
                      shall have declared their intention to become citizens of the United
                      States."
                    AND WHEREAS, It is provided by the
                      fifth section, of said article two, of said constitution, that "no negro or
                      mulatto shall have the right of suffrage."
                    AND WHEREAS, At the recent general
                      election in this State, in the year 1870, large numbers of negroes and
                      mulattoes amounting to seven thousand or more, voted for State and county
                      officers, members of the State Legislature and members of Congress, under and
                      by authority of the so-called Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
                      United States;
                    AND WHEREAS, The said pretended
                      Fifteenth Amendment was never legally ratified or assented to by the State of
                      Indiana, not having been at any time submitted to a convention of the people,
                      but only to the State Legislature, wherein the said Fifteenth Amendment was
                      only voted on in the Senate by twenty-eight Senators, viz: 27 in the
                      affirmative and one in the negative being less than a quorum under the
                      Constitution; and voted on in the House of Representatives by fifty-seven
                      representatives, viz; Fifty-four in the affirmative and three in the negative,
                      being less than a quorum under the Constitution of the State.
                    And, whereas, by the sixth section of the act of Congress, approved April
                      10th, 1869, entitled "An Act authorizing the submission of the Constitutions
                      of Virginia, Mississippi, and Texas to a vote of the people, and authorizing
                      the election of State officers provided by the said Constitutions, and members
                      of Congress," it is provided and required:
                    That before the States of Virginia, Mississippi and Texas shall be admitted
                      to representation in Congress, their several Legislatures, which may be
                      hereafter lawfully organized, shall ratify the fifteenth article which has
                      been proposed by Congress to the several States as an amendment to the
                      Constitution of the United States." And
                    WHEREAS, By the eighth section of the act of Congress,
                      approved December 22,1869, entitled "an act to promote the reconstruction of
                      the State of Georgia," it is provided and required "That the Legislature shall
                      ratify the fifteenth amendment proposed to the Constitution of the United
                      States before Senators and Representatives from Georgia are admitted to seats
                      in Congress."
                    AND WHEREAS, The only ratification of
                      said Ffteenth Amendment by said States of Virginia, Mississippi, Texas and
                      Georgia respectively, was made and done by Legislatures of said States under
                      the duress and operation of said acts of Congress.
                    AND WHEREES, The said Fifteenth
                      Amendment has not received the necessary ratification by three-fourths of the
                      States of the Union, if the said States of Mississippi, Virginia, Texas,
                      Georgia and Indiana are or had been counted as having failed or refused to
                      assent thereto, as of right they should be counted.
                    AND, WHEREAS, The Constitutional right
                      to regulate suffrage in case said Fifteenth Amendment shall have failed to
                      receive the necessary ratification, belongs, under the Constitution of the
                      United States to the States respectively, and is impliedly recognized in the
                      Fourteenth Amendment thereto; therefore,
                    Resolved by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana.
                      That the pretended ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment, proposed to the
                      Constitution of the United States on the part of the State of Indiana, was,
                      and is null and void, and of no binding force or effect whatever, and the
                      counting of the vote of the State in favor of the same was done without any
                      lawful warrant or authority, and that protesting against the same this General
                      Assembly does now withdraw and rescind all action, perfect or imperfect, on
                      the part of this State purporting to assent to and ratify said proposed
                      Fifteenth Amendment.
                    Resolved, further, by the authority aforesaid, that
                      Congress has no lawful power derived from the Constitution of the United
                      States, nor from any other source whatever to require any State of the Union
                      to ratify an amendment proposed to the Constitution of the United States as a
                      condition precedent to representation in Congress, that all such acts of
                      ratification are null and void, and the votes so obtained ought not to be
                      counted to affect the rights of the people and the States of the whole Union,
                      and that the State of Indiana protest and solemnly declares that the so-called
                      Fifteenth Amendment is not this day nor ever has been in law a part of the
                      Constitution of the United States.
                    Resolved further, by the authority aforesaid, That the
                      State of Indiana does now propose and ask that the Congress of the United
                      States may and will, as soon as practicable, call a convention of the States
                      and the people, according to the provision of the fifth article of the
                      Constitution of the United States, for the purpose of proposing amendments to
                      said Constitution, for the ratification of the States.
                    Resolved further, by the authority aforesaid, That the
                      Governor of Indiana be and he is hereby directed to transmit an authenticated
                      copy of these resolutions, and the preamble thereto, to each of the Governors
                      of the several States of the Union, and to each of our Senators and
                      Representatives in Congress.
                  
                
              
              Mr. HUGHES asked and moved that this resolution be made the special order for
                Thursday next at 2 o'clock p. m.
              Mr. BROWN moved to amend so that 200 copies of the joint resolution may be
                printed.
              Mr. HUGHES accepted the amendment.
              Mr. DWIGGINS demanded a division of the question.
              The Senate agreed to make the joint resolution the special order for Thursday, by
                yeas, 24 ; nays, 23; and then agreed to the motion to print by the same vote.
            
            
              REORGANIZATION OF THE JUDICIARY.
              Mr. BOBO called up the special order-being his resolution proposing a redistricting
                of the State for judicial purposes, introduced last Thursday, and Mr. Hughes'
                substitute therefor, as follows:
              
                
                  
                    Resolved, That a committee of the Senate, to consist of
                      Senators Bobo, Brown, Steele, and Hadley, be and the same is hereby
                      constituted and appointed to redistrict the State for judicial purposes, to
                      report by bill or otherwise to the next session of the State Senate; and said
                      committee is instructed to consider what change, if any, the public interests
                      requires to be made in our system of courts, and report the same by bill.
                  
                
              
              Mr. BOBO accepted the substitute.
              Mr. DITTEMORE moved to amend by adding: "And that said committee shall be assisted
                in their labors by the Secretary of the Senate [Mr. Harrison.]

              

              Mr. WILLIAMS demanded a division of the question. He desired that the
                  Committee on Organization of Courts should redistrict the State
                at this session.
              Mr. BROWN thought this a good suggestion.
              On motion by Mr. HUGHES, the substitute was amended by appropriately inserting the
                words, "provided no such redistricting is done during the present General
                Assembly."
              Mr. WOODS favored the reference of this subject, for he did not think the Senate
                alone should appoint this Commissioner; it would be more appropriate to make the
                appointment by joint resolution.
              On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS, the subject was referred to the Committee on
                  Organization of Courts.
            
            
              MARION COUNTY SUBPBRIOR COURT.
              On motion of Mr. MARTINDALE the order of business was suspended and the House bill
                to establish Superior Courts, defining their jurisdiction and fixing the
                compensation of the Judges thereof, &c., was taken up and read the first
                time.
              On motion of Mr. CAVIN the constitutional restriction was dispensed with by yeas
                36, nays 0, and the bill was read by title and referred to the Committee on
                  Organisation of Courts.
            
            
              HOUSE BILLS ON THE FIRST READING.
              The bill [H. R. 38] to legalize certain acts of Trustees of the town of Gosport,
                was read the first time.
              Mr. HUGHES objected to this bill because it was a local law and unconstitutional He
                made an ineffectual motion to reject the bill affirmative 15, negative 21.
              It was passed to the second reading.
              The bill [H. R., 74], to legalize certain bonds issued by the city of Columbus for
                the construction of water works, was read the first time.
              On motion, by Mr. GLESSNER, the constitutional restriction was dispensed with yeas
                34, nays 2, and the bill was read by title and referred to the Judiciary
                  Committee.
              The bill [H. R.,2], to amend sections 4 and 6 of an act to amend the act
                prescribing the duties and powers of Coroners, was read.
              Mr. DENBO made an ineffectual motion--yeas 32, nays 2, to dispense with the
                constitutional restriction, that the bill may be read by title and
                referred--two-thirds not voting in the affirmative.
              The bill [H. R. 19] authorizing the Common Council of Jeffersonville to appoint
                pilots was read the first time.
              On motion by Mr. DITTEMORE--yeas 36, nays 3--the constitutional provision was
                dispensed with and the bill was read by title and referred to a select committee of
                three, which the Lieutenant Governor made to consist of Messrs. Dittemore,
                Martindale and Fosdick.
              The bill [H. R. 11] fixing the terms of the Courts of Common Pleas in the Fifth
                Judicial District--the county of Dearborn.
              The bill [H. R. 10] to amend section 1 of an act to amend section 43 of the act of
                July 17, 1852, to provide for the settlement of decedents' estates, and--
              The bill [H. R. 84] to prevent prize fighting, were severally read the first time
                and passed to the second reading.
              And then the Senate adjourned till 10 o'clock to-morrow.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            TUESDAY, January 24, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M. The journal of yesterday's proceedings was read and
            approved.
          
            THE CALENDAR.
            Mr. Hawley's bill, [H. R. 119], to regulate the dispensing and retailing of drugs,
              medicines and chemicals, was read the second time.
            Mr. Rhodes' bill, [H. R. 120], to amend section 4 of the liquor law of March 5, 1859,
              was read and referred to the Temperance Committee, with an amendment indicated by the
              author, and another by Mr. St. John to make the bond $2,500.
            Mr. STONE'S bill, [H. R. 72], to amend section 16, chap. 6, of the act concerning
              promissory notes, approved March 11, 1861.
            Mr. McDONALD said this bill was intended to remedy the great evil practiced on the
              part of patent right venders, by the provision that the notes shall be sued in the
              township of the drawer.
            It was ordered to the engrossment and 3d reading.
          
          
            CONTRACTS TO PAY ATTORNEYS' FEES.
            Mr. Ballenger's bill [H. R. 75], to make illegal and void all contracts for payment
              of attorneys' fees, coming up,
            Mr. BIGGS submitted an amendment excepting from the operations of the bill all notes
              payable to any bank or to any person for loaned money.
            Mr. DEFREES also indicated an amendment, which was not received--but the bill was
              ordered to the engrossment.
            Subsequently the Speaker stated the irregularity of the action on this bill, the
              amendments not having been considered.
            Mr. BALLENGER. On my motion the engrossment was ordered. The amendments were not
              passed.
            The SPEAKER. The chair was not paying attention at the time. The House will return to
              that order.
            Mr. BIGGS said his amendment was announced before the order for engrossment.
            Mr. Defrees' amendment was then read by by the Clerk--proposing that where such
              attorneys fees are allowed they shall not exceed five per cent on sums less than $500,
              two and a half per cent. on all sums over that amount.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM submitted an amendment proposing that any person, company bank, or
              corporation, violating the provisions of this act, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
              and fined not exceeding $50 nor less than $10.
            Mr. RHODES had the other day submitted an amendment that where parties agree for  the payment of such fees in a certain amount, the
              contract shall be valid.
            The SPEAKER. The Chair is not certain that the amendment of the gentleman from
              Fountain (Mr. Cunningham) is in order.
            On motion of Mr. MILLIKAN all the amendments were laid on the table.
            Mr. Hines' bill, [H. R. 79] to extend the time of certain railroads, (five years) and
              legalize the acts of certain directors.
            Mr. Washburn's bill [H. R. 99] to regulate the sale of alcoholic liquors, drugs,
              medicines, and poisons.
            Mr. Barnaby's bill [H. R. 126] to amend paragraph 13, of section 53, of the general
              city corporation act of March 14, 1867.
            Mr. Cunningham's bill [H. R. 67] to amend section 5 of the act of May 4, 1852,
              concerning mortgages.
            Mr. Biggs' bill [H. R. 136] to amend section 1 of the exemption act of February 17,
              1852.
            These bills were severally read and ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. Beeler's bill [H. R. 41] providing a homestead exemption of $1,000 coming
              up--
            Mr. BALLINGER stated that the change here is so very radical as to exempt a very
              large number of persons from the payment of their debts.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
              Taylor's bill [H. R. 63] to amend sections 62, 63, 65, 66 of the general city
              incorporation act of March 14, 1867, with amendments in section 1--inserting the words
              "or alley"--and striking out and inserting to this effect, "and to assess the cost of
              construction of any street or alley, or its alteration, and the damages resulting--in
              such equitable proportions as they shall deem just."
            The SPEAKER, The chair understands this bill proposes to amend the law in cases where
              streets are desired to be changed or extended. As the law now now stands at present
              the damages must be paid out of the common fund of the township or city. This bill
              proposes that part of the assessment be paid by persons benefited, owning land on the
              street.
            The report was concurred in.
          
          
            RECORD EVIDENCE.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr. St.
              John's bill [H. R. 132], to repeal the proviso in section 2 of the act of May 4, 1869,
              in relation to the registry of Michigan road lands, etc., recommending its
              passage.
            Mr. F. said: This proviso proposed to be repealed was to this effect: That where the
              title has not been recorded for three years, neither the record nor a copy shall be
              admissable in evidence. The Committee think there never was a good reason for this
              proviso, and that it ought to be repealed.
            Mr. BIGGS admitted his personal interestedness in the continuance of this proviso,
              but he was not alone in the matter; and he failed to see where any one could be
              injured by it, while on the other hand there are numerous cases that will be
              materially affected by this change. Perhaps gentlemen not familiar with Northern
              Indiana do not know that we have had a kind of wholesale forgery and swindling in real
              estate titles there that are terrible. We have a set of land sharks that have been
              round forging land titles- finding parties in possession of tax-titles they have made
              contracts that for a certain amount of money they would procure the original title.
              This was the especially in his county and in the county of Marshall, where parties
              have forged the deeds and the names of the officers taking the acknowledgements long
              after the parties have been dead, and put them on record; and the moment the Recorder
              writes the last word, they take the original papers and dissappear from the State. So
              they have a clear title on the record in this way. The original title is in a man of
              New Orleans; he conveys to a party in Chicago, and the latter to a man in St.
              Louis--all perfectly straight. But when you trace it, it is found that the original
              papers are all forgeries. All orders of courts have been found ineffectual to produce
              original titles--parties summoned get discharged by saying the titles are not in their
              possession; other parties have gone from the State, and the consequence is we are not
              able to show the forgeries. He cited a case of this kind wherein the original parties
              had been dead twenty-five years. If we could find the original titles for the purpose
              of comparing the handwriting we could reach the forgeries; but these have been
              spirited away by the land sharks. Now gentlemen could see the reason of that proviso;
              and to repeal it would leave many parties powerless as to the maintenance of their
              rights.
            Mr. COX was cognizant of a number of cases such as those represented by the gentleman
              from Kosciusko, [Mr. Biggs,] and hoped gentlemen living in other parts of the State
              would give a little further time.
            Mr. BALLINGER felt that it was the part of special legislation to affect the
              interests of comparatively a few people of the State on the ground that injuries have
              been sustained. Titles to real estate have been forged, he supposed, in other places
              than Northern Indiana, Hundreds and thousands of original deeds are mislaid. Almost
              every attorney has such papers in his office, and the owners do not know where they
              are. Some of the courts wholly ignored this law, and when it is plead by attorneys the
              Court laughs at them. The Courts are open against all violations of the law. But in
              some cases it is dodged by allowing these copies in evidence, while they do not admit
              the original. It did seem to him that any very ingenious court would have much
              difficulty in showing the irregularity and presumption of fraud connected with the
              fact of offering for record deeds and papers twenty-seven or thirty years after the
              grantors and all the original parties are dead and gone. On its very face it suggests
              fraud. Even in the case the gentleman referred to, they were not without remedy.
              Certainly it is not better that hundreds and thousands of  persons should he deprived of their rights in order that
              the few may he benefitted.
            Mr. ST. JOHN, author of the bill, was not in favor of too much legislation, but where
              an act of legislation has been hurried through to the manifest injustice of a large
              portion of the people of the State, it ought to be repealed. With regard to the
              instances--of wrong referred to by the gentlemen from Kosciusko, [Mr. Biggs] there
              were other means of remedy besides the repeal of this proviso. He had yet to learn the
              case of any man convicted of purjury without a prosecution. He would meet the
              statements of wrong suffered by the gentleman and others with a statement of facts. He
              spoke of actions under this proviso, founded upon the fact that deeds have not been
              recorded within the three years. The heirs have come forward seeking to recover lands
              which have thus been conveyed away in good faith. He supposed a case. The gentleman
              from Kosciusko owns a piece of land in Marion county worth $20,000. I purchase it and
              take his deed, but in the innocency of my heart I lay this deed among my papers, as we
              frequently do--and there are hundreds and thousands of deeds that have laid three
              years without record--well, I do not take possession of this land immediately ; but in
              one week after the three years expires I am Indianapolis and get my deed recorded. I
              am not within this proviso. The party that made the deed dies; and the orginal deed is
              destroyed by fire; and there is nothing left but the record of it, made one week after
              the three years expired. After this the gentleman's wife and children come into the
              Court of Marion county and prosecute me or my heirs for the land; and, sir, I am now
              excluded from producing my record of title. I ask if this wrong is not as great as the
              wrong which the gentleman speaks of ? We can't make a law against the perpetration of
              perjury or forgery, nor do we legislate for the purpose of deterring men from acting
              the land shark. This proviso does not apply to records hereafter made, but to those
              made in the past as well as those in the future; and by it innocent parties may be
              deprived of their lands because in the innocence of their souls they have failed to
              put their deeds upon the record within the prescribed three years.
            When he had concluded, and after further debate by Messrs. BALLENGER and DAVIDSON
              -the latter suggesting an amendment prohibiting the person who puts his deed upon
              record from withdrawing the same from the Recorder's office.
            On motion of Mr. BALLENGER the report of the commitiee was concurred in.
          
          
            CONTRACTS FOR ATTORNEY'S FEES.
            Mr. RHODES moved ineffectually to table his previous motion to reconsider the vote of
              this morning, which adopted Mr. Millikan's motion to lay on the table certain
              amendments offered to Mr. Ballenger's ironclad note bill, but after some conversation
              across the House--
            On motion of MARTIN, of Putnam, the vote on Mr. Millikan's motion was reconsidered,
              which brings the amendments again before the House.
            Mr. St. JOHN, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
              Williams' decedents estates' law amendment bill [H. R. 135], with a recommendation
              that it be laid on the table--the Committee being of opinion that the amendments
              proposed to the law by which a married woman may dispose of her property without the
              husband would be separating the interests of husband and wife, and so disturb that
              domestic relation.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. St. JOHN, from the Committee on the organization of Courts,
              returned Mr. Ballinger's bill [H. R 81], to repeal all laws creating criminal courts
              in the State, except in the counties of Marion and Vigo, recommending its passage.
            Mr. NEFF inquired if the passage of such a bill would not be local legislation.
            Mr. RHODES, Mr. Hooker and Mr. McDonald, could not see the propriety of retaining the
              Criminal Court in Vigo county and abolishing it in Vanderburgh. The statute creating
              these criminal courts requiring counties having a certain population to maintain
              criminal courts.
            Mr. LINES said the Committee on the Organization of Courts had
              taken the bill as desirable on the part of the people, because coming from a gentleman
              living in one of the counties supporting a criminal court.
            Mr. BALLENGER. Those acquainted with these courts know that they are a peculiar kind
              of courts--new fangled courts in the State of Indiana. There was, perhaps, some
              necessity for such a court in Marion county; but with the exception of Marion county,
              he questioned very much whether there was any propriety or necessity for such a court
              anywhere else in the State. And after its novelty, he considered its expensiveness and
              general inutility. And with respect to the objection of special legislatian, he could
              not understand how this bill, which proposes to repeal certain acts creating criminal
              courts, can be special legislation, unless the acts themselves creating these courts
              were acts of special legislation--this being a bill simply to repeal these criminal
              court acts, excepting those for the counties of Marion and Vigo.
            Mr. DAVIDSON gave his reasons for concurring in the action of the Committee, which
              recommends the passage of the bill. Among the people of his county the feeling is very
              general against this bill. During the canvass there was no man who raised his voice in
              favor of their continuance. Those in favor of the continuance of these courts were not
              disposed to speak out. Almost the entire voice of the people of Tippecanoe county,
              outside of Lafayette, were against them. They seem to have been demanded at first on
              account of the heavy business in the Circuit Courts; and the demand rose chiefly from
              the members of the bar; and its reasonableness might be admitted on account of the
              rule which give precedence to the criminal 
              business on the docket. He considered it best not to continue these Criminal Courts
              not to favor them by legislation till our Criminal Circuits can be satisfactorily
              arranged. Otherwise he predicted that before the close of the next session there would
              be other applications for these courts from Logansport, Peru, Valparaiso, etc., and so
              we would have a great many idle Courts. He continued till--
            The SPEAKER, to shorten the debate, made a statement to the effect that there
              certainly could be no objection to abolishing these Courts where it was desired by the
              people and to their continuance where that was desirable. So far as the chair was
              concerned, his vote would be governed in this way.
            After further debate by Messrs. Ruddell, Cunningham, Stanberry and Ballenger--
            On motion of Mr. WILSON the bill was referred to the Committee on the
                Organization of Courts, with instructions to call before them for
              consultation all the members of the House interested.
            Mr. ABBETT laid before the House the report of the Trustees of the State University,
              which was referred to the Committee on Education.
            The SPEAKER announced the appointment of Mr. Conner as a member of the
                Committee on the Sinking Fund in place of Mr. Cauthorn; and Mr.
              Mitchell was added to the Committee on Education.
            Mr. BROWNING, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
              returned Mr. Browning's bill [H. R. 85] providing for the sale of lands returned
              delinquent for the non-payment of taxes, recommending its indefinite postponement.
            Mr. BALLENGER said every one knows that in cases of the sale of land for taxes by the
              county officers, they can not furnish a title to the purchaser which will stand, and
              the result is that they can not be sold. The object of this bill that the result of
              the sale upon the judgment should be to gain a good title.
            After debate by Messrs. Browning and Mitchell the House took a recess till 2 o'clock
              P.M.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed at two o'clock P. M., and announced the unfinished order to wit:
              The consideration of the report of the Committee on County and Township
                Business for the indefinite postponement of Mr. Browning's delinquent land
              tax sale bill [H. R., 85.]Mr. BROWNING proposed to amend by making the attorney's fees
              $5 instead of $10, but
            Objection being made as to the order--Mr. MINICK holding that Mr. Browning should
              have the right to give notice of such an amendment.
            Mr. BALLENGER moved ineffectually to recommit the bill to the same Committee.
            Mr. BROWNING desired that it should go to the Judiciary Committee; but--
            Objection being made, Mr. BALLINGER moved that it be referred to the
                Committee on Rights and Privileges.
            On motion of Mr. WILSON, Mr. Ballinger's motion was laid on the table.
            Mr. BROWNING moved that it be referred to a special committee of five.
            On motion of Mr. CUNNINGHAM, this motion was laid on the table.
            Mr. DEFREES and Mr. WILSON demanded the previous question; and there was a second,
              and on the main question--
            The House refused to concur in the report of the Committee on County and
                Township Business. And then--
            On motion of Mr. WILSON the bill was referred to the Committee on the
                Judiciary.
            Mr. BEELER, from the Committee on Agriculture, returned Mr.
              Rhodes' bill [H. R. 151,] for bounty on red fox scalps, with an amendment striking out
              "red," and so recommending its passage.
            The report was concurred in.
            
              BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS.
              Mr. MINICK, from the Committee on the Benevolent Institutions of the
                  State, returned his bill, [H. R. 69], for special appropriations to meet
                existing contracts and current expenses of the benevolent institutions of the State,
                with amendments making the appropriation for the Deaf and Dumb Asylum $5,000 instead
                of $7,000 striking out House of Refuge, and inserting Soldiers' and Orphans' Home in
                lieu, and adding (section 4) an appropriation of $13,500 for the payment of Messrs.
                Braden & Co. for the introduction of the Holly Water Works in the Hospital for
                the Insane, and so recommending its passage.
              The report was concurred in.
            
            
              AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION--WABASH AND ERIE CANAL
                BUSINESS.
              The SPEAKER announced the special order, to-wit: the report of the special
                committee to consider the various propositions relative to the amendment to the
                State Constitution as to the Wabash and Erie Canal business.
              The Committee rejected the Senate's proposition for amendment of the Constitution,
                article 10, by adding a section as heretofore reported in these proceedings.
              Mr. NEFF moved that the resolution be adopted, and enforced the motion in a general
                speech (crowded out here for want of space) which will appear hereafter in
                continuation in these REPORTS.
              Mr. MILES followed, urging also the adoption of the report, urging his views in a
                speech at length, which must also be referred to our continuation of this
                debate.
              Mr. McDONALD and Mr. BALLENGER, also successively took the floor, urging the
                justice and public policy of the adoption of the report, in briefer speeches, which
                must take the same reference here.
              The resolution reported by the special committee was adopted -- yeas 93, nays,
                none.
              On motion of Mr. WILSON it was ordered that members not voting on this question be
                   recorded as excused absentees; and Messrs.
                Robertson, White, Williams, Taylor and others were mentined in this connection.
            
            
              REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
              Mr. MONTGOMERY, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges,
                returned Mr. Stone's bill [H. R. 40] to amend section 7, chapter 170, relative to
                supervisors, recommending that it lie on the table.
              After debate by Messrs. Stone, Guthrie, Cox, Britton, Mitchell, Butterworth and
                Lines.
              The House refused to concur in the report, and the bill was ordered to the
                engrossment.
              Mr. BRITTON, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr. Holland's
                bill [H. R. 106] to prevent electors from voting for supervisor other than that in
                his own district, with an amendment striking out and making the penalty $10 instead
                of $50, and so recommending its passage.
              Mr. MILLIKAN, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr. Curtiss'
                bill [H. R. 42] to amend section 11 of the act to allow County Commissioners to
                organize turnpike companies, recommending its passage.
              Mr. CURTIS explained, that it is to authorize road directors to reduce their tolls
                at discretion.
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. MONTGOMERY, from the Committee on Roads returned Mr.
                Hooker's bill [H. R., 100], for a road tax from 1 to 35 cents, and $1 poll, road
                improvements by contract, recommending that it be laid on the table.
              After debate by Mr. HOOKER and Mr. KENNEDY, the report was concurred in.
              Mr. WILSON (by unanimous consent) introduced a bill [H. R. 107] for an act in
                relation to fees of certain officers and persona therein named, and prescribing
                penalties for the violation of its provisions, which was read by title and 200
                copies thereof ordered to be printed.
              And then, at 4:45 o'clock, the House adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            WEDNESDAY, January 25, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A. M., pursuant to adjournment under the rules--the
            Lieutenant-Governor in the chair.
          Prayer by Bev. J. B. BRANDT, Superintendent of the Young Men's Christian
            Association.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were being read, when--
          On motion of Mr. DENBO, the further reading thereof was dispensed with.
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, &c.,
            were presented, and severally referred to the appropriate committees under the rule,
              to-wit:
            By Mr. HADLEY, on the subject of temperance, which was not read. Also on the subject
              of Prison Reform, praying that a Board of Supervisors be created, of which three shall
              be women, for separate prisons for women, &c.
            By Mr. HENDERSON, praying for the enactment of a law making it a criminal offense to
              destroy fish, except by hook and line.
            By Mr. STEELE, three petitions from 500 citizens of Jay county on the subject of
              temperance.
            By Mr. COLLETT, praying that no change be made in the railroad aid law.
          
          
            JEFFERSON CRIMINAL COURT.
            On motion by Mr. FRANCISCO, his bill, [S. 105] to abolish the Jefferson Criminal
              Court was taken up, read by title and referred to the Committee on
                Organization of Courts.
          
          
            IMMIGRATION.
            Mr. DITTEMORE submitted a set of preamble and resolutions from the Common Council of
              Evansville on the subject of emigration, instructing their immediate representatives
              in the General Assembly to use all honorable efforts to induce immigration to this
              State. It was referred to the Committee on Emigration.
          
          
            REORGANIZATION OF THE JUDICIARY.
            Mr. GLESSNER submitted a resolution of inquiry, addressed to the Committee
                on Organization of Courts, concerning the expediency of redistricting the
              State for judicial purposes. He submitted reasons for its adoption.
            The resolution was adopted.
          
          
            NEWSPAPERS.
            Mr. HADLEY offered a resolution instructing the Doorkeeper to discontinue the Senate
              subscription for the Daily Telegraph from and after this date.
            Mr. DWIGGINS moved to amend by discontinuing all papers except the Daily
                Journal and the Daily-Sentinel.
            Mr. DITTEMORE moved to lay the resolution and amendment on the table.
            Mr. GRAY demanded a division of the question.
            The Senate refused to lay the amendment [Mr. Dwiggins'] on the table, by yeas 17,
              nays 23.
          
          
            AN ADDITIONAL DOORKEEPER.
            Mr. HUGHES offered a preamble and resolution reciting reasons for employing another
              Assistant Doorkeeper--Jacob H. Martin. He urged considerations in favor of the passage
              of his resolution.
            The resolution was adopted by yeas 34, nays 10.
          
          
            REVISION OF THE STATUTES.
            Mr. DWIGGINS submitted a resolution providing for the appointment of a Committee of
              four to revise the statutes of the State and report at the next regular session of the
              Legislature.
            On his motion it was referred to the Committee on the organization of
                Courts.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The following described bills were introduced, read the first time and severally
              passed to the second reading.
            By Mr. DENBO, a bill [S. 124], to amend sections 97and 98 of the common school law,
              approved March 6, 1865.
            By Mr. HAMILTON, a bill [S. 125], for an act to amend section 1 of the act to protect
              sidewalks and shade trees in towns and villages, approved March 3, 1867, amended by
              the act of March 9, 1869, so as to protect side walks outside of towns and
              villages.
            By Mr. DOUGHERTY, a bill [S. 126], to limit the amount allowed by Judges and County
              Commissioners to attorneys for prosecuting criminals.
            By Mr. BEESON. A bill [S. 127] to amend the fish law of March 9, 1867, defining the
              time when they may be netted, shotted,  trapped
              or seined. [Between the first days of March and October, excepting the Ohio and St.
              Joseph rivers.]
            By Mr. MORGAN. A bill [S. 128] to amend sections 349 and 350 of the General Practice
              and Procedure Act, approved June 18, 1852.
          
          
            ABSENCE.
            Leaves of absence were granted to Mr. Green for the balance of the week, on account
              of sickness in his family: Mr Miller, till 2 o'clock, Monday, and the
                Committee on Benevolent Institutions for to-morrow, that they may
              visit the Insane Asylum.
          
          
            THIRD JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
            The bill [H. R 3] fixing the times in the Third Judicial Circuit for holding court
              terms, was read the first time and passed to the second reading.
          
          
            SOLDIERS' HOMESTEADS.
            The House joint resolution requesting and instructing Congressmen from Indiana to aid
              the passage of a bill allowing soldiers and sailors to pre-empt and hold homesteads
              without residing thereon, was read.
            On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE it was considered and passed the Senate, by yeas 40, nays
              0.
            Mr. LASALLE, believing a similar resolution has been passed this body, entered a
              motion to reconsider the vote just taken, in order that this resolution may be
              referred to a committee to ascertain whether this same matter has been duplicated.
          
          
            THE LATE GOV. WILLARD.
            The House joint resolution for an appropriation of $1,000 to erect a monument over
              the grave of the late Ashbel P. Willard, formerly a governor of this State, being
              read--
            Mr. HOOPER did not understand that appropriations can be made from the State Treasury
              by resolutions simply. He therefore moved that this resolution be referred to the
                Committee on Finance.
            The motion was agreed to.
          
          
            THE PUBLIC DOMAIN.
            The House concurrent resolution protesting against any further donations of the
              public lands to private corporations, and instructing and requesting Indiana's
              Congressmen to oppose this evil, was read and passed the Senate by yeas, 41; nays,
              0.
          
          
            SOLDIERS OF 1861.
            The House joint resolution [H. R. 7], instructing Senators and requesting
              Representatives in Congress from Indiana to use all honoroble means to secure the
              passage of a law to equalize the bounties of soldiers and seamen who served in the war
              of the rebellion, was read and passed the Senate by yeas 38; nays, 0.
          
          
            THE FRANKING PRIVILEGE.
            Joint resolution [H. R. 9], in relation to the abolition of the franking privilege,
              instructing and requesting Congressmen in relation thereto, being read--
            On motion by Mr. HUGHES it was referred to the Committee on Federal
                Relations.
          
          
            REAL ESTATE AND RAILROADS.
            The House concurrent resolution providing for the appointment of a joint committee on
              appraisement and equalization of real estate and railroads, being read--
            On motion of Mr. HUGHES it was referred to the Committee on
                Finance.
          
          
            CORRECTION.
            Mr. COLLETT called attention to an error in the morning papers. In the description of
              his bill, S. 120, for the relief of Samuel B. Davis, introduced yesterday, before the
              words "a judgment," the following words were left out which should have been inserted,
              to-wit: "the payment of ten per cent damages and the interest on."
            And then came the recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at 2 o'clock, P. M., and announced the
              special order--being Mr. Brown's motion to reject the bill [S 86,] to protect the
              Wabash and Erie Canal from sale or sequestration; which motion was made at the time of
              the introduction of the bill.
            Mr. BROWN demanded the previous question, and the vote--affirmative 17, negative
              16--showing no quorum--
            On motion by Mr. HUGHES a call of the Senate was ordered, and being taken discovered
              39 Senators as present and answering to their names.
            On motion by Mr. BROWN, further proceedings under the call were dispensed with.
            Mr. BROWN renewed his demand for the previous question.
            Messrs. BEESON and MARTINDALE demanding the yeas and nays, they were ordered, and
              being taken resulted--yeas 23, nays 20--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Bobo, Bradley,Brown,
                    Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty, Francisco, Fuller, Gleesner. Gregg,
                    Henderson, Hughes, Johnson, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan, Rosebrough,
                    Sarninghausen, and Stroud--23.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson. Case, Caven,
                    Collett, Dwiggins, Elliott. Fosdick, Gray, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper,
                    Martindale, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, and Wadge--20.
                
              
            
            The bill was rejected by yeas 22, nays 21 as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs Alsop, Armstrong, Bobo, Bradley, Brown, Cave,
                    Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty. Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg, Henderson,
                    Hughes, Johnson, Keigwin. Morgan, Rosebrough, Sarninghausen. Stroud and
                    Williams--22.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson. Case, Caven,
                    Collett, Dwiggins, Elliott, Fosdick, Gray, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper,
                    Martindale, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--21.
                
              
            
            Pending the roll call--
            Mr. MARTINDALE, in explanation of hie vote said: While I would want the bill so
              amended as to make it more specific in the matter of the State being made a party to
              suits before I would vote for the bill, yet I can not vote to reject the bill, as it
              is a very unusual proceeding, and the subject of the bill is one upon which
              legislation should be had at the present session, and this bill may be so amended as
              to protect perfectly the interest of the State.

            

            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR then announced the vote as above recorded. So the bill was
              rejected.
            Mr. MARTINDALE asked but failed to obtain leave to introduce a bill on the same
              subject.
            By consent it was read for information, as follows:
            AN ACT to provide for the adjustment of certain State
              indebtedness, contracted prior to the year 1841 and mentioned therein,
            SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of
                the State of Indiana, That the Governor, Secretary, Auditor and Treasurer of
              this State, or a majority of them, be, and they are hereby, authorized and empowered
              to settle, adjust and take upon the best terms which they can obtain, sixty-nine bonds
              or certificates of indebtedness of the State, each for the sum of one thousand dollars
              exclusive of interest, some of which were issued in the year 1835, and the residue in
              the year 1838, the same being now held by the United States in trust for certain
              Indians or Indian tribes.
            SECTION 2. That the Governor, Secretary, Auditor and Treasurer of
              State or a majority of them be, and they are hereby further authorized and empowered
              to settle, adjust, and take up on the best terms which they can obtain, one hundred
              and twenty-two other bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this State issued prior
              to the year 1841, under the General Internal Improvement Act, approved January 27,
              1836, and not surrendered under the adjustment made by the Legislature of 1846 and
              1847, commonly called "the Butler Bills," a part of said last mentioned bonds or
              certificates being for $1,000 each, and the residue being for two hundred and
              twenty-five pounds Sterling, each exclusive of interest.
            SECTION 3. In adjusting or taking up any bond or certificate of
              indebtedness contemplated by either of the foregoing sections, said officers shall in
              no case and under no circumstances give, pay or allow a greater sum therefor than may
              be legally due thereon, or there might be collected by action if suit could be brought
              on each bond or certificate of indebtedness.
            SECTION 4. A sufficient sum of money is hereby appropriated to
              enable the said State officers to carry out the foregoing provision of this act; and
              should there not be a sufficient sum of money in the Treasury uppropriated for that
              purpose, said State officers or a majority of their may negotiate or make a temporary
              bond on behalf of the State of such sum of money as may be necessary for the purpose
              aforesaid, the same to be payable within sixty days from and after the commencement of
              the next succeeding session of the General Assembly, or sooner if before the
              commencement of such session there shall be money in the Treasuay unappropriated
              sufficient for that purpose.
            SECTION 5. An emergency is hereby declared to exist for the
              immediate taking effect of this; act wherefore the same shall take effect and be in
              force from and after its passage.
            Mr. HUGHES. That bill is connected with the same subject that was made the special
              order for to-day and with the bill we have just rejected. I hope, in order that we may
              dispose of this matter finally, that the Senate will allow the Senator from Marion
              (Mr. Martindale) to introduce his bill, when I shall immediately move to reject it,
              and shall give my reasons for thinking that this bill is pretty near as bad as the
              other. I stand committed to vote to pay these outstanding bonds, but I want to show
              this Senate that these bills sent in here in the handwriting of the Governor do not
              meet the case.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Is there any objection? The Chair hears no objection. The
              bill has been read the first time. [It is numbered S. 124.]
            Mr. HUGHES, Mr. President, I move thnt it be rejected. Mr. Hughes thereupon proceeded
              to give his reasons for making this motion.
            Mr. MARTINDALE and Mr. STEELE followed in support of the bill, and Mr. Brown in
              opposition.
            Mr. DWIGGINS and Mr. GRAY spoke in favor of this measure.
            Mr. STEELE then addressed the Senate in reply to Mr. Brown's speech of the 17th.
              inst. on this subject, and--
            Mr. BROWN indulged in a rejoinder--all of which debate is preserved for the appendix
              to these reports.
            Mr. HADLEY demanded the previous question.
            The Senate seconded the demand.
            The motion to reject the bill was then agreed to by--yeas, 20; nays 17, as
              follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Bobo, Bradley, Brown, Cave,
                    Dittemore, Dougherty, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg, Henderson, Hughes,
                    Johnson, Keigwin, Morgan, Rosebrough, Sarninghausen and Stroud--20.
                  NAYS--Megsrs. Beardsley, Beeson, Case, Caven, Collett,
                    Dwiggins, Fosdick, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper, Martindale, Scott, Steele,
                    Taylor, Wadge and Wood--17.
                
              
            
            Pending the roll call--
            Mr. MARTINDALE, in explanation of his vote said: If the bill is not alreedy
              sufficiently specific in limiting the power of the State officers to the adjustment of
              the "Internal Improvement bonds," which are now due and only as they become due, I
              would accept an amendment to make it perfectly clear on that point, but there is no
              justice or propriety in rejecting the bill, as we must met this question this session,
              or we may have reason to regret it
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR then announced the vote.
            So the bill was rejected.
            
              THE INDIANA SENATE -SENATOR MORTON AND OTHERS.
              Mr.HUGHES saying that the vote in this Senate on the San Domingo resolutions having
                become a subject for discussion in Congress, he desired to make a correction for the
                benefit of the public. Twenty-six Senators voted for that joint resolution in this
                   Senate; of these there were twenty-four
                Democrats, counting my own vote. Two Republican Senators voted for the
                resolution--Messrs Hubbard and Wadge. There was absent one Democratic Senator, Mr.
                Dougherty, and two Republicans, Messrs. Beeson and Dwiggins. There were 20 Senators
                voting against the resolution, including the Senator from Fayette, Mr. Elliott. This
                matter has been alluded to in Congress by a Representative from this State and
                another State as in some way connected with the Burson case. Senator Morton stated
                that the resolution was passed by a party vote. That is not the fact; twenty-six
                votes are necessary to pass a joint resolution, and that resolution could not have
                been passed, except with the votes of the two Republican Senators named, whose
                loyalty to their party is not questioned.
              Mr. HUGHES, by consent, offered the following:
              
                
                  
                    Resolved, That the Committee on Finance
                      of the Senate be, and is hereby instructed to prepare and report a bill,
                      without delay, providing for the payment of all principal and interest now due
                      or that will become due prior to the fifth day of January. 1873, on the old
                      Internal Improvement bonds not surrendered under the laws commonly called the
                      "Butler Bills," and acts amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto, and
                      that said bill shall provide for the payment of said principal and interest,
                      as to time, place of payment and amounts according to the terms of said bonds,
                      and interest at the rate of six per cent per annum shall be allowed upon
                      coupons over due from and after their maturity.
                    Pending which--
                    The Senate, at 6 o'clock P. M., adjourned till 10 o'clock A. M.
                      to-morrow.
                  
                
              
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            WEDNESDAY, January 25, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M. The order of prayer by Rev. Mr. SCOTT.
          The journal of yesterday was read and and approved, till--
          On motion of Mr. McDOWELL its further reading was dispensed with.
          
            ROAD LAWS.
            The SPEAKER announced the unfinished business, viz.: The report of the Committee on
              Mr. Hooker's bill [H. R.--] to improve roads by contract.
            Mr. HOOKER desired that it should be printed with the pending amendments.
            Mr. MINNICK opposed. It was the best for the people to work their own roads; this
              proposition might do for the cities.
            Mr. RHODES spoke on the other side--of the inefficiency of the present laws for
              improvement of the roads. Throwing this responsibility upon the Supervisors elected as
              at present--the system would never secure good roads. He hoped the House would
              postpone the matter without taking immediate action against some amendment of the Road
              laws. He rather advised the printing. He could endorse a good many of the features of
              Mr. Taylor's road bill--He would have the best provisions in all the road bills
              reported from a careful committee.
            Mr. McGOWAN. This bill provides for a specific tax to be expended in the district
              where collected. It takes nothing from the State funds, and provides for the
              responsibility of the Supervisors. He insisted on better road laws.
            Mr. MYERS. Under ordinary circumstances he would be in favor of going slow on this
              bill. He commended some features of the bill and the impracticability of others. The
              contract system was too complicate. It might work well in cities and towns, As he
              understood the bill, it abolishes the road working by taxpayers--throwing the whole
              upon property. It cuts off one of the beat resources for road improvement. It lacks
              any provision for emergencies, when the road funds are all expanded. It was a radical
              change, and impracticable.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Wayne, was also satisfied of the impraciicability of the bill. He
              recited the duties of his Township Trustees to show that the bill imposed too much on
              the Township Trustees. He was satisfied with the present law, and concurred with the
              Speaker's admonition against too frequent changes in the laws. The abuses of the laws
              were not the fault of the laws. The only thing we have to do with the present road
              laws is to enforce them rigidly. John Tyler, of Virginia, made a good Supervisor.
            Mr. CONNER regarded this as a matter of more importance than we are apt to attach to
              it. He considered that the bill desired more consideration than it had received in the
              committee. He commended the feature, that the real estate ought to be compelled to
              keep up the roads, and the poll tax for which it provides. This would provide for the
              suggested emergencies by the gentleman from Elkhart; and it would provide against
              unseasonable working of the roads. Let the friends of this measure perfect this
              bill.
            Mr. DEFREES moved that the bill be referred again to the committee.
            Mr. STRICKLAND was for further time. The present road laws were insufficient; did not
              secure good supervisors. He liked the bill [S.84] better than this bill, and advised a
              careful consideration of the whole matter, so as to defeat the present abuses in
              regard to working the roads. He gave examples. The people demanded remedy.
            Mr. BRITTON. The people found not so much objection to the road law as the lack of
              its enforcement. Then he advised to insist on the enforcement of the law. He was in
              favor of the report of the committee. His people were willing to put in their labor.
              They did not shrink because of poverty.
            Mr. ZENOR thought there was another bill before the same committee on
                roads, better guarded than this. He threfore counselled reference.
            Mr. NETHERTON. Perhaps no people were more interested than his in one or two features
              of this bill. The best part of the law was its practical operation. He referred to the
              bad operation of the present law. In this bill there was a feature which called in the
              aid of non-residents for the improve-  ment of
              the roads. He would have equal justice in the matter.
            Mr. CALKINS moved to amend the motion by making its reference to the
                Committee on County and Township Business.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH supported the amendment and spoke in favor of the bill, giving
              examples.
            Mr. DEFREES accepted the modification of his motion.
            Mr. MITCHELL was opposed to giving the Trustees the power contemplated in this
              bill--objecting to his discretion, as to the responsibility of contractors. It was
              wrong to disturb existing laws that have done all that has been done for the
              roads.
            Mr. SNODGRASS. The provision in regard to the collection of the road tax, would not
              return every dollar to the road district there would be the fees of the County
              Treasurer and the Township Trustee. Then the Trustee must be paid for making the
              contracts. Another and a worse feature was that the contractor may draw the money
              after giving security on the contract, which might involve actions at law, and the
              law's delay would prevent the timely working of the roads. And then, by this bill, the
              people have to pay for the road with money instead of labor.
            Mr. HOLLAND demanded the previous question, and, under its pressure, the bill was
              referred to the Committee on County and Township Business.
            Mr. MONTGOMERY, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr. Martin of Wayne's bill [H.
              R. 154] to amend the act relative to the election or appointment of Supervisors,
              recommending its passage. It requires the people of each district to elect their own
              Supervisors.
            The report was concurred in.
            On motion of Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, Mr. Major was added to the Committee on
                Fees and Salaries.
            Mr. BRITTON, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr. Stone's
              bill [H. R. 55] to amend the eighteenth section of the act of 1865, so as to secure
              the provisions of the act of March 12th, 1852, recommending its passage.
            Mr. STONE expressed the desire of his people for the repeal of that eighteenth
              section, which requires that the pike charters shall be given up after twenty years ;
              for the reason that under that law the roads will not be kept up.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. MARTIN, from the same committee, returned Mr. Stone's bill [H. R. 105] for
              allowing persons to make certain improvements on the highways, recommending its
              passage. It is to permit any person having real estate in the District to make
              improvements on the highway, by the consent of the Supervisor, to be credited on his
              road tax.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. MONTGOMERY, from the same committee, returned Mr. Coggswell's bill [H. R. 96] to
              amend sec. 45 for an act providing for opening, vacating and changing highways,
              approved June 17, 1852 recommending its passage.
            Mr. GOGGSWELL said: It is simply to change the law of 1852, so that where citizens
              petition the Board in these matters they shall give proper notice.
            The report was concurred in.
            A message from the Governor was received transmitting information in regard to the
              suit pending in the Putnam Circuit Court of the State against the Terre Haute Railroad
              Company.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter, from the Special Committee thereon, returned Mr. Woods' bill,
              [H. R. 137,] fixing the times of the Common Pleas in the 16th District, with
              amendments, and asking for its passage. The report was concurred in.
            A message from the Senate by Mr. Cory, Secretary, announced the passage on the part
              of that body of a concurrent resolution resolution for a memorial to the Congress of
              the United States for amendments to the tariff laws so as to place tea, sugar and salt
              on the free list, etc.
          
          
            DOCTORS AND QUACKS.
            Mr. MINICH, from the Select Committee thereon, returned Mr. Washburn's empiricism
              bill, [H. R. 147,] recommending its passage.
            Mr. NEFF. I am not much of a doctor, but it seems to me that this is rather a wild
              bill. There may be some good provisions in it; but I suppose the plain English of it
              is: to legislate against what is commonly known in this country as quackery, I did not
              hear all the bill; but I heard enough to satisfy me that I ought to vote against
              concurring in that report. I have no disposition to offend any one, but I suppose I
              state the fact when say that this bill is in the interest of that certain class of men
              who have what is called their sheepskins. Now, sir, my notion is that merit should be
              the test. We have physicians in this land who never saw a medical school, and women
              who never attended a medical lecture, whose presence in many a trying hour, have been
              of the utmost importance to the suffering of their own sex who, by this bill, will be
              ostracised, Who is to judge in these cases? The medical schools and societies. They
              must say whether a woman shall be called in the most trying hour. I, sir, intend to
              put myself on the record against that bill from the title to the last clause. My
              understanding of it is, that certain gentlemen who have attended the medical schools
              and obtained their passports, desire the Legislature to interfere in their behalf-in
              behalf of those having the honor, perhaps, of dissecting a few subjects, who have been
              snatched from private graves--and to enable them to decide that such qualifications
              are much better than practice, and practical knowledge and observation of diseases and
              climate that such shall be cut off, or must go to the medical schools for two years
              after they have been recognized in practice as successful physicians at home--that
              such must lock up their offices and go to Chicago, or elsewhere, to some college and
              spend two years of precious time. Sir, the constitution of the  State says that every man of 21 years, of good moral
              character, shall be entitled to practice law. That is right, and if this bill said
              that a man may practice medicine having a good moral character, I might be in favor of
              it in that particular.
            Mr. MINICH suggested that it has such a provision.
            Mr. NEFF. Then I am in favor of tha part. But to be serious, I oppose this bill from
              a sense of duty, believing that such legislation is preposterous. If gentlemen can't
              stand with their sheepskins, let them fall.
            Mr. HAWLEY was agreed that merit should be the test; and if this bill were gotten up
              in the interest of the sheepskin gentlemen he would vote against it. The statutes of
              our border States have such a law as this bill proposes, and the result is that even
              here in Indianapolis, they have quackeries and specialties in everything that pertains
              to medicine. When the gentleman speaks of the merits of those "mothers in Israel," I
              merely state that I have been called professionally to relieve those mothers in Israel
              in cases of emergency. I will say further as to this bill, that there is no compotent
              woman who can pass examination and who desires to practice, who would be excluded from
              the privileges of any board or medical society. For his own part he would be in favor
              of a State Board of Examination.
            Mr. McDONALD, on principles of justice to the people, could not agree with his friend
              on the right (Mr. Neff). He was opposed to quackery in every shape; to any individual
              undertaking to do anything for which he has not the brains.
            Mr. NEFF (interposing). Do you suppose that this Legislature can give any man
              brains?
            Mr. McDONALD. No, sir; but I do think that this Legislature may make a board of
              directors who can say who has brains. (Laughter.) I have some feeling on this subject.
              I had a good wife--the choice of my youth--who sleeps her last sleep from quackery, (I
              regret to mention this here), and I want to protect the one I now love to honor. As
              far as those "Mothers in Israel" are concerned, I honor them as the gentleman. I hope
              this bill will pass with proper guards for the protection of the people. I am not here
              for the protection of the physicians, but that the people may be protected. The
              provisions of the bill are liberal, and at the same time honorable to the
              profession.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. Before what board must these physicians appear for
              examination?
            Mr. HAWLEY. The State organizations of physicians are the boards.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH desired to amend by this: Provided that nothing herein shall be so
              construed as to prohibit practice in obstetrics.
            The SPEAKER could not entertain the amendment at this stage of the question.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH then gave notice of such an amendment, thinking that without it the
              bill will cut off a large class of worthy practitioners. Although his brother
              physicians might not generally agree with him, still he thought it better for the
              community at large that these might be saved. He also suggested and defended a
              provision that should admit homeopathic, hydropathic and eclectic physicians, upon the
              sole condition that they are educated. Let it be required that every man that pretends
              to be a doctor shall know his business.
            Mr CALKINS, of Porter. Perhaps I differ with gentlemen as to the purpose for which
              this bill is introduced. My idea of men of all professions is that they should be
              competent to discharge the duties in which they advertise themselves. I am opposed to
              all quackery, and I scarcely think that the gentleman from Putnam will take a position
              in its favor. I think most people regard it as a bad thing, and I can but think that
              the State Constitution, by the good moral character qualification of lawyers,
              increases litigation--that more petty lawsuits have been prosecuted on account of it.
              I am in favor of a bill of this kind; but I do not understand that this bill has a
              sufficient provision for a board for examining all persons who practice medicine. I
              know there is an organization like that spoken of by the gentleman from Putnam, and
              that there are more than one, and that these organizations are at war with each
              other.
            Mr. MINICH explained that if a man comes with a recommendation from his school he is
              entitled to practice, and no association can prevent it.
            Mr. CALKINS. Well, Mr. Speaker, I am still opposed to it if that is the case. There
              ought to be some established board for the examination of all parties who apply for
              practice.
            Mr. MILES. If a man has passed examination at a medical college, it is prima facia evidence that he has studied for practice; and, therefore, it is
              not necessary for him to pass the examinations of a medical society.
            Mr. CALKINS. My position is that this bill places in the hands of medical
              associations a power to ostracise the medical profession. In its present shape I am
              opposed to it, on account of its placing in the hands of associations already formed
              such exclusive control in these matters.
            Mr. MINICH. It has been suggested by some that the passage of this bill would
              interfere with a few mid wives, and drive them out of business. Now, Mr. Speaker, if
              those midwives are competent and qualified for the task of the lying-in room it will
              not interfere with them, but if they are not competent for the task then for the sake
              of--I was going to say for the sake of that sacred chamber of the lying-in room--for
              the sake of humanity let us wring off her neck. For if there is any responsibility
              resting on the profession in any of its branches, it is most certainly on the
              accoucher. I will admit that in ordinary cases the ordinary midwife may get along very
              well; but, sir, suppose sudden hemorrhage should set in then she is not equal to the
              emergency. Her patient bleeds to death for want of  timela aid. I myself have been called more than once in such cases, but so late as
              to see the crimson tide of life streaming over the floor, and the patient a corpse. My
              God! gentlemen, are you going to sit still in your seats and allow such barbarous
              practices to go on in your midst? Mr. Speaker, for my own part, I have no objection to
              female accouchers. Indeed, I do think that branch of the profession should belong to
              them exclusively ; but in the name of reason, in the name of humanity let them qualify
              themselves. The passage of this bill stops that hord of traveling robbers and quacks,
              (who can't make a living at home,) from going over the country robbing people, as is
              too often the case, of the last half dollar they have in the world. I have known
              persons who never studied medicine a day in their lives, to start out in search of
              consumptives, and humbug them out of the last red cent they had. Sir, I would vote to
              send such a man to the penitentiary as quick as I would for stealing a horse. You pass
              laws requiring labels to be placed on all dangerous drugs, etc.--why not label the
              quack?
            Another reason why this bill should pass, is because our sister States have all
              passed similar laws, and the result is that the scum is boiling over in these States
              with a set of illiterate renegades who could not fill the standard. These are daily
              coming into this State. You see by this they are ennobling the profession and raising
              its standard while in the same proportion it is being degraded and lowered here. The
              medical profession not only desires the passages of this bill, but the people demand
              its protection. The pride of our State demands it.
            After further debate by Messrs. Lines, Myles and Netherton,
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, moved to refer the bill again to the committee, with
              instructions to report an amendment to authorize a State Board of Examiners, one
              member to reside in each Congressional District, who shall license all medical
              practitioners, and be entitled therefor to a fee of $5 for each license.
            After further debate by Messrs. St. John, Washburn, Calkins of Porter, Minich,
              Ruddell, Gallentine and Davidson--
            The SPEAKER said. The practice of the Chair upon reports made by Committees has been
              that of putting the question on concurrence or non-concurrence. I am not clear that
              the ruling I have made is right; nor yet that it is wrong. The reading of the
              authorities is, that the receiving of a report is taken by consent, unless there is
              objection, and the report lies on the table. If the House accepts the action of the
              Committee, it becomes the action of the House. It may be that the motion of the
              gentleman from Porter, (Mr. Calkins) to recommit the bill with instructions, should be
              entertained.
            On motion of Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, Mr. Furnas obtained leave of absence on account
              of sickness.
            The House then took a recess till 2 o'lock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The House met at 2 o'clock.
            Mr. MONTGOMERY, (by unanimous consent) submitted an order to authorize the Doorkeeper
              to employ such additional force as may be necessary to abate nuisances at the
              entrances to the capitol building.
            On motion of Mr. ABBETT it was laid on the table.

            
              PHYSICIANS AND QUACKS.
              The House then resumed the consideration of Mr. Washburne's empiricism bill [H. R.
                147], the question being on Mr. Calkins, of Porter's,motion to recommit with
                instructions.
              Mr. Martin, of Putnam, proposed to amend by adding the following to the
                instructions : Provided that none of the provisions of this act shall apply to
                female physicians.
              So the subject was referred again to the special committee.
              Mr. McDONALD submitted an order for the discharge of one of the floor pages; and,
                after explanalion by the Speaker--
              Mr. SABIN (by unanimous consent) submitted the affidavit of Henry F. Leavit, of
                Steuben county, in relation to Humphrey Leavit, a patient of the Insane Hospital
                from said county; to the fact that $20 was furnished and received by the proper
                officer for the clothing of said patient, and other facts in relation to his
                treatment and escape; and, thereupon, he presented a preamble and resolution
                instructing the Committee on Scientific and Benevolent
                  Institutions to investigate the charges set forth in said affidavit,
                with powers to send for persons and papers.
              It was adopted.
              Mr. BROWNING submitted an order to allow the principal clerk $25 worth of
                stationery, in addition to that already allowed by the House.
              It was adopted.
              Mr. LINES called his bill, [H. R. 41,] to amend sections 3,18, and 26 of the law
                regulating descents and the apportionments of estates; and explaining its object at
                length, on his further motion, it was referred to the Committee on
                  Judiciary.
            
            
              TERRE HAUTE & INDIANAPOLIS R. R. CO.
              On motion of Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, the special order for the hour, viz: the
                consideration of his joint resolution authorising the Governor to prosecute the
                claim of the State against the Terre Haute R. R. Co., was taken up.
              Mr. MARTIN proposed to amend the joint resolution by way of substitute, so as to
                authorize the Governor to take the supervision of the suit against the Terre Haute
                Railroad Company, now pending in the Putnam Circuit Court, of the State against the
                Terre Haute Railroad Company, on the information of John C. Robertson, prosecutor,
                and prohibiting the Governor from, compromising the suit without the consent of the
                General Assembly.

              

              Mr. M. said he did not think this subject needs discussion; for every
                Representative and every citizen who has paid any attention to the matter
                understands that this Railroad Company justly owes the Education fund of the State a
                large sum of money, and the object of the joint resolution is to obtain it; and as
                there is a suit pending in the matter, he believed it the better way that the
                Governor be instructed to overlook the suit in question. The resolution of the
                Special Committee on this matter, appointed near the close of the last regular
                session, made as elaborate report, in which they state that this company justly owes
                the State a large sum of money.
              Mr. STEPHENSON. Do you remember the amount?
              Mr. MARTIN. The committee do not state the amount. Their report says a large
                amount.
              Mr. STEPHENSON. My remembrance is that it exceeded a million of dollars. The claim
                now demanded in the Putnam Circuit Couat, I am informed, is much less than that.
              Mr. BELLINGER called for the reading of the report of the Committee of the last
                regular session, and accordingly it was read by the Clerk with the names of the
                signers Messrs. Osborn, Gordon, McFadden, Neff and Coffroth.
              Mr. GORDON, of Boone, was not fully prepared to prosecute the suit against this
                railroad, commenced in the Putnam Circuit, by requiring the Governor to take charge
                of it; but was rather in favor of the original resolution. The report of the
                Committee of the last session was made up from the officers of the road and papers
                on file; and the evidence fully convinced us that if the law was not susceptible of
                a different construction from that which we put upon it, the Railroad Company was
                indebted to the State something over $1,200,000. I think it proper that the Governor
                should employ additional counsel, that the State may have what justly belongs to
                her. He did not know who was prosecuting in behalf of the State.
              Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam. John C. Robinson, and he is aided by Colonel Harrison and
                Judge Claypool. The complaint fills a column in the Sentinel, and it contains a
                claim, I believe, that the road has forfeited its charter.
              The debate was continued by Mr. Speaker Mack (Mr. Neff in the chair), Mr.
                Stephenson, Mr. Browning, Mr. Martin of Putnam, Mr. Ballenger, Mr. Neff, Mr. Calkins
                of Porter and Mr. Ruddell--which will appear in order in the appendix continuation
                of these reports.
              Mr. BROWNING submitted the following by way of substitute:
              Instruct the Attorney General to examine what amount, if anything, is due the
                School Fund from the Terre Haute and Indianapolis Railroad, and, if said road is not
                liable under existing laws, what legislation is necessary, if any, in order to
                enable the School Fund to recover the amount claimed by the School Fund, under the
                provisions of the charter of said road, and also what amount is due the State on
                account of the transportation of troops over said road during the late war, for
                which the road should not have been paid by the State.
              It was rejected by yeas, 5; nays, 82.
              Mr. CALKINS proposed to amend by striking out all of the substitute amendment
                except that which gives authority to the Governor to employ counsel.
              On motion of Mr. CAUTHORN, it was laid on the table.
              Mr. McDONALD moved in writing for an order that the whole matter be laid on the
                table, thereby leaving the prosecutor to attend to his business, as the law
                requires.
              The motion was rejected, and the question recurring on the adoption of Mr. Martin's
                substitute amendment, it was adopted.
              And then the joint resolution as amended was adopted without a division.
              The SPEAKER now resuming the Chair, (Mr. Wilson having just previously occupied
                it,)said: said he should have decided that the tabling of the amendment submitted by
                the gentleman from Whitley, (Mr. McDonald,) carried the whole subject with it.
              Mr. McDONALD submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that a standing
                  committee on Reformatory Institutions be appointed by the
                Speaker, to consist of seven members, to whom shall be referred all matters relating
                to the Reformatory for women and girls.
              On motion of Mr. MINICK, the several members of the committee on the Benevolent
                Institutions obtained leave of absence for tomorrow.
              Mr. SIMPSON moved, ineffectually, that the Committee on the State Prisons be
                authorized to employ a clerk.
              The SPEAKER laid before the House the report of the Trustees of the Wabash and Erie
                Canal.
              And then, at 5 o'clock, the House adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            THURSDAY, January 26, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A. M., the Lieutenant Governor in the chair.
          Prayer by Rev. F. C. Holliday, pastor of Roberts Park M. E. Church.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read.
          Pending which, Mr. FULLER made an ineffectual motion to dispense with the further
            reading thereof.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR laid before the Senate the reports of the Adjutant General, the
            Board of Commissioners of the Indiana Reformatory Institution, and the Trustee of the
            Wabash and Erie Canal, which were severally referred to appropriate committees.
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, &C.
            The following petitions were presented, and referred, under the rules, to appropriate
              committees:
            By Mr. HESS, praying for Prison Reform, the appointment of a Board of Supervisors,
              three of which shall be women, &c , &c.
            By Mr. HUBBARD, from the bar of St Joseph, praying for an increase of salaries of
              Judicial officers.
            By Mr. HADLEY, for an amendment of the game law.
            On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, it was ordered that the Senate proceed to the reading of
              bills by title for the purpose of reference.
            Mr. Dwiggin's bill [S. 43] to legalize the sale of certain seminary lands in Jasper
              county;
            Mr Carnahan's bill [S. 44] dividing the State into five Superior Court Districts;
            Mr. Glessner's bill [S. 4] to legalize the extention of plank and gravel roads;
            Mr. Fuller's bill [S. 46] to encourage the destruction of foxes and wild cats;
            Mr. Cave's bill [S 47] to repeal the dog laws;
            Mr. Beardsley's bill [S. 48] supplemental to the levee, dike and wet land act;
            Mr. Johnston's bill [S. 49] to amend the game law;
            Mr. Martindale's bill [S. 50] to establish superior Courts;
            Mr. Denbo's bill [S. 51] to regulate insurance companies.
            Mr Fuller's bill [S. 52] to regulate the entering of nolle
              prosequi;
            Mr. Bradley's bill [S. 53] authorizing trustees to sell real estate;
            Mr. Martindale's bill [S. 54] authorizing separate interests of married women;
            Mr. Beardsley's bill [S 55] amending section 2 of the property redemption act;
            Mr. Cave's bill [S 56] to amend section 30 of the supervisors' act;
            Mr. Gregg's bill [S. 57] concerning restraining orders:
            Mr. Beardsley's bill [S. 58] to amend an amendment of the Justice's act:
            Mr. Fuller's bill [S. 59] fixing a rate of interest on money;
            Mr. Martindale's bill[S 60] concerning bonds issued for school buildings, with
              amendment submitted by Mr Fosdick; and [S. 61] providing for the taxation of water
              work companies;
            Mr Brown's bill [S. 62] authorizing township aid to bridges;
            Mr. Denbo's bill [S. 63] to establish an Insurance Bureau;
            Mr Martindale's [S. 64] for the establishment of an Insurance Department;
            Mr. Bradley's bill [S. 65] to amend section 18 of the descent and apportionment
              law;
            Mr. Dittemore's bill [S. 66] to creat metropolitan police districts;
            Mr Beeson's bill [S. 67] amending the title of the licence act for caravans, shows,
              etc;
            Mr. Bradley's bill [S 68] to amend section 69 of the city incorporation laws;
            Mr. Hess's bill [ S. 69] authorizing plank and gravel roads to appropriate
              material;
            Mr Sarninghausen's bill [S. 70] to re-enact the registry law;
            Mr. Armstrong's bill [S. 71] fixing a rate of interests on judgments;
            Mr. Beeson's bill [S 72] to amend section 16 of the act supplemental to the law
              regulating the aliennation of real property;
            Mr. Caven's bill (S. 73] authorizing voluntary association organizations:
            Mr. Bradley's bill [S 74] to amend section 8 of the cemetery act of June 7, 1852;
            Mr. Martindale's bill [S. 75] on the publication of legal advertisements in daily
              papers;
            Mr. Fuller's bill [S. 76] amending the game laws;
            Mr. Fuller's bill [S. 76] amending the game laws.
            Mr. Sarninghausen's bill [S.77] in relation to holidays;
            Mr. Bradley's bill [S. 78] concerning Judges' compensation for extra service;
            Mr Armstrong's bill [S 79] authorizing cities and towns to appropriate gravel and
              stone;
            Mr Martindale's bill [S. 80] concerning appeals to the Supreme Court;
            Mr. Bradley's bill [S. 81] in regard to the 
              granting of injunctions and writs of habeas corpus.
            Mr. Johnston's bill [S. 82] legalizing donations by County Commissioners in aid of
              railroads;
            Mr. Carnahan's bill [S. 83] extending time for completion of railroads:
            Mr. Collett's bill [S. 84] for a new road improvement system:
            Mr Hamilton's bill [S. 85] fixing salaries of County officers;
            Mr Hughes' bill [S. 87] to provide for a treasury system;
            Mr Hughes' bill [S 88] making appropriations to the State University:
            Mr. Miller's bill [S 89] amending section 24 of the descent and apportionment of
              estates act:
            Mr. Taylor's bill [S. 90] amending the general city incorporation act:
            Mr. Wood's bill [S 91] amending section 561 of the general practice act:
            Mr. Green's bill [S. 93] providing for payment of claims for ditching swamp
              lands;
            Mr. Morgan's bill [S. 94] to prevent the changing of public roads:
            Mr. Beeson's bill [S. 95] amending section 10 of the Justices' act;
            Mr. Hamiliton's bill [S. 96] defining the offense of bribery;
            Mr. Henderson's bill [S. 97] supplemental to the road act;
            Mr. Andrews' bill [S. 98] to confirm trustees' sales of real estate;
            Mr. Bradley's bill [S. 99] concerning aliens holding real estate;
            Mr. Armstrong's bill [S 100] making parties to divorce suits competent witnesses;
            Mr Beardsley's bill [S. 101] amending section 5 of the common school law:
            Mr. Cave's bill [S. 102] amending section 47 of the highway law of June 17, 185 ;
            Mr Hubbard's bill [S. 103] amending section 3 of the act regulating attorneys' docket
              fees;
            Mr Dittemore's bill [S. 104] providing for the election of Asylum Trustees;
            Mr Taylor's bill [S. 106] to repeal the act authorizing aid to railroads;
            Mr. Scott's bill [S. 107] amending the normal school law;
            Were read by title only and severally referred to appropriate committees.
            Pending this order, when the bill, S. 66, was read by title
            Mr. DITTEMORE moved the reference of his Police Commissioners bill, [S. 66,] to the
                Standing Committee on Corporations.
            Mr. CAVEN made a motion to amend by changing the reference to a select committee of
              Senators regresenting counties containing cities having a population exceeding twenty
              thousand.
            Mr. DITTEMORE made an ineffectual motion that the amendment be laid on the
              table--yeas 21, nays 21--the Lieutenant Governor giving the casting vote in the
              negative.
            Mr. MARTINDALE insisted that the city of Indianapolis should be represented on the
              committee considering this bill--as it affects really no other city--Evansville having
              a special charter and therefore being independent of the measure.
            Mr. DITTEMORE gave notice of his intention to move that a Senator from Marion county
              be added to the committee.
            Mr. HUGHES thought this a fair compromise. It is better to pursue the usual course
              and send the bill to the Standing Committee.
            The motion to refer to the Committee on Corporations, was agreed
              to by yeas 23; nays 20.
            Mr. HUGHES moved that the Chair be authorized to name one of the Senators from Marion
              to act and vote in that committee during the consideration of this bill.
            Mr. HADLEY raised the point of order that the rules prohibit the increase of these
              committees beyond the number of seven.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR sustained the point of order and ruled the motion out of
              order.
            Pending the order for the reading of the titles of bills for reference The Senate
              took a recess till two o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at 2 o'clock P. M.
            Mr. ROSEBOROGH moved a call of the Senate.
            Mr. MARTINDALE demanded the yeas and nays.
            They were ordered, and being taken resulted--yeas 23, nays 18.
            So the motion was agreed to, and accordingly--
            A call of the Senate was made, and 43 Senators answered to their names.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR said he believed all were present except the Senator from
              Cass and those who have leaves of absence.
            On motion of Mr. DITTEMORE further proceedings under the call were dispensed
              with.
            
              THE FIFTEENTH AMENDMENT.
              Mr. HUGHES called up the special order for this hour--being his joint resolution
                [S. 7], introduced day before yesterday, concerning the so-called Fifteenth
                Amendment to the Constitution of the United States and its pretended ratification,
                and proposing a convention of the States to amend the constitution of the United
                States.
              The question being "shall the joint resolution pass?"
              Mr. HUGHES said: Mr. President. This resolution presents what I consider several
                questions of great importance. The resolu-lutions with the preamble contain within
                themselves a logical statement of the facts, which in itself in my opinion will be
                sufficient to commend it to every American citizen, especially to every citizen of
                Indiana. Therefore it is not necessary that it should be discussed at length. But
                other Senators may differ with me in that opinion, and I desire in the
                beginning--having no disposition to suppress discussion--to have some understanding
                as to the time to be consumed in that way.
              Afrer some conversation across the Chamber between Mr. Gray, Mr. Hughes and Mr.
                Hooper
              Mr. HUGHES said: Mr. President. We have a great deal of business on the files. It
                would afford me great pleasure to address the Senate upon these resolutions at this
                time, but if Senators on the other side of the House feel satisfied with the case as
                it stands now I shall move the reference of the resolutions to the
                  Committee on Federal Re- 
                  lations, and on that motion I ask the previous question.
              The Senate seconded the demand for previous question, and--
              On motion by Mr. HUGHES it was referred to the Committee on Federal
                  Relations.
            
            
              WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
              The Senate returned to the consideration of the order pending at the time of the
                recess for dinner, viz: the reading of the titles of bills for reference to
                committees.
              Mr. Morgan's bill, [S 108], to define bribery:
              Mr. Wood's bill, [S 109] supplemental to the act concerning enclosures, trespassing
                animals, &c;
              Mr. Sarninghausen's bill, [S. 110], amending section 8 of the general city
                incorporation law;
              Mr. Hadley's bill, [S. 111], to provide for a more extended system of
                education;
              Mr. Fuller's bill, [S. 112 ] to provide for the election of Commissioners for
                benevolent institutions of the State;
              Mr. Taylor's bill, [S. 113], authorizing suits to be brought in partnership's
                names;
              Mr. Bradley's bill, [S. 114], for the acquisition by the United States of certain
                lands in this State;
              Mr. William's bill [S. 116] authorising the Auditor and Secretary of State to
                organize the General Assembly;
              Mr. William's bill [S. 115] to distribute the swamp land fund;
              Mr. Sarninghausen's bill [S. 117] authorizing cities to sell real estate;
              Mr. Dougherty's bill [S. 118] amending section 17 of the act organizing county
                boards;
              Mr. Glessner's bill [S. 119] supplemental to the gravel road law;
              Mr. Collett's bill [S. 120] for the relief of Sam'l B. Davis;
              Mr. Carnahan's bill [S. 121] to amend section 7 and 49 of the decedent estates
                act;
              Mr. Armstrong's bill [S. 122] to abolish grand juries;
              Mr. Cave's bill [S. 123] regulating docket fees of District Attorneys;
              Mr. Denbo's bill [S. 124] amending section 97 and 98 of the school law;
              Mr. Hamilton's bill [S. 125] to amend the sidewalk and shade tree law;
              Mr. Dougherty's bill [S. 126] to limit the amount allowed by courts to
                attorneys.
              Mr. Beeson's bill [S 127] to amend the fish law;
              Mr. Morgan's bill [S. 128] amending sections 349 and 350 of the practice act;
              Were severally read by title only, and referred to appropriate committees.
            
            
              NOTRE DAME DU LAC.
              Mr. BROWN, by leave, introduced a bill [S. 130] to amend the charter of the
                University of Notre Dame Du Lac, at South Bend, to increase the amount of property
                held by said institution from $30,000 to $300,000, which was read the first time and
                passed to the second reading.
            
            
              TAXATION OF RAILROADS.
              Mr. HADLEY (by leave) introduced a bill [S. 131] supplemental to the act to provide
                for the taxation of railroads and to amend sections 5 and 8 of the act approved
                December 18, 1865, which was read the first time and passed to the second
                reading.
            
            
              NEWSPAPERS.
              Mr. HUGHES submitted a resolution for a subscription for one extra copy of the
                Daily Sentinel and the DAILY JOURNAL, provided they print a correct account of the
                proceedings of this Legislature, and a fair and full abstract of the debates from
                day to day, reserving the right to the Senate to discontinue said papers, or either
                of them, at any time.
              On motion, by Mr. SCOTT the resolution was referred to the Committee on
                  Printing [with an amendment submitted by Mr. Martindale] for the purpose
                of inquiring whether this additional paper will be sufficient to accomplish the
                purpose which the resolution intends.
            
            
              NEW PROPOSITIONS.
              The following bills were introduced, read the first time, and passed to the second
                reading :
              By Mr. WOOD, a bill [S. 138] to amend sections 1, 3 and 7, of am act authorizing
                the assessment of lands for plank, gravel, and macadamizing road purposes.
              By Mr. FULLER, a bill [S. 133] declaring any person who is in the habit of becoming
                intoxicated incapable of holding any office of trust or profit in this State.
              By Mr. DENBO, a bill [S. 134] supplementary to the act regulating the appointment
                of Supervisors of Highways.
              By Mr. DOUGHERTY, a bill [S. 135] prescribing the manner of advertising sheriff's
                sales.
              By Mr. WOOD, a bill, [S. 136] to fix the time of holding Circuit Courts in the 8th
                Judicial Circuit--affecting the counties of Fountain, Montgomery, Boone, Clinton,
                and Warren.
              He moved that the Constitutional restriction be dispensed with.
              The vote thereon resulting yeas, 29; nays, 3 no quorum voting--
              On motion by Mr. DITTEMORE, a call of the Senate was ordered and taken which
                discovered 34 Senators present and answering to their names.
              Mr. DITTEMORE made an ineffectual motion to lock the doors and send for
                absentees.
              Mr. FOSDICK made an ineffectual motion--yeas, 24; nays, 12--that the Senate
                adjourn.
              On motion, it was--
              Ordered that when the Senate adjourn it be till 2 o'clock to-morrow.
            
            
              HOUSE BILLS ON THE SECOND READING.
              The bill [H. R. 3] fixing the times of holding courts in the Third Judicial
                Circuit, was read the second time and passed to the third reading.
              The bill [H. R., 2] to amend section 4 and 6 of the act prescribing the rights,
                powers, and duties of Coroners, being read the second time--
              Mr. DENBO explained that the object of this bill was to reduce the number of
                Coronor's Jury from twelve to six.
              It was passed to the third reading.
              The bill [H. R. 11] fixing the beginning of the terms of the Common Pleas Courts in
                Dearborn county, was read the second time and passed to the third reading.
              The bill [H. R. 10] to amend section 1 of an act amending section 43 of the act
                con-  cerning descedents estates, approved
                February 19,1869, was read the second time and passed to the third reading.
              And then the Senate adjourned till 2 o'clock P. M. to-morrow.
              Below is a copy of Mr. Steele's bill, [S. 86] rejected by the Senate yesterday, on
                its first reading:
              A BILL to protect the Wabash and Erie Canal and the tolls and revenues thereof from
                sale or squestration for the satisfaction of any lien anterior in point of date to
                the transfer of said Canal to the Trustees in 1847.
              WHEREAS,There are still outstanding certain Wabash and Erie Canal Bonds and certain
                Internal Improvement Bonds issued by the State prior to the year 1841, and which
                have never been surrendered by the holders under the legislation of 1846 and 1847,
                commonly called the Butler Bill; and,
              WHEREAS, A suit has been commenced in the Circuit Court of Carroll county, in this
                State, by John W. Garrett, against the Trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal, and
                also against the present owners of other public works formerly owned by the State,
                for the purpose of enforcing an alleged lien which the said Garrett insists the
                holders of said bonds have to secure the payment, thereof on said canal, or on some
                part thereof, and on said other public works, said suit being brought by said Garret
                as one of the holders of said bonds, as well for his own benefit as for the benefit
                of all others holding similar bonds and standing in the same relations; and whereas
                the State not being a party to said litigation can not exercise the right of appeal
                if a judgment or decree should be rendered in laid suit, or in any other suit
                hereafter to be brought for the same purpose, affirming the existence of said lien
                and subjecting the said canal or its tolls and revenues to the payment of said bonds
                or any of them, therefore,
              SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, That it
                shall be lawful for the Governor of the State to cause the State to be made a party
                to the said action now pending in the Carroll Circuit Court, or to any other suit
                that may hereafter be brought in said court or in any other court, by any of the
                holders of said Wabash and Erie Canal bonds or of said Internal Improvement bonds
                for the purpose enforcing the alleged lien of said bonds against said canal or its
                tolls and revenues, or against any part of said canal or the tolls and revenues
                thereof; and upon the application of the Governor the court in which such action is
                or may be pending shall admit the State as party to said action for the purpose of
                defending said canal, its tolls and revenues, against such alleged lien and against
                the enforcement thereof, as well as to assert the State's right to redeem said bonds
                in the event that they should be decreed to be a lien on said canal or any part
                thereof, or on its tolls and revenues; and the State after being: made a party to
                such action shall have the right to make any defence to said alleged lien or to the
                enforcement thereof against said canal or its revenues that the Trustees may or
                might do; but under no circumstances shall any court by virtue of the State having
                become a party to any such action have or assume jurisdiction to render any personal
                or pecuniary judgment against the State for any amount under any pretence whatever;
                and the State having become a party to any action contemplated by this section shall
                have the same right of appeal from any judgment decreeing the existence and
                enforcement of such alleged lien as the said Trustees might exercise.
              SECTION 2. It shall be the duty of the Governor to employ an attorney or attorneys
                to defend said action pending in said Carroll Circuit Court, or any other action
                which may be brought for the same purpose, and if a judgment or decree should be
                rendered therein against said Trustees of said Canal subjecting the same or any part
                thereof, or the tolls and revenues of said canal or any part thereof, to the payment
                of said bonds or any or either of them, then it shall be the duty of the Governor to
                prosecute such appeal or appeals or writs of error as may be necessary to procure a
                decision in the Court of last resort.
              Section 3. If at any time when the General Assembly is not in session it shall so
                happen, that there shall have been a decree rendered in said suit now pending as
                aforesaid, or in any other action which may hereafter be commenced or prosecuted for
                the same purpose; and such decree shall provide for subjecting said canal, or its
                tolls and revenues, to the payment of said bonds or any part thereof; and if the
                Governor shall have exhausted on behalf of the State the right to appeal, as before
                declared in this act, and the said canal shall be in danger of being sold, or its
                tolls and revenues sequestered, for the purpose of satisfying such bonds or decree;
                then and in that case, and to prevent such a result, it shall be lawful for the
                Governor, Secretary, Auditor, and Treasurer of State, to draw from the Treasury a
                sufficient sum of money to satisfy such decree, or so much thereof as will protect
                said canal and its tolls and revenues from being subjected to the payment of such
                decree, and the money which may be thus drawn from the Treasury shall be applied as
                above indicated, and to no other purpose whatever, and no more money shall be thus
                drawn from the Treasury than shall be absolutely necessary for the purpose aforesaid
                ; and if there shall not be a sufficient sum of money in the Treasury, not otherwise
                appropriated, to enable said officers of State to carry out the requirements of this
                section, the said officers of State are authorized to make a temporary loan on
                behalf of the State, payable within forty days from and after the commencement of
                the next succeeding session of the General Assembly, for such sum as will enable
                them to carry out the provisions of this section.
              SECTION 4. An emergency is hereby de-  clared
                to exist for the immediate taking effect of this act, wherefore the same shall take
                effect and be in force from and after its passage.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            THURSDAY, January 26, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.--the order of prayer by the Rev. Dr. Andrus.
          A message from the Governor transmitted the report for the Reformatory of Women and
            Girls.
          The journal of yesterday was read and approved, till--
          On motion of Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, the further reading was dispensed.
          
            TERRE HAUTE AND INDIANAPOLIS RAILROAD COMPANY.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, called attention to the fact that the final vote adopting his
              joint resolution authorizing the Governor to supervise the suit of the State against
              the Terre Haute Railroad Company pending in the 6th circuit for claims against said
              company, was taken without the yeas and nays.
            Mr. McDONALD (by consent) said he was opposed to this matter on principle. The law
              fixes the duty of this circuit prosecutor, and I have no doubt that with his
              assistants in this case his duty will be performed, and that this legislation is
              unnecessary, I am opposed to making Governor Baker a kind of king to supervise this
              matter. As a Democrat I am in favor of holding every man to his official
              responsibilities. Therefore I am in favor of this prosecutor prosecuting this case to
              final judgment.
            Mr. GUTHRIE, (by unanimous consent,) said he desired this question to be settled. He
              was personally acquainted with this prosecutor, John C. Robinson, and had in him the
              utmost confidence. He indulged no feeling of jealousy as to the course which might be
              taken in the case by Gov. Baker. The Governor was an energetic man, and he would like
              to fix responsibility on the part of those engaged in this prosecution. If the
              railroads owes the State anything let them pay it, otherwise let the matter be
              decided, he people were tired of being humbuged in this matter.
            Mr. WALKER, (by consent) The people of Clay county generally, if not unanimously, are
              satisfied that this Railroad Company owes the State a large amount of money,and that
              it ought to be paid. As to the prosecutor for the Sixth Circuit, the people of Clay
              have but little confidence in. And he was in favor of the joint resolution because he
              wanted some good responsible man (without regard to his political views) to urge this
              matter to the judgment.
            Mr. WILSON rose to a question of order- understanding from the journal that this
              resolution was adopted yesterday, this is simply a question on correcting the journal,
              and it is not debatable.
            The SPEAKER. The point is well taken.
            The vote on the adoption of the joint resolution as amended, was then ordered and
              taken, resulting--yeas, 58; nays, 25, as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Ballenger. Beeler.Biggs, Butterworth,
                    Calkins of Fulton, Cauthorn, Conner, Cox, Davidson, Friedley, Gentry, Goble,
                    Gordon of Boone. Guthrie, Hardin. Hartley Heilman, Henderson, Hendry, Hill,
                    Hooker, Kennedy, Kirkpatrick. Knight, Lines, Major, Martin of Wayne. Martin of
                    Putnam, McDowell, McFarland. Millikan, Mitchell, Monroe, Myers, Neff, Netherton,
                    Rhodes, Ruddell, Sabin, Sansberry, Sayers, Shoenemann, Simpson, Shutt,
                    Snodgrass, Stanley, Stephenson. St. John, Stone, Taughinbaugh, Walker, Washburn,
                    Warrum, Wilson, Wymer, Wood and Woodard--58,
                  NAYS--Messrs. Britton, Browning, Bruner, Caldwell,
                    Coggswell, Cunningham, Defrees, Donham, Galletine,Gordon of Cass, Hawley.
                    Haynes, ham, Gallentine, Gordon of Cass, Hawley, Haynes, Hynes, Logan, McDonald,
                    Minnick, Miles, Montgomery, Rawles, Rice, Stephens, Tarlton, Tebbs, White,
                    Zenor, and Mr. Speaker--25.
                
              
            
          
          
            THE INDIANAPOLIS DAILY JOURNAL.
            Mr. SIMPSON asked and obtained unanimous consent to offer a resolution to expel the
              Indianapolis Daily Journal from the House of Representatives for the
              publication in its issue of this day of a gross libel upon this body, and for
              malicious slander and outrageous lying upon members thereof. As a member of the press
              himself he was free to admit the right of the editor of the Journal
              to express his opinions freely on the public acts of this body and of any member
              thereof but he would brand it as utter scoundrelism in any man to take such advantage
              of his position as an editor to deliberately insult the Speaker and all the members of
              the Indiana House of Representatives, and he desired it to be distinctly understood
              that he is personally responsible for all his utterances in this matter here and
              elsewhere. He then read the article in the first column in the editorial this morning,
              commencing with these words: "The disgraceful scenes that have recently been enacted
              in the Indiana House of Representatives deserve public condemnation;"charging
              "obscenity and black-guardism" upon some of the members in the proceedings of Tuesday
              afternoon- complaining of the presiding officer, because he allowed the outbreak of
              vulgarity to proceed unchecked, and alleging that this was consistent with his conduct
              in the Joint Convention on Friday last to hear the Woman's Rights memorial "in the
              perpetration of a joke too filthy to be put in print."
            Mr. BALLENGER moved to amend the resolution by substituting a proposition to expel
              the Republican members.
            Mr. McDONALD proposed to substitutes proposition like the following: That unless the
              managers of the Journal shall retract that scurrilous article in
              regard to the preceedings of this House on the 25th inst, and the uncalled for
              strictures on the honorable Speaker, this House will exclude the Journal from the desks of its members.
            The SPEAKER hoped the House would take no action in the matter on account of any
              thing so far as he was concerned. He simply asked the gentleman, from Whitley to
              withdraw it.

            

            Mr. McDONALD was perfectly willing that that portion of the resolution should be
              withdrawn. But now, as this editor says he received his information from a Democrat
              and he unwittingly put it in print--it is human to err, but angelic to forgive. If I
              go to my neighbor who has done me wrong and tell him of it, and he retracts, he has
              done his duty. But if it is not in accordance with the feelings of the Speaker, I
              cheerfully withdraw it.
            Mr. SIMPSON moved to lay the amendment on the table.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, admitted the right of the House to exclude this paper,and
              balanced the demand to exclude it against the people's demand for the proceedings of
              the General Assembly published in it.
            Mr. McDOWELL. Do you approve of that article?
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone. I do not. The language of the article does injustice to the
              House, yet he was willing to say that there were somethings in the House not
              becoming.
            Mr. SIMPSON. Will the gentleman be kind enough to designate the members by me?
            Mr. NEFF. These charges seem to be in reference to things which took place here last
              Tuesday--the Bird bill--but I am satisfied that this article has reference to our
              discussion yesterday.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone. My understanding is that it refers to the proceedings of last
              Friday--when the women introduced their woman suffrage memorial. I am free to say that
              there was no ground for the JOURNAL'S article in the proceedings of yesterday.
            After a wide range of debate by Messrs, Britton, Simpson, Ruddell, Neff, Wilson,
              Browning, Friedley, Woodard, Hawley, Davidson, Briggs, Sansberry and Stone--
            Mr. Stone proposed to substitute the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That this body has seen with regret an article in
                    this morning's JOURNAL reflecting severely upon its principal officer and
                    members. Said article is untrue, and as it perported to be from information
                    derived from a Democrat of this city we hereby declare the same untrue and
                    uncalled for, and as a matter of right ask said paper to retract the article
                    referred to.
                
              
            
            Messrs. Kennedy, Ballenger, Neff, Netherton, Miles, Mitchell, and Henderson followed.
              When--
            The question was then taken on Mr. Biggs' motion that the further consideration of
              this subject be postponed, and that it be made the special order for to-morrow at 3
              o'clock p.m., resulting yeas 36, nays 54--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messr Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Calkins of Fulton,
                    Calkins of Porter, Conner, Cunningham, Defrees, Deputy, Gordon of Boone,
                    Heilman, Hendry, Hill, Holland, King, Kirkpatrick, Lines. Major, Martin of
                    Wayne, Martin of Putnam, Millikan, Monroe, Myers, Netherton, Rawles, Ray,
                    Rhodes, Ruddell, Snodgrass, Stephenson, St. John, Washburn, White, Wilson, Wymer
                    and Wood--36.
                  NAYS--Messrs Abbett, Britton, Browning, Barnaby, Bruner,
                    Butterworth, Caldwell, Cauthorn, Coggswell, Cox, Davidson, Donham, Friedley,
                    Gallentine, Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Case, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Hawley,
                    Haynes, Henderson, Hynes, Kennedy, Knight, Logan, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland,
                    McGowan, Minnick, Miles, Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff, Oatley, Rice, Sabin,
                    Sansberry, Sayers, Simpson, Shutt, Stanley, Stephens, Stone, Tarlton,
                    Taughingbaugh, Tebbs, Walker, Warrum, Woodward, Zenor, and Mr. Speaker--57.
                
              
            
            So Mr. Biggs' motion was rejected; and the question recurred on Mr. Davidson's
              substitute--heretofore offered and accepted by Mr. Simpson, as follows:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the article in the Indianapolis DAILY JOURNAL
                    of this date, reflecting upon the conduct of members of this House and the
                    Speaker thereof, charging them with obscenity and blackguardism, is false in
                    fact, malicious in spirit, an insult to this legislative body, and deserves its
                    unqualified condemnation.
                
              
            
            Mr. CAUTHORN. The amendment offered by the gentleman from Tippecanoe suits me with
              the exception of a few words. I move to amend by striking out the words "malicious in
              spirit." I am satisfied with simply branding the article as false in fact.
            VOICES, "question" "question."
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, desired to know what has become of the substitute offered by
              the gentleman from Randolph (Mr. Stone.)
            Mr. Stone's substitute was then read again and withdrawn.
            Messrs. MINICK and WILSON demanded the previous question on Mr. Cauthorn's amendment,
              and under the pressure thereof it was adopted under division--affirmative 61, negative
              not counted.
            The question recurring on Mr. Davidson's substitute as accepted and amended, and the
              yeas and nays being demanded, ordered and taken thereon, resulted yeas 83, nays 9--as
              follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Bellenger, Beeler, Britton, Brownning,
                    Barnaby, Bruner, Butterworth, Caldwell, Calkins of Fulton, Calkins of Porter,
                    Cawthorn, Coggswell, Connor, Cox, Curtis, Davidson, Defreees, Deputy, Donham,
                    Friedley, Galletine, Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Boone, Gordon of Cass Guthrie,
                    Hardin, Hartley. Hawley, Haynes, Heilman, Henderson, Hendry, Hill, Hooker,
                    Hynes, Kennedy, King, Knight, Lines, Logan. Major. Martin of Wayne, Martin of
                    Putnam. McDonald, McFarland, McGowon, Minich, Miles, Millikan, Mitchell, Monroe,
                    Montgomery, Myers, Neff, Rawles, Ray, Rice, Ruddell, Sabin, Sansberry,
                    Shoenemann, Shutt, Snodgrass, Stanley, Stephens, Stephenson, St. John. Tarlton,
                    Taughinbaugh, Tebbs, Walker, Washburn, Warrum, Wilson, Wymer, Wood, Woodward,
                    Zenor and Mr. Speaker--83.
                  NAYS--MESSRS Biggs, Cunningham, Kirkpatrick, McDowell,
                    Netherton. Oatley, Rhodes, Sayers, Simpson, Stone and White--11.
                
              
            
            Mr. ABBETT, explaining his vote, said: I vote aye, under a solemn protest. I would
              have much preferred the expulsion.
            Mr. BALLENGER. I vote aye on the proposition, though it is much stronger than I could
              wish.
            Mr. BRITTON. I vote aye, but would like it stronger.
            Mr. BROWNING. Though voting in the affirmative, I would have much preferred the
              original resolution.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH. I vote aye, because I believe the terms of the resolution are
              right.
            Mr. COX. I shall vote aye on this propo- 
              sition, but I do not think it half strong enough.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM. The action of the press should be free. It is safe and proper for all
              public journals to make their own reflection on all public men. The public can see for
              themselves whether this journal has acted becomingly. I simply wish to refer it to the
              public. I do not vote to censure any paper. I vote "no."
            Mr. GALLENTINE. I vote "aye," though I think it is not the best course. It is perhaps
              the best we can do, and I am willing to be liberal.
            Mr. GORDON, of Cass. I vote "aye" because the Republicans have shown the right
              spirit.
            Mr. McDonald's explanation was not heard.
            Mr. MITCHELL. I think the object here is already accomplished.
            Mr. NETHERTON. Believing the proposed censure is not justified by the facts, I vote
              "no."
            Mr. OATLEY. I think the slander was made maliciously; therefore I vote "no."
            Mr. Sansberry's explanation was not heard.
            Mr. SIMPSON. I accepted the amendment of the gentleman from Tippecanoe; but I can by
              no means indorse the amdenment offered by the gentleman from Know. I vote "no."
            Mr. ST. JOHN. I shall vote in favor of this resolution; and I desire here to bear my
              testimony to the uniform kindness and desire to do right evinced on the part of the
              honorable gentleman that presides over this House. I am happy to bear this testimony,
              and I believe there is no Republican here who does not endorse the words I now speak.
              I vote "aye."
            Mr. WALKER. I vote aye under a solemn protest. I would much rather have seen the
              paper expelled from the House.
            Mr. WHITE. I very much like the spirit evinced by the honorable Speaker to-day. As to
              the newspaper there is a better mode of redress than expulsion. I vote "no."
            Mr. Zenor's explanation was not heard.
            So the resolution was adopted.
            Mr. BALLENGER submitted the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, as follows, to-wit: Let us now have peace.
                
              
            
            [Laughter "Consent."]
            The SPEAKER announced the Committee on the Reformatory, Messrs.
              McGowin, Woodard, Abbett, Monroe, Conner.
            Leaves of absence were granted till Monday as follows: To the Committee on
                Education and the Committee on Prisons.
            Mr. Biggs and Mr. Martin, of Wayne, were added to the Committee on Education, Mr.
              Sansberry to the Committee on Insurance, and Mr. St. John to the Committee on
              Corporations.
            On motion of Mr. Cauthorn, the bill [S. 39] amendatory of the act accepting the
              provisions of the act of Congress granting public lands for Agricultural Colleges so
              that the State Board of Agriculture may be represented by three members on the Board
              of Trustees of the Purdue University, was taken up and passed the final reading in the
              House of Representatives yeas 79, nays 7.
            The House then took a recess till two o'clock P. M.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Speaker resumed at 2 o'clock P. M. and announced the order of the call by
              counties for bills, resolution, &c.
            Mr. ABBETT introduced a bill, [H. R. 158] for an act to preserve the peace, and
              prescribing a penalty for the violation thereof.
            Mr. TAUGHINBAUGH, [H. R. 159,] to amend section 1 of an act entitled an act for
              laying out and vacating streets, alleys, public squares, etc.
            Mr. GORDON of Boone, [H. R. 160,]for an act to amend section 1 of an act entitled an
              act to amend an act, providing for the election or appointment of Supervisors of
              Highways and prescribing their duties, etc.
            Mr. BROWNING submitted a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                Committee on the Organization of Courts to inquire into the
              expediency of so amending the laws as not to require witnesses to attend Court on the
              first day of the term.
            Mr. B. also introduced the following bills for--
            Mr. MINICH: [H. R. 161] for an act to regulate the amount to be paid for publishing
              notices required by law to be published.
            Mr. MINICH: [H. R. 162] for an act to amend sections 2 and 6 of the act providing for
              a geological survey and the preservation of a geological and mineralogical cabinet.
              [It appropriates $8,000.] Referred to the Committee on
              Agriculture.
            Mr. BARNABY: [H. R. 163], for an act to regulate insurance companies.
            He also introduced a joint resolution for an appropriation of $500, to be divided
              between two United States fire engine companies of Jeffersonville, for losses
              sustained by them while serving at the late fire in the State Prison South.
            The SPEAKER announced the appointment of Mr. Gordon, of Boone, as a member of the
                Committee on Claims in the place of Mr. Henderson.
            Mr.CALDWELL: [H. R. 164], for an act to regulate the forfeiture of life insurance
              policies.
            Mr. ABBETT [H. R. 165] for an act to legalize the proceedings of officers in listing
              lots of lands for plank, McAdamized and gravel road purposes, under the provision of
              the act of March 7,1867, for assessing lands under 1 1/2 miles, under the provisions
              of the act of May 12, 1852, providing that the lands are situated in the same county
              with such roads; also under the provisions of the acts of March 11, 1867, and May 14,
              1869, and to repeal both of said acts.
            Mr. HAYNES [H. R. 166], for an act to simplify the mode of doing county business,
              providing for the fees and salaries of county officers, providing books and papers,
              and repealing all laws conflicting therewith.

            

            Mr. TEBBS [H. R. 167], for an act to amend sections 1 and 2 of the act to create the
              Twenty-sixth Judicial Circuit, fixing the times of holding courts therein, and fixing
              the times of holding the courts in the Fourth Judicial Circuit.
            Mr. RICE [H. R. 268], for an act to apprehend fugitives from justice coming into this
              State from foreign States.
            Mr. GOBLE [H. R. 169], for an act to provide for County Boards of Education for
              common school purposes. [The Township Trustee and County School Examiners to
              constitute said board.]
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, [H. R. 170] for an act to amend section 18 of the act
              concerning the partition of lands, approved May 2, 1852.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, [H. R. 171], for an act to provide for proceedings
              supplemental to the execution before Justices of the Peace, being supplemental to the
              Justice's act of June 9,1852, [giving the Justices jurisdiction in supplemental cases
              beyond the execution.]
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, H. R. 172, for an act to amend the 156th section of the civil
              practice and procedure act of June 18, 1852, being supplemental thereto. Where the
              debtor has sold or is about to sell property with fraudulent intent the creditor may
              bring an action on his claim before it is due.
            Mr. ST. JOHN, H. R. 173 for an act to fix the times of the Circuit Court and the
              length of the terms thereof in the counties comprising the Seventh Judicial Circuit of
              the State.
            
              ASSISTANT DOORKEEPERS.
              The SPEAKER introduced a question as to the per diem of the assistants of the
                Doorkeeper, which resulted in an order adopted--
              On motion of Mr. NEFF, that the Doorkeeper and his First Assistant shall receive $5
                per day, and the other assistants of the Doorkeeper $3 per day.
              Mr. HENDRY [H. R. 174] for an act declaring certain property belonging to municipal
                fire companies exempt from execution.
              Mr. BRUNER--[H. R. 175] for an act to authorize the formation of voluntary fire
                insurance associations, defining their powers and prescribing their duties.
            
            
              NEWSPAPEBS.
              He also submitted a resolution, which was adopted by consent, instructing the
                Doorkeeper to notify the publishers of the daily papers ordered for the use of
                members to have their papers in the postoffice of the House of Representatives by 8
                o'clock A. M. the day of publication.
              Mr. DEPUTY, [H. R. 176], for an act to amend the seventh section of an act
                authorizing the assessment of lands for plank, macadam and gravel road purposes,
                approved March 11, 1867, and May 14, 1869.
              Mr. BIGGS, [H. R. 177], for an act defining what counties shall constitute the 2lst
                Common Pleas District, and fixing the times of holding Courts therein, [Fulton,
                Kosciusko and Wabash.]
              Mr. CAUTHORN--[H. R. 178], for an act to amend the 51st section of a general city
                incorporation act of March 14, 1867.
              Mr. FRIEDLEY--[H. R. 179], for an act to amend section 412 of the civil practice
                act of June 18, 1852.
              Mr. SANSBERRY [H. R. 180], for an act relative to the disabilities of Circuit Court
                Judges to hold and discharge the duties of their Courts, and to provide for the
                appointment of Judges pro tem. [In cases of incompetency for nine
                consecutive months the Governor shall appoint.]
              Mr. SANSBERRY and Mr. RUDDELL presented petitions, which were referred without
                reading.
              Mr. RUDDELL [H. R. 181], for an act providing for the investment of money belonging
                to the Sinking Fund. Its consideration was made the special order for Tuesday, at 3
                o'clock.
              Mr. WILSON--[H. R. 183], for an act to enable cities to aid in the construction of
                railroads.
              Mr. RUDDELL-[H. R. 183], for an act authorizing cities, towns and townships to
                negotiate loans for school building purposes.
              Mr. WILSON presented the claim of The People newspaper for
                newspapers furnished by order of the House.
              Mr. GALLENTINE, [H. R. 184], for an set to exempt the homestead from forced sale,
                and regulating proceedings under executions. [Exemption 40 acres--or the town lot
                and the buildings thereon, not exceeding $1,500 in value.
            
            
              THE JUDICIARY SYSTEM.
              Mr. STEPHENS submitted the following:
              
                
                  
                    WHEREAS, The present system of the judiciary of the State
                      of Indiana, and particularly so much of said system as provides for the
                      settlement of matters of probate as is expensive and ineffecient; and,
                    WHEREAS, The best interests of the people of the State
                      requires a revision of the present system of judiciary, and the abolition of
                      the Court of Common Pleas as now established by law; and,
                    WHEREAS, The proper attention to the preparation of a
                      system meeting the wants of the people in this particular can not be bestowed
                      by any committee composed of members of this General! Assembly; therefore,
                    Be it Resolved by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
                        the Senate concurring, That the following three attorneys of the State
                      to-wit, be and are hereby appointed a commission to devise a more economical
                      system of judiciary for the State, including the abolition of the various
                      Courts of Common Pleas and such other inferior courts as may be necessary, and
                      the establishment of a uniform and less expensive system of courts for the
                      settlement of decedent's estates and matters pertaining thereto, and that said
                      commission report a bill for that purpose to the present session of this
                      General Assembly.
                  
                
              
              It was adopted.
              Messrs. Britton and Copner obtained leave of absence till Monday.
              Mr. COX, [H. R. 185], for an act for the relief of George L. Rider and Maria P.
                Rider, of Miami county, Indiana, heirs of Eva Margaretta Rider.
              Mr. MAJOR, [H. R. 186] for an act to amend the first section of an act to enable
                incorporated towns to lay out and improve streets and alleys and make surveys and
                plats where the same have been destroyed.

              

              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, [H. R. 187], for an act to amend sections 3 and 10 of
                chapter 173, of the act providing for the election, and prescribing certain duties
                of county surveyors, approved March 5, 1852.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, [H. R. 188], for an act to provide for appeals in certain
                cases from the action of county boards of equalization [to the Circuit Court.]
              Mr. HINES: [H. R. 189], for an act to amend section 7 of the common school law.
              Mr. Hines [H. R. 190] for an act to amend section 30 of an act providing for the
                election or appointment of supervisors, &c.
              Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, presented a petition signed by a large number of citizens of
                Hendricks county, asking for the enactment of a law for the appointment of a Board
                of Supervisors of prisons, of which three shall be women.
              He also offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the Committee
                  on Printing to investigate the charges for the Public printing
                heretofore made, and report if, in their judgment, legislation thereon is
                necessary.
              Mr. STONE presented two petitions on the subject of temperance.
              Mr. STONE [H. R. 191] for an act supplemental to an act regulating partition in
                cases of bastardy and providing for the support of the child.
              Mr. HARTLEY offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                  Committee on Elections to enquire into the expediency of so
                amending the election laws that the township officers may be elected every two years
                in the month of April.
              Mr. KENNEDY submitted a resolution directory to the Committee on Benevolent
                Institutions, which was referred without reading.
              Mr. KENNEDY--[H. R. 192] for an act vacating streets and alleys when not used for
                twenty years.
              Mr. KENNEDY--[H. R. 193] for an act to amend and supplemental to an act to provide
                for the opening, vacating and changing of highways, approved March 9, 1861.
              Mr. MYLES, [H. R. 194,] for an act to amend section 7 of the act repealing section
                2 to 17, 19, 20, 21, 22 of the Registry law of March 11, 1867, approved May 13,
                1879.
              Mr. HAWLEY offered a resolution that when the House adjourn to-day it shall be till
                Monday, 2 o'clock P. M., and that all leaves of absence be extended till Tuesday the
                31st of January.
              On motion of Mr. NEFF, it was laid on the table.
              Mr. ----- ----- offered a resolution, which was referred to the Committee
                  on County and Township Business, instructing said committee to consider
                the propriety of a bill reducing the number of Justices of the Peace and the number
                to one in each township of the State.
              Messrs. Wimer and Gordon, of Cass, obtained leaves of absence till Monday.
              And then, at 4:50, the House adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            FRIDAY, January 27, 1871.
          
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR commanded order at 2 o'clock P. M.
          Prayers were offered by Rev. HENRY DAY, pastor of the First Baptist Church. The
            Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were being read when--
          On motion of Mr. WADGE the further reading thereof were dispensed with.
          
            MESSAGES AND REPORTS.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR laid before the Senate a report from the Trustees of the
              Indiana Normal School; also, a message from the Governor transmitting papers in
              relation to the late Immigration Convention held in this city.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR also laid before the Senate a paper from the Governor in
              favor of granting pensions to soldiers of 1812; also, a message from the Governor
              transmitting proceedings of the Common Council of Michigan City looking to further
              appropriations for the Michigan City Harbor.
            These papers were referred to appropriate committees.
          
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. HESS presented two petitions in favor of the amendment of the Divorce laws so as
              to prevent corruption and fraud.
            Mr. ANDREWS, Mr. HENBERSON, and Mr. ROSEBOROGH, presented petitions from Attorneys,
              praying for increase of salaries of Judicial officers.
            Mr. ROSEBOROGH presented two petitions for the suppression of the traffic in
              intoxicating liquors.
            Mr. LASALLE presented a petition signed by sixty one inmates of the Soldiers' Home
              remonstrating against their transfer to the Dayton Home, and setting forth reasons why
              they prefer remaining in this State.
            Mr. BROWN presented a letter published in the morning Sentinel from
              Danville, written by a State Senator of 1846-7-8, on the assumption of the Wabash and
              Erie canal debt.
            Mr. CARNAHAN presented a claim from Major Stearns Fisher, which was referred without
              reading.
            Mr. MARTINDALE presented a petition from members of the Marion county bar praying for
              the passage of Representative Wilson's bill for the organization of a Superior
              Court.
            They were severally referred to the appropriate committees.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. CAVE, from the Committee on Roads, returned the bill [S. 94]
              to prevent the changing of public roads in certain cases, recommending its
              passage.
            Also, Mr. Glessner's bill [S. 45] legalizing extension of plank and gravel roads,
              with a favorable recommendation.
            Mr. FULLER, from the same committee, returned the bill [S. 102] with a favorable
              report.
            Mr. HESS, from the same Committee, returned the bill, S. 69, authorizing plank and
              macadamized roads to condem material, with amendments, recommending passage.
            Mr. ROBINSON, from the same Committee, returned the bill, S. 24, with amendments.
            Mr. GRAY, from the Committee on Fees and Salaries, returned the bill, S.18, allowing
              Recorders to demand their fees instanter, recommending its passage.
            Mr. FULLER, from the Committee on Banks, returned the bill, [S.
              77], designating holidays for payments and acceptances, with a favorable report
              thereon.
            These reports go to the files.
            Mr. HENDERSON, from the Committee on Fees and Salaries, returned
              the bill [S. 6], providing for specific salaries of county officers, with a
              recommendation that the bill lie on the table. The report was concurred in.
            Mr. DENBO, from the same committee, returned the bill (S. 85), fixing compensation of
              county officers, with a similar recommendation. The report was concurred in.
            Mr. GLESSNER, from the same committee, returned the bill (S. 103), regulating docket
              fees of District Attorneys on forfeited recognizances, with a recommendation that  it lie on the table. The report was concurred
              in.
            Mr. HUBBARD, from the same committee, returned the bill (S. 123) to amend the third
              section of the act regulating docket fees of District Attorneys with a similar
              recommendation. This report was also concurred in.
          
          
            LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
            The Committee on Prisons obtained leave of absence till Monday.
              Mr. Dwiggins and Mr. Collett obtained leave of absence till Tuesday morning.
          
          
            SOLDIERS OF 1861.
            Mr. LASELLE called up his motion to reconsider the vote of the Senate passing the
              House joint resolution for Congressional instruction--with regard to the soldiers of
              1861.
            A similar resolution having heretofore passed both Houses--
            On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE the House joint resolution was laid on the table.
          
          
            RECESS TILL MONDAY.
            On motion it was--
            Ordered, That when the Senate adjourn it adjourn till Monday at 2
              o'clock P. M.
            On motion by Mr. GRAY Mr. Hadley was appointed in his place to visit the
              Jeffersonville prison.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The following bills were introduced, read the first time and severally passed to the
              second reading:
            Mr. BRADLEY, by request [S. 137], to provide for a new trial for persons convicted of
              felonious homicide (where the plea of insanity is made); such persons to be kept in
              the Insane Asylum for one year, when a new trial may be had.
            On his motion the constitutional restriction was dispensed with, and the bill was
              read by title and referred to the Judiciary Committee.
            By Mr. CARNAHAN, a bill [S. 138] to amend section 22 of the act of January 4, 1852,
              concerning enclosures, trespassing animals, &c.
            By Mr. CASE, (S. 139) to amend section 135 of the act for the settlement of
              decedent's estates.
            By Mr. HENDERSON, by request, (S. 140) to prohibit the catching or killing of fish in
              certain waters of this State, excepting only the Ohio and St. Joseph Rivers.
            By Mr. HUBBARD, a bill [S. 141] to amend section 17 of an act to repeal all laws and
              to provide for the incorporation of cities approved March 14,1867.
          
          
            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
            The bill [H. R. 84] to prevent prize fighting was read by title only.
            The bill [H. R. 38] to legalize the official acts of the Trustees of the town of
              Gosport was read by title only.
            These bills were severally referred to the appropriate committees.
          
          
            ROAD TAXES.
            Mr. Beeson's bill [S. 24] authorizing plank, macadamized and gravel road companies,
              with the concurrence of township trustees, to assess a road tax of not less than five
              cents nor more than twenty-five cents on the $100 annually, to be collected as other
              road taxes are collected, coming up on the second reading with committee amendments
              thereto, the amendments were concurred in.
            The bill was read the second time and ordered engrossed for the third reading.
          
          
            COUNTY RECORDERS.
            Mr. Carnahan's bill (S. 18) authorizing County Recorders to demand and receive their
              fees at the time mortgages, deeds and other papers are presented for record coming
              up--
            It was read the second time and ordered engrossed for the third reading.
          
          
            BRIBERY.
            Mr. Martindale's bill (S. 21) to amend section 39 of the act defining felonies and
              prescribing punishment therefor, approved June 10, 1852, coming up in order--
            It was read the second time.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved to dispense with the constitutional restriction that the bill
              may be put upon its passage now. He explained that it covers all persons, including
              members of the Legislature and the officers thereof; and should the bill become a law,
              when a charge of bribery is made upon a member or officer of the Legislature, the
              charge becomes an offense, and the party is liable to an action for libel and no
              defense can be set up but the proof has to be forthcoming.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 34, nays 6.
            The bill was then considered as engrossed, and read tho third time.
            Mr. MARTINDALE further explained that the bill uses the broad term "holding an office
              of trust or profit" because that term has been held to include county commissioners,
              trustee and everything but, probably, an incorporated city officer; therefore he made
              the bill specifically to include them. The bill covers every officer of every kind and
              description. We have a special law with regard to the briberies of jurors and
              witnesses, and briberies in elections, and he thought that this law would cover the
              whole subject. As far as it refers to members of the Legislature, it has been usual to
              charge corruption upon them, and if a member were to bring suit upon the charge he
              would hare to show that he was damaged to some extent before he can get judgment.
              Under this bill if the party fails to sustain the charge the member must have
              judgment, and he should be entitled to vindicate his character.
            Mr. GLESSNER moved to recommit the bill with instructions to so amend as to make any
              one violating the provisions of this act ineligible to hold any office of trust or
              profit, and disfranchised for an indefinite period.
            There being no objection, the bill was so amended by common consent.
            And then the bill passed the Senate by yeas, 43; nays, none.
          
          
            PLANK AND GRAVEL ROADS.
            Mr. Hess' bill [S. 69] authorizing plank, 
              macadamized and gravel road companies to enter upon lands and appropriate gravel and
              stone and timber, construct drains, etc., on adjacent lands, to pay for such material
              after appraisement, coming up on the second reading with a committee amendment
              striking out the word "timber"
            The committee amendment was agreed to.
            The bill was read and ordered engrossed.
          
          
            INTEREST ON MONEYS.
            Mr. Wood's bill (S. 9) regulating interest on money coming up, with committee
              amendments thereto--
            Mr. CAVEN explained the amendments. Under existing laws, when a ten per cent. note is
              put in judgment interest is only allowed at the rate of six per centum thereafter. The
              amendment provides that on the principal sum found to be due interest shall be
              collected at the rate named in the original contract, and six per cent. on the
              interest found to be due. The bill would allow contract interest on both principal and
              interest.
            Mr. FULLER had no doubt some such law should be passed, and as the Committee
                on Finance is now considering some such measure, he moved the reference of
              this bill to that committee.
            Mr. WOOD hoped the bill would be passed at once, though he preferred the bill without
              the amendment proposed by the committee, because it would require two separate
              judgments,one for principal and the other for interest.
            Mr. BRADLEY, a member of the committee which considered this bill, objected to the
              report. In order to get a test vote, he moved that the bill and pending amendment be
              indefinitely postponed.
            Mr. WILLIAMS favored this motion. He thought such a measure would prove a fruitful
              source of litigation. There is now no inducement to go into courts--now it is much
              preferable to renew paper at ten per cent. than to go into court.
            Mr. GRAY cared but little about this thing personally. He favored this measure
              because the law ought to carry out contracts made, and not make a better one for the
              contractor. There were more notes sued in court because the debtor does not pay; for
              he would rather go into court and have a judgment rendered so that but six per cent,
              can be collected thereafter. He hoped the bill would not be indefinitely
              postponed.
            Mr. BRADLEY contended that the law never made a contract. When a man makes a contract
              to pay at a certain time at ten per cent., the other sues and recovers the amount due
              and interest accrued. He would not favor legislating for capital against labor. He
              desired such legislation as would prevent sueing on notes.
            Mr. MARTINDALE combatted Mr. Williams' position, that there will be more suits
              instituted on notes were the judgment to bear ten per cent. interest, and claimed that
              all bills and enactments looking to the enforcement of contracts were for the benefit
              of the laboring classes, and regarded this bill as an entering wedge in legislation to
              be had on this subject.
            Mr. MORGAN said gentlemen were talking about this matter as though postponement of
              this bill would be legislating for poor men, but it looked to him like a sort of
              backhanded business. He believed that the rate of interest should not be over the rate
              of six per cent. He believed the law should be made equitable and just, and rest upon
              every class alike, but if he were going to try to favor one class over and above
              another he would certainly legislate in favor of the poor man, because the rich man
              can always take care of himself.
            Mr. STEELE thought it a singular way to benefit the poor man to require him to pay 10
              per cent, interest on judgments instead of 5 as the law now is. That would be
              legislating with a vengeance for the poor man. He wished these gentlemen would publish
              their speeches in full and send them down in the rural districts to convince these
              money borrowers that they are standing in their own light not to pay 10 per cent, on
              judgments instead of 6.
            Mr. MARTINDALE replied, contending that the law as it now stands is simply an act to
              encourage dishonesty and to prevents the collection of debts.
            Mr. HOOPER believed the proposed amendment was as near the equity of this matter as
              we can get. We should have safe and prudent laws for the enforcement of
              contracts--such laws would be a benefit to all parties in community. He should support
              the amendment and then the bill, because he believed it to be correct in
              principle.
            Mr. GLESSNER should certainly vote against the bill. He voted in favor of the
              amendment because if the bill is to pass at all he preferred to see it pass with the
              amendment rather than without. He regarded six per cent. as the full value of money
              and was in favor of repealing the present ten per cent. law, and declared his purpose
              to introduce a bill for its repeal if no other Senator does. He was of opinion that
              this measure would increase litigation, and that we are required not to do, but the
              strong point against it is that the people are not asking for it. He would be opposed
              to a bill for the repeal of the redemption law or a bill to recover attorney fees on
              suits for the collection of notes, although such legislation would accrue to his own
              benefit. He hoped the motion to indefinitely postpone the bill would be sustained, and
              had it not been for the custom which recognizes it as discourteous, he should have
              moved to reject this bill when it was first introduced.
            Mr. WOOD stated the single object of this bill to be that, where a man who is
              competent to make a contract solemnly agrees that he will pay ten per cent. interest
              for money, the present law shall be so amended that the contract may be enforced, and
              there is nothing in that which the poor man, if an honest man, will object to. It
              provides simply that a man may be compelled to be honest, and for nothing more.
              Gentlemen have said that it will make additional business in court.  Instead of that being the case, the opposite was his
              experience.
            The motion to indefinitely postpone the bill and pending amendments was rejected, by
              yeas, 19, nays, 26, as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Alsop, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Carnahan, Cave,
                    Denbo Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg, Henderson, Johnson, Keigwin, Lasselle,
                    Sarninghausen, Steele, Stroud and Williams--19.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Armstrong, Beardsley, Beeson, Case,
                    Caven, Collett, Dittermore, Dougherty, Dwiggins, Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley,
                    Hamilton, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard, Martindale, Morgan, Robinson, Rosebrough,
                    Scott, Taylor. Wadge and Wood--23.
                
              
            
            And then--
            The Senate adjourned till Monday at 2 o'clock P. M.
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            FRIDAY, January 27, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 a. m.; the order of prayer by Rev. Mr. Lynch.
          Mr. SIMPSON demanded a call of the House, which proceeded, and discovered 73 members
            present and answering.
          The order of the reading and authentication of the journal of yesterday was made and
            proceeded, till on the motion of Mr. ZENOR, it was dispensed with.
          
            CORRECTION.
            Mr. WILSON said that his point of order preferred yesterday at the opening of the
              session, was not that a question on the correction of the journal is not debateable,
              as reported in these columns, but that the discussion of the resolution then pending
              was not in order.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, suggested a correction of the journal by striking out that
              part which records the adoption of the title to this joint resolution for the Governor
              to supervise the pending suit of the State Against the Terre Haute Railroad
              Company.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The SPEAKER announced the order of the call of the counties for bills, resolutions,
              petitions and memorials.
            Mr. SABIN presented a petition for a Prison Reformatory--
            Also, for woman suffrage.
            Mr. HENDERSON--the petition of sundry citizens of St. Joseph county for repeal of the
              Kankakee drainage law; also, for repeal of the odious features of the divorce laws,
              which petitions were referred to appropriate committees.
            Mr. NETHERTON introduced a bill [H. R. 195] for an act entitled "An act to amend
              sections 34 and 35 of an act to provide for a general system of Common Schools, with
              provisions therefor, as approved March 6, 1865, describing the duties and privileges
              of School Examiners in the examination of applicants for license to teach in the
              common schools of Indiana; designating the number of branches in which applicants to
              teach shall be examined; determining the grade of scholarship requisite in order to
              obtain license to teach in the common schools; stating the length of time for which
              teachers' licenses may be granted, and the conditions of granting the same;
              designating the county seat as the place at which all examinations of applicants shall
              be held, and naming the time of holding the said examinations of teachers, with
              provisions for change of the time of holding the same during the month in which is
              held the Annual Teachers' Institute; and, in the event of such change, requiring the
              examiner to previously publish the same; naming the time and place of holding the said
              examination; authorizing the patrons of any common schools in the State do designate
              certain additiontal branches of learning which they desire taught; and requiring the
              teachers of said schools to be examined therein; repealing, &c., stating the time
              of the taking effect of this act.
            Mr. HOLLAND presented two petitions from sundry persons of Switzerland county for a
              law to suppress the traffic in intoxicating liquors.
            Mr. WARRUM obtained leave of absence till Monday.
          
          
            RAILROAD ASSESSMENTS.
            Mr. CONNER submitted a resolution which was adopted, for the Speaker to appoint a
              select committee of one from each Congressional District, with instructions to report
              at their earliest convenience a bill to regulate the appraisement and assessment of
              Railroads.
          
          
            THE VOLKSBLATT AND THE SUNDAY POST.
            Mr. HEILMAN submitted a resolution that the Doorkeeper contract for six copies of
              each of the two weekly German newspapers, (Volksblatt and the Sunday Post) printed in Indianapolis--to be delivered, (wrapped and
              stamped,) on the desk of members.
            After an ineffectual motion to lay it on the table--
            Mr. SANSBERRY moved ineffectually, to amend by dispensing with all newspapers; and
              the question recurred on the adoption of the resolution.
            The yeas and nays being demanded and taken thereon, the resolution was adopted--yeas
              63, nays 17--Mr. Simpson saying that his affirmative vote was a tribute to the
              intelligence and respectability of the German people of the State.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH, his motion to reconsider this vote was laid on the table.
            Mr. HEILMAN introduced a bill, (H,R. 196,) for an act to amend the act of Jan. 27,
              1847, granting to the town of Evansville a city charter, by adding supplemental
              sections thereto.
            Mr. HOOKER presented the petition of sundry citizens of Vanderburgh county relative
              to immigration.
            Mr. WHITE introduced a bill [H. R. 197] for an act to amend section 8 of the act for
              the election, and prescribing certain of the duties, of County Surveyors.
            Mr. WHITE [H. R. 198], for an act amending section 2 of the act approved March 11,
              1861; amending section 10 of the act providing for the election and qualification of
              Justices of the Peace, approved June 9,1852; and repealing the first paragraph of
              section  70 of said act. [Jurisdiction to $300
              and $500.)
            Mr. KNIGHT, H. R. 199, for an act to amend section 20 of the act providing for the
              election or appointmant of supervisors of highways, approved March 15, 1859, and
              repealing,&c. Road tax assessments not to exceed 20 cents on the $100 real
              estate.
            Mr. RHODES, H. R. 200, for an act to amend section 6 of article 2 of the Civil
              Practice act of June 18, 1852.
            Mr. RHODES, H. R. 201, for an act to authorize township trustees to make surveys of
              highways in certain cases, providing compensation thereof, and authorizing said
              trustees to keep the highways open.
            Mr. McDOWELL (H. R. 202) for an act to amend the charter of the town of Bluffton.
            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Governor, transmitting
              information relative to the pending suit of the State against the Terre Haute and
              Indianapolis Railroad Company; in relation to the Michigan City harbor, and the report
              of the Trustees of the State Normal School.
            Mr. MINICK presented a temperance petition, which was referreed without reading.
            Mr. MYER (for Mr. Defress) offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                Committee on Benevolent and Scientific Institutions to report a
              bill for the construction of an appropriate building for the accommodation of the
              incurably insane.
            Mr. RUDDELL (by unanimous consent) offered a concurrent resolution for a memorial
              through the Indiana Congressmen for the removal of the National Capitol to where it
              will be more central, etc.
            Mr. STONE moved to lay it on the table; which motion was rejected--yeas 23, nays
              59.
            On motion of Mr. RUDDELL, the further consideration of the resolution was postponed,
              and it was made the special order for Friday next at 2 1/2 o'clock P. M.
            On motion of Mr. MILES, Messrs Butterworth and Henderson obtained leave of absence
              till Tuesday. Mr. Calkins, of Porter, also obtained leave of absence till Tuesday.
          
          
            TEA, COFFEE, SUGAR, SALT.
            The SPEAKER announced the consideration of the joint resolution of the Senate for a
              memorial to our Congressmen for such a modification of the general tariff laws as to
              place tea, coffee, sugar and salt on the free list.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, would like to have this matter considered. I am in favor of
              putting these articles on the free list as soon as it can be done prudently, but it
              occurs to me that if it were done at once it might cut off the resources of the
              treasury, and that the general revenue would have to be raised from other sources that
              would be more embarrassing than this. I do not rise merely to make objections, but it
              seems to me that if we consider the present form of the resolution it might be better
              guarded by amendment. The amendment which I desire to make is, that Congress be
              requested to have these articles placed on the free list as soon as the emergencies of
              the case will allow it to be done without embarrassing the revenues. I will put it in
              writing.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton. As this is a matter of considerable importance--one upon
              which we ought not to act hastily, I move that the whole matter be postponed and made
              the special order for Thursday next at 2 o'clock p. m.
            On the motion of Mr. CUNNINGHAM, this motion was laid on the table.
            Mr. WILLIAMS moved that the subject be indefinitely postponed.
            After debate, by Messrs. Calkins, of Fulton, Hawley, Cox and others.
            The SPEAKER ruled that the question is on the amendment of the gentleman from
              Porter.
            Mr. HOLLAND proposed to amend the amendment, by inserting appropriatly these words:
              "pig iron, sole leather, and all other articles of prime necessity."
            Mr. ZENOR was understood to desire the postponement of the question.
            Mr. HAYNES spoke in favor of the resolution. There are articles of luxury that will
              afford a greater revenue than that derived from articles of prime necessity.
            A VOICE--Will the gentleman name them.Mr. HAYNES. Their name is
              legion, and to find them the gentleman is referred to the report of the Commissioner
              of Internal Revenue.
            Mr. MARTIN of Putnam moved to lay the amendments on the table.
            The SPEAKER announced his ruling in advance that if on the question of the adoption
              of this motion it should be decided in the affirmative the whole matter will likewise
              go on the table.
            The motion to lay on the table was agreed to a division--affirmative 43, negative
              23.
            So the subject was laid on the table.
            Mr. SIMPSON moved to reconsider the vote just taken.
            Mr. KENNEDY moved to lay the motion to reconsider on the table; and his motion was
              rejected--yeas 37, nays 45.
            The question recurring on the motion to reconsider the vote, which carried the
              subject to the table--it was agreed to--yeas 44, nays 34, as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Barnaby, Browning, Bruner, Caldwell, Cauthorn,
                    Coggswell, Conner, Cox, Cunningham. Curtis, Davidson, Donham, Gallentine,
                    Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Boone. Hardin. Hartley, Hawley, Haynes, Holland, Hynes,
                    Logan, Martin of Putam, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Minick, Miles, Montgomery,
                    Neff, Rice, Sansberry, Simpson, Shutt, Stanley, Stephens, Stone, Tarlton,
                    Taughinbaugh, Taylor, Tebbs, Zenor and Mr. Speaker--44.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Beeler, Calkins of Porter, Deputy, Devol,
                    Friedley, Heilman, Hendry, Hill, Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Knight,
                    Lines, Major, Millikan, Monroe, Myers, Netherton, Rawles, Rhodes, Ruddell,
                    Sabin, Sayers, Schoenemann, Snodgrass, Stephenson, St. John, Stone, Washburn,
                    White, Wilson, Wood and Woodward--34.
                
              
            
            So the vote was reconsidered.
            And then the question recurred on the motion to lay the amendment to the amendment on
              the table.

            

            Mr. WILLIAMS moved for the adjournment.
            Mr. BROWNING submitted an order that when the House shall adjourn to-day, it shall be
              till Monday, 2 o'clock P. M.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF, it was laid on the table.
            Mr. HOLLAND asked and obtained leave to withdraw his amendment to Mr. Calkins'
              amendment proposed to the Senate joint resolution for the modification of the
              tariff.
            Mr. Miles and Mr. Shutt obtained leave of absence till Monday.
            The SPEAKER announced the consideration of the Senate's amendment to the concurrent
              resolution of the House of Representatives to print the Governor's message, viz: 2,000
              copies in the German language, instead of 1,500.
            The amendment was concurred in by unanimous consent.
            The House then took a recess till 2 o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed at 2 o'clock.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, called attention to the incomplete ventilation of the Hall of
              the House of Representatives, stating that a number of members have gone home sick,
              suggesting funerals.
            Mr. COX submitted an order that the doorkeeper be directed to provide vessels
              containing one gallon of water, and cause one to be placed on each of the stoves in
              the lobby.
            Mr. MINICH did not think that the ill-health of the members was so much to be
              attributed to the stoves as to the incomplete ventilation. There was too much carbon
              in the hall.
            Mr. CALDWELL moved that the vessels have a capacity of three gallons.
            The modification of the order was acquiesced in, and so it was adopted by
              consent.
            Mr. WILLIAMS asked and obtained leave to record his vote in the affirmative on the
              adoption of the joint resolution passed last Tuesday relative to the constitutional
              amendment.

            
              TEA, COFFEE, SUGAR, SALT.
              The SPEAKER returned to the unfinished business of this morning, viz: the
                consideration of the Senate joint resolution for a modification of the tariff laws
                of the United States, and stated that, on reflection, he would hold that a motion to
                postpone to a day certain has precedence of a motion to amend; and, therefore, the
                pending question is: will the House agree to the motion of Mr. Calkins of Fulton
                that this subject be postponed and made the special order for Thursday next at 2
                o'clock p. M. ?
              The motion was agreed to by unanimous consent.
            
            
              REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
              On motion of Mr. NEFF, the regular order of business was suspended,and the House
                proceeded to the call of the Committees for reports.
            
            
              ELECTION LAWS.
              Mr. McDOWELL, from the Committee on Elections, reported a bill
                [H. R. 203] for an act regulating general and special elections, and prescribing the
                duty of officers in relation thereto, and for the punishment of officers for
                neglecting their duty therein.
              Mr. SABIN said the Committee have considered all the election bills referred to
                them, and this bill is the result of their deliberations, and it has our unanimous
                recommendation.
              On the motion of Mr. CONNER, the bill was ordered to the first reading.
              Mr. COX, from the Committee on Elections, returned Mr. Miles'
                election law amendment bill, [H. R. 194], recommending that it be laid on the
                table--its provisions being embraced in the bill just before reported.
              Mr. BARNABY, from the same Committee, returned Mr. Martin of Wayne's election law
                amendment bill, [H. R. 110], recommending that it be laid on the table.
              Also Mr. Hawley's election law amendment bill, [H. R. 87], recommending that it be
                laid on the table.
              Mr. CAWTHORN, from the same Committee, returned Mr. Britton's spring election bill,
                [H. R. 70], recommending that it lie on the table.
              Mr. SABIN, from the same committee, returned Mr. Copner's election law amendment
                bill [H. R. 51] recommending that it be laid on the table.
              Mr. WHITE, from the same committee, returned Mr. Zenor's election law amendment
                bill (H. R. 36) recommending that it be laid on the table.
              Mr. McDOWELL, from the same committee, returned the resolution of the House of last
                week directing inquiry as to the expediency of electing township officers in April
                every two years, reporting that said committee, do not consider it expedient to hold
                said elections at that time.
              Mr. NEFF, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
                Hines' bill (H. R. 189) for amendment of the seventh section of the Common School
                law, recommending that it be referred to the Committee on
                  Education.
              These several reports were concurred in by the House of Representatives, and the
                bills and the resolution were laid on the table.
              Mr. NEFF, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr. Ballenger's
                bill(H. R. 152), authorizing subpenas deuces tekum to be served on
                officials sued on their bonds for producing the original papers on trial, &c.,
                with the expression of opinion that it ought to pass.
              Mr. CAUTHORN, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr.
                Britton's bill (H. R. 129) to amend sections 1 and 3 of the act to amend the several
                acts for the removal of county seats, recommending that it pass.
              Mr. FRIEDLY, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr. Stone's
                bill (H. R. 191), supplementary to the act regulating prosecutions in cases of
                bastardy, &c., recommending its passage with amendments striking out sections 2
                and 5.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, from the Judi-  ciary
                Committeee, returned his bill (H. R.170) to amend section 18 of the act of May 2,
                1852, concerning the partition of lands,recommending its passage.
              He said the object of the bill is to save the cost of division lines by having the
                Commissioner, in case the land cannot be divided without injury, to appraise the
                land, and that the Court may hear evidence as to its value. It is to make the law a
                matter of certainty. The old law is uncertain as to the kind of evidence that goes
                before the Court.
            
            
              ATTACHMENT.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, from the same Committee, returned the bill (H. R. 122) to
                amend the civil practice act, being supplemental thereto--recommending its
                passage.
              He explained the object of the bill to be to provide that any person having a claim
                against another who is about to remove his property out of the State, may have the
                property attached to secure the payment of the debt.
              Mr. ST. JOHN, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr.
                Sansberry's bill, [H. R. 180,] relative to the disabilities of Circuit Court judges,
                and providing for the appointment of judges pro tem recommending
                that it pass.
              Mr. CALDWELL, from the Committee on Swamp Lands, returned the
                bill to repeal the drainage law, with an amendment adding a section (2,) saving the
                rights of companies who have extended their ditch twenty miles and so recommending
                its passage.
              These several reports were received and the propositions take their order on the
                Calendar.
            
            
              INDIANAPOLIS GAS LIGHT COMPANY.
              Mr. ZENOR, from the Committee on Claims, returned the claim of
                the Indianapolis Gaslight and Coke Company for $26 40 with the expression of opinion
                that it ought not to be allowed.
              Mr. BROWNING said this claim is founded on a contract with the City Council of
                Indianapolis to set up a lamp post. The committee considered that this is not the
                proper place for them to come with their claim.
              Mr. SABIN suggested that the lamp post is on ground belonging to the State; and by
                the statute of 1867 it is provided that where improvements have been made on the
                lands of the State in such a case that the cost of the improvement would be good
                against an individual, it shall be good against the State.
              The report was concurred in.
            
            
              T. HORTON.
              Mr. HARTLEY, from the Committee on Claims, returned tho claim of
                T. Horton for $1,000, recommending that it be not allowed.
              The SPEAKER explained that this is a claim for injuries alledged to have been
                suffered by the party (Mr. Horton), on account of an arbitrary arrest.
              The report was concurred in.
            
            
              S. W. PALMER.
              Mr. BROWNING, from the Committee on Claims, returned the papers in the claim of S.
                W. Palmer, formerly a Sheriff of St. Joseph county, for arresting three prisoners
                escaping from the county jail--recommending that it be not allowed.
              Mr. BROWNING. The case is, that the prisoners broke jail and the Sheriff, on his
                own authority, offered and paid a reward for their arrest.
              The report was concurred in.
            
            
              REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.
              Mr. TEBBS, from the Committee on Claims, returned Mr. Abbett's
                bill (H. R. 122) to appropriate $250 for the distribution of the report of the
                Superintendent of Public Instruction, recommending that it pass.
              Mr. HAYNES, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges,
                returned Mr. Warrum's bill (H. R. 134) to prohibit certain animals from running at
                large without the permission of the township trustee or other local authority,
                recommending its passage.
              Also Mr. Copner's bill [H. R. 142] to amend section 5 of the act to amend sections
                18, 24, 25 and 26 of the act regulating descents and the apportionment of estates,
                approved May 14, 1852, approved March 4, 1853, recommending its passage.
              Those reports were received and the bills go to the calendar.
            
            
              STATE GEOLOGIST.
              Mr. HAYNES, from the same committee, returned the resolution of the House
                requesting the State Geologist to visit Northern and Eastern Indiana, and, if
                necessary, requesting him to employ an assistant to do so, recommening its
                adoption.
              Mr. RUDDELL said there was a resolu-of a similar character now in the hands of the
                  Committee on Agriculture; and, on his motion, the report was
                referred to that committee.
              Mr. ZENOR, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
                returned Mr. Britton's bill (H. R. 18) to repeal section 2 of the act repealing
                sections 2 to 17 and 19 to 22 of the registry act of March 11, 1867, and prescribing
                further duties of the election officers, approved May 13, 1869 recommending that it
                be laid on the table.
              Mr. BRUNER, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
                returned Mr. Haynes' bill (H. R. 101) to amend section 9 of the act to enable
                incorporated towns to lay out, open and improve streets and alleys, to make certain
                plats, &c.--recommending its passage.
            
            
              THE TEMPORARY POOR.
              Mr. WOOD, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
                returned Mr. Major's bill (H. R. 143) to provide for the care of temporary poor
                persons in each township, and prescribing the duties of Township Trustees in
                relation thereto--recommending that it be laid on the table.
              Mr. MAJOR. With due respect to the judgment of the committee--this bill proposes to
                leave the temporary poor in the hands of the Township Trustees. I believe the law
                now makes the Township Trustee overseer of the poor, but they get up very large
                bills under its operation, in connec-  tion
                with the county poor house. If this business were confined to the townships, I know
                that there would be several hundred dollars saved every year, at least in our
                county.
              Mr. ZENOR. My experience in the county board is that these paupers can be kept by
                the county at much less expense than they could be cared for in the townships. I am
                opposed to the bill on account of the consideration of economy.
              Mr. MYERS said it was generally conceded that paupers could be kept cheaper in one
                place than where they are scattered over the county. Under the present law they can
                be kept in the townships, provided its costs no more than at the county house.
              Mr. RHODES. There are two classes of paupers--one permanent and the other temporary
                paupers. The permanent paupers are generally inmates of the poor house. If I
                understand this bill correctly it is this: that the Township Trustee shall take care
                of the temporary paupers living in his township, and provide for the expense of what
                temporary relief may be required--the expense to be paid out of the township fund.
                It frequently happens in our county that very large bills are paid for temporary
                paupers, allowed out of the county treasury. The only change this bill makes is to
                fasten the expense of these paupers upon the township--the object being to secure a
                more careful oversight. I think that would be the result, and that the Township
                Trustee would act more judiciously. Then the only effect of this bill would be to
                relieve the counties of a good deal of expense they now have to bear.
              Mr. ZENOR repeated that the law already provides for the keeping of the temporary
                poor by their friends at home, if it cost no more than it would at the County
                Asylum.
              The report was concurred in, and the bill was laid on the table.
              Mr. BROWNING, from the Committee on Agriculture, returned his
                bill [H. R. 9] to amend an act to repeal the act to discourage the keeping of
                useless and sheep killing dogs, and to provide penalties, &c., and to repeal an
                act to license dogs, approved March 1, 1861, and providing that nothing in this act
                shall be so construed as to conflict with the provisions of an act for the
                protection of sheep, approved June 15, 1852, recommending its passage.
              Mr. CAUTHORN, from the Committee on Corporations, returned Mr.
                Gordon's, of Cass, bill [H. R. 43] to provide for holding property in Roman Catholic
                churches, cathedrals', colleges and seminaries of learning, recommending its
                passage.
              Mr. BROWNING, from the Committee on Corporations, returned Mr.
                Neff's bill (H. R. 143), to amend section 8 of an act to enable trustees to receive
                lands and donations and convey the same for the construction of school houses,
                seminaries and houses of worship, approved June 17,1852 recommending that it be laid
                on the table.
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. NEFF, from the Committee on Corporations, returned Mr.
                King's bill (H.R. 178), to amend sections 2 and 3 of the act to incorporate the
                Indianapolis Gas Light and Coke Company, approved February 12, 1851 recommending it
                passage.
              Mr. NEFF, from the same committee, returned Mr. Martin of Putnam's bill [H. R. 29]
                repealing sections 2 and 4 of an act authorizing voluntary associations, &c.,
                approved February 12, 1855, to acquire title to lands that have heretofore been used
                as burial places, and to acquire additional adjoining lands, approved May 14, 1869,
                recommending that it be laid on the table.
              The report was concurred in.
              On motion of Mr. BARNABY, Mr. Shoeneman obtained leave of absence till Monday.
              Mr. Knight also obtained leave of absence till Monday.
              Mr. NEFF moved to dispense further with the regular order of business, and take up
                the consideration of bills of the House of Representatives on the second reading-
                deeming it hardly proper to attempt the passage of bills with so thin a house.
            
            
              ADJOURNMENT TILL MONDAY.
              Mr. HEILMAN moved that when the House shall adjourn to-day, it shall be till
                Monday, 2 o'clock P. M.
              Mr. NEFF and others demanded the yeas and nays thereon, which were taken, and
                resulted--yeas 38, nays 34--
              So the motion was agreed to.
              And then, at 4 o'clock, the House adjourned.
            
          
        
        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            MONDAY, January 30, 1871.
          
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR commanded order at 2 o'clock P. M.
          Prayers were offered by Elder William F. Black, President of the Northwestern Christian
            University, and Pastor of the First Christian Church.
          The Secretary's minutes of Friday's proceedings were read.
          Pending which--
          Mr. DITTEMORE made an ineffectual motion to dispense with the further reading
            thereof.
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. BRADLEY presented a claim.
            Mr. HUGHES presented a memorial on the subject of criminal courts.
            Mr. BRADLEY presented two petitions praying for amendments of the liquor law.
            These petitions were severally referred to the appropriate committee, without
              reading.
          
          
            XVTH AMENDMENT.
            Mr. BOBO, from the Committee on Elections, made the following
              majority report:
            MR. PRESIDENT:--The Committee on Elections, to
              whom was referred joint resolution No. 7, introduced by Mr. Hughes, entitled "a joint
              resolution concerning the so-called Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
              United States, and its pretended ratification, and proposing a convention of the
              States to amend the Constitution of the United States," have had the same under
              consideration, and a majority of said committee have directed me to report the same
              back with a recommendation that it pass.
            Mr. SCOTT, from the same committee, submitted the following report:
            MR. PRESIDENT: The undersigned, a minority of the
                Committee on Elections, to whom was referred Senate joint
              resolution No. 7, concerning the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
              States, and ratification thereof, and proposing a convention of the States to amend
              the Constitution of the United States, beg leave to report that they are unable to
              join with the majority of said committee in recommending the passage of said joint
              resolution for the following reasons, viz:
            I. Because said joint resolution declares, that the pretended ratification of said
              amendment on the part of this Senate, was null and void, and yet pretended to rescind
              and witdraw the action whereby the ratification was accomplished. The rescission of a
              nullity, is too much like an attempt to annihilate a nonentity, to engage the
              consideration of a deliberative body. If the action of the last General Assembly of
              this State in attempting to ratify said amendment was null and void.
            It requires, and in the nature of things, is susceptible of no resecision. If, on the
              other hand, it was, as we believe, valid, the act of ratification was a finality, and
              incapable of recision or withdrawal.
            2. Said joint resolution declares that the acts of certain States in ratifying said
              amendment were null and void, and ought not to have been counted in determining the
              question whether said amendment was ratified, and that the State of Indiana protests
              and solemnly declares that said amendment is not this day, and never has been in law,
              a part of the Constitution of the United States.
            We object to this resolution, because the Democratic party, from which it eminates,
              by counting the votes of our fellow citizens of African descent is estopped from
              questioning the validity of the law under which they claim and exercise the elective
              franchise; and because it is as futile to protest against such an accomplished
              political fact, as it would be to denounce the abolition of slavery, the acquisition
              of the Louisiana Territory, or the admission of Texas or California. Political
              equality is right, unless the Declaration of Independence is wrong, and being right,
              and having been so declared by the only branches of the government competent to make
              the declaration it is too late for any political party to file a special demurrer to
              the methods or manner in which this grand result was accomplished.
            3. Said joint resolution asks Congress to call a convention of the States and the
              people, according to the provisions of the fifth article of the Constitution of the
              United States, for the purpose of proposing amendments to said Constitution for the
              ratification of the States. We are opposed to this feature of the resolution, because
              no defect in the Constitution, as it now exists, is pointed out; and in a matter of so
              much importance, it is but rea-  sonable that
              Indiana, if she solicits the call of a National Convention to amend the Constitution
              of the United States, should indicate some particular in which that instrument
              requires amendment. It is also to be feared that such a Convention, if called so
              recently after the abolition of slavery, and if animated by the spirit of the
              so-called Democracy might, in the name of Democracy, attempt to restore slavery or
              declare against the political equality of the citizens of the Republic.
            The undersigned, therefore, recommend the passage of the following resolution,
              viz:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the aforesaid Senate Joint Resolution No. 7
                    be, and the same is hereby indefinitely postponed.
                
              
            
            All of which is respectfully submitted.
            ASHBUBY STEELE, A. S. CASE,
              H. D. SCOTT.
            The question being on the adoption of the minority report--
            Mr. HUGHES said: Mr. President--I call for the reading of the joint resolution.
            The joint resolution [S. 7], introduced by Mr. Hughes on the 24th inst., and printed
              on pages 143 and 144 of these reports, was read by the Secretary.
            Mr. HUGHES. Mr. President. The joint resolution that has just been read, contains in
              the first place a statement of facts, and in the second place the logical deductions
              which belong to that statement. The argument in favor of this resolution can be
              apprehended from its reading. If the preamamble and statements are true, the
              resolutions are proper, and ought to be passed by this body. I am so entirely
              persuaded of this that when these resolutions came up as the special order on Thursday
              last, I felt disposed to wave their discussion, but in view of the fact that some
              Senators had complained of the previous question being called on some former occasion,
              and that a fair opportunity for discussion was not allowed here. A tender of all the
              time necessary to discuss the resolution was made to the other side of the House, but
              it was rejected, and we were informed in the public prints sympathizing with those
              Senators that it was rejected upon the ground that the subject matter of the
              resolutions was not deemed worthy of the attention of the Senate.
            I do not know, sir, what estimate Senators or politicians may place upon the
              Constitution of the United States, or the Constitution of the State of Indiana, but I
              do know, sir, as I read their plain provisions, that they have been trampled under
              foot by a party, and that these resolutions simply appeal to this General Assembly,
              and to the people of the State of Indiana, its soldiers, its citizens, its men, its
              women, its children; aye, even sir, to its colored inhabitants, (those of them who
              desire to be true citizens of this country, I apprehend wish to come in through the
              open door of the Constitution, and not through a breach in the walls), they appeal to
              all classes to enter their solemn protest to their sister States, to the Congress of
              the United States, to the people of the Union, and to the whole civilized world, to
              repair the bleeding wounds of the Constitution--to assert the liberty and the freedom
              of the white people of this country, who formed this country, and who have to a great
              extent fought its battles and preserved it from anarchy and destruction. Gentlemen on
              the other side of the Senate may treat this matter as disdainfully as they may, in
              these resolutions are contained great truths that will spread from State to State
              until their triumph will be vindicated by the action of the people of the whole United
              States.
            There are three propositions apparent, sir, from these resolutions. The first and
              least is the introduction of negro suffrage amongst us. A provision in the
              Constitution of Indiana is recited, which provision makes the State of Indiana a
              government founded upon the basis of the suffrage of white people and also a negative
              provision that no negro or mulatto shall have the right of suffrage in this State.
              These are provisions of the State Constitution which we have all of us sworn to
              support. They were framed by representative men of the State and have been ratified by
              a vote of the people of the State and whenever the people had a chance, to vote on the
              rights or privileges persons of African descent were to enjoy in this State, the
              majority were overwhelmingly in favor of the provision of the present Constitution. So
              afterwards in 1867, when the simple question of negro suffrage was submitted to the
              people of the Northern States, we find Republican State after State pronouncing
              against it; and it is a historical fact that general Grant could not have received the
              nomination of the Republican party for President in 1868 had it not been for the
              manifest indication of the people of the United States, especially in Republican
              States, that no candidate who was the avowed advocate of negro suffrage would meet
              with their favor and support. I say then, the least question but the first is negro
              suffrage. It has been introduced amongst us. We have had from seven to ten or twelve
              thousand of negro votes in violation of the expressed letter of the State Constitution
              in the late elections, and yet overcoming all this the popular majority was less than
              three thousand. How could they come amongst us ? How has our State Constitution been
              regarded ? How has it been tranpled under foot? The answer is as stated in the
              preamble to these resolutions by virtue of the so-called Fifteenth Amendment to the
              Constitution. It becomes important to us, therefore, to trace its history and know
              whether it has or ought to have in the State of Indiana the vitality of law or of
              Constitutional law.
            It is not negro suffrage alone that is involved in this inquiry. Worse things may
              happen to a people than negro suffrage. There is a far greater evil than universal
              suffrage, including the white, the black, the Chinese, and the only class that seek
              now to be included--the ladies of the country. I 
              say a far greater evil than this is a despotism which disregards fundamental law, the
              constitution of Indiana and the constitution of the United States; and if this
              fundamental law is disregarded, whether it be upon a question of suffrage or upon any
              other question, these acts are revolutionary and void, and if the people desire to
              maintain their constitutional rights they should protest against it and rebuke them,
              and exhaust if necessary, all constitutional repources to reverse them, and when that
              is done beyond that I desire not to go. They have beyond that the right of revolution.
              Whether that is to be invoked or not, is a question to be decided under the
              circumstances at the time it arrives. I say then, sir, that a worse thing than negro
              suffrage has come upon us.
            The second question involved in these resolutions is whether or not the Constitution
              of Indiana is to be effected by its own Legislature, in ratifying amendments to the
              Constitution of the United States, or whether, at the dictation of party, they are to
              be disregarded, and whether the Fifteenth Amendment is to be regarded the law of the
              land or not--whether, or not, it may have received the ratification of three-fourths
              of the States of this Union. This question addresses itself with peculiar emphasis to
              the people of Indiana, as this proud, sovereign State has never been tainted with
              disloyalty--a State which has left its dead upon every battlefield of the Union--a
              State which has its deeds in favor of the Union everywhere recorded; whose every
              village and hamlet cemetery is filled with not unforgotten bones of the loyal dead;
              the banners of whose regiments, pierced with bullets from the enemies' guns, are
              deposited as proud emblems to its loyalty to the Union and the Constitution within the
              walls of this capitol. Has this state the right of a free and independent voter,
              according to the provisions of the Constitution, in accepting or rejecting a proposed
              amendment to the Constitution of the United States? or is the Constitution a dead
              letter to be disregarded and trampled under foot? Are these new rules, and new
              regulations, and new laws made for special purposes, and are we to submit without at
              least a single protest against its illegality and its despotism? That is the second
              question, sir, involved in these resolutions, and one that presses itself with
              peculiar force upon the people of the State of Indiana.
            But, sir, there is another and a greater question involved in the resolutions
              presented, and from which there is no escape, and that resolves itself into this: Can
              the Congress of the United States change the Constitution by its own act? Has it that
              power? No man will pretend that it has. If it has not the right to change the
              Constitution by express act of Congress without any further proceedings, has it the
              right, which resolves itself in the same thing, to propose an amendment to a sovereign
              State--a free elector and voter--and then to say to that sovereign State and that
              voter this proposed amendment you shall ratify, otherwise you shall not be represented
              in the Senate nor in the House of Representatives of the United States? Is there any
              difference? None can be discovered; none can be pointed out. Is that the law in this
              country ? Yet this thing has been done, I say a greater question is involved in the
              resolutions. Can it be done without trampling under foot the Constitution of our
              country, and in the name of elevating millions of Africans to become free men and
              voters, depressing and subjecting millions more to the manor born and make them
              slaves?
            I have said, sir, that these are grave charges, and they are before us. And I speak
              now for no party purposes, but, sir, I speak to vindicate a case of constitutional
              right and the truth of history, which has been belied and misrepresented in the
              pretended accounts of the ratification of of the Fifteenth Amendment within these
              walls. Mr. H. declared that he was prepared with proof to show that the Republican
              party has been false to its every pledge to the people upon this subject; and with
              that object in view, he proceeded to read from the platforms, State and National,
              adopted by that party, and from speeches delivered by its representative men.
            Referring to the pretended ratification at the Fifteenth Amendment by the State of
              Indiana, he read freely from the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS--the official record on
              that subject, as he emphatically declared. His remarks were interrupted by applause on
              several occasions, which was promptly suppressed by the Lieutenant Governor.
            In concluding, he remarked that on Thursday he came into the Senate Chamber prepared
              to discuss these resolutions, and tendered to gentlemen on the other side an
              opportunity for discussion, but they said that they did not desire to discuss it--that
              they had their minds made up; and now he considered it no want of courtesy, in
              concluding this somewhat extended argument, to move the previous question, which he
              did.
            Mr. HOOFER and Mr. GRAY objecting and remonstrating at this course--
            Mr. HUGHES saying that, under the circumstances, he could not, without great
              prejudice to his own interests and perhaps the interests of others, waive the call for
              the previous question; suggested that if a discussion of two or three hours would be
              satisfactory to the other side of the House, he would withdraw the motion, with the
              understanding that at 8 o'clock the vote should be taken; but--
            Mr. BROWN objecting--
            Mr. HUGHES concluded to insist on his motion, if in trying to please one side he
              would displease the other.
            The demand for the previous question was sustained by the Senate--yeas 26, nays
              20.
            The minority report was then rejected by yeas 19, nays 25.
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Megsrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Case, Caven,
                    Fossick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hubbard, Martindale, Miller,
                    Robinson, Scott, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--19.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo,  Bradley, Brown, Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittemore,
                    Dougherty, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg, Henderson, Hughes, Johnson,
                    Keigwin, Laselle, Morgan, Rosebrough, Sarninghausen, Stroud and
                    Williams--25.
                
              
            
            The joint resolution was then adopted by yeas 26, nays 20--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs Alsop, Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown,
                    Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty, Elliott, Francisco, Fuller,
                    Glessner, Gregg, Henderson, Hughes, Johnson, Keigwin. Lasselle, Morgan,
                    Rosebrough, Sarninghausen, Straud and Williams--26.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Case, Caven,
                    Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard, Martindale,
                    Miller, Robinson, Scott, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--20.
                
              
            
            Pending the roll call--
            Mr. BOBO, in explanation of his vote said, this resolution calls for a Convention of
              the States to propose amendments to the Constitution of the United States. The Federal
              Government has said to the States, thus far shall they come and no farther. If a
              Convention of the States be called it would place them in a position to say to the
              Federal Government, thus far shalt thou go and no farther. This, he thought the soul
              of the resolution, and for this reason he voted aye.
            Mr. GRAY, when his name was called, in explanation of his vote said he did not think
              the Fifteenth Amendment legally ratified as he construed the constitution of Indiana
              on the question of a quorum in the Legislature, but declared that he said at the time
              he signed the joint, resolution for ratification on the part of Indiana that inasmuch
              as it was contended by a great many Republicans that, as a majority of the members of
              the Legislature voted for the resolution, the Federal Government would never look into
              the constitution of Indiana for the purpose of seeing whether there was a quorum in
              the Legislature or not. It would be like the other question, as to whether a member of
              the Legislature was eligible to election to a seat in the U. S. Senate. The Senator
              from Jefferson last session [Mr. Cravens,] would not vote for any member of the
              Legislature to fill that office. He refused to vote for Senator Morton, and it is well
              known that the U. S. Senate never looked into the constitution of Indiana. But he was
              compelled to vote against the resolution for another and a greater reason than that,
              and it is because the 13th article of the constitution of the United States was
              ratified in the same manner as the XVth amendment was; Congress required the States to
              ratify it before admitting their Representatives in Congress; and the Fourteenth
              Amendment was ratified in the same manner. And if we declare the Fifteenth Amendment
              null and void, it is understood that human slavery will be put back where it was
              before the war. He voted "no."
            Mr. HUGHES, when his name was called, desired to refute these statements.
            Mr. SARNINGHAUSEN, when his name was called, in explanation of his vote, said he
              should vote "aye" for the same reason, and only for the same reason, given by the
              honorable Senator from Allen and Adams. [Mr. Bobo.]
            The result was then announced as above recorded.
            So the joint resolution passed the Senate.
            On motion by Mr. BROWN his motion to table a motion to reconsider was agreed to.
            And then--
            The Senate adjourned till 10 o'clock to-morrow morning.
          
        

        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            MONDAY, January 30, 1871.
          
          The House met at 2 o'clock P. M., pursurant to adjournment. The order of prayer by the
            Rev. Mr. Chamberlain, of the Fifth Presbyterian Church.
          The journal of Friday's proceedings were read and approved--till--
          On motion of Mr. ABBETT, the further reading was dispensed with.
          
            STATE CLAIMS.
            The SPEAKER announced the order of bills, &c. from the Senate.
            The Senate joint resolution to authorizie the Attorney General to prosecute State
              Claims coming up--
            On motion of Mr. STONE it was referred to the Committee on Public
                Expenditures.
            The SPEAKER then turned to the calendar of the House of Representatives.
            Mr. Zenor's bill [H. R. 88] authoring Coroners to appoint special Constables in
              certain cases coming up--it was laid over on the notion of Mr. Wilson.
          
          
            DISPENSING DRUGS, &C.
            Mr. Hawley's bill [H. R. 119], to regulate the dispensing of drugs, medicines, and
              chemicals, coming up on the third reading in the House of Representatives.
            Mr. Browning and Mr. Ballenger objected generally to some features of the bill.
            It was rejected on the first vote yeas--14, nays 66.
          
          
            COMMERICAL PAPER.
            Mr. Stone's bill [H. R. 72], to amend the 16th section, chapter 6, concerning
              promissary notes, bills of exchange, &c., coming up on the third and last
              reading--
            Mr. STONE explained, that the object of the bill is to require all parties bringing
              suits on notes now collectable under the law merchant, payable in bank, to brings suit
              in the county where the maker resides. The people in every county are compromising
              such suits, rather than go up into a remote part of the State to defend them.
            Mr. BALLENGER. Does the bill provide the restriction in regard to all notes?
            Mr. STONE. Yes; to all cases governed by the law merchant.
            Mr. NEFF gave a case of the evil sought to be remedied. A party from Richmond came
              into Putnam county and sold a thrashing machine right, which turned out to be worth
              less. He took the note negotiable and payable to him, and he went to Richmond and sued
              the note. By this bill the holder would have had to come to Putnam county to bring his
              suit.

            

            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, insisted that every man who is sued on his paper ought to
              have the right to be sued in the county where he resides, and showed the injustice of
              the operation of our commercial laws, which enables parties to negotiate promisory
              notes and compel the makers of them, if they have any defense to go any where in the
              State to defend or to pay their notes at the pleasure of the assignee, and he sighted
              cases of injury and wrong under it, wherein citizens of his own county have been sued
              in Indianapolis on their notes issued at home. As the statute now is the maker of the
              note or any party to it may be sued in the county where the assignor resides.
            Mr. RUDDELL considered that in all actions of debt actions should be brought where
              any of the parties reside. He considered that abuses of the law complained of did not
              grow out of the law itself. It seemed to him that this bill would be an interference
              of very doubtful propriety. It seemed to him that gentlemen, in order to correct an
              evil, are likely to interfere with the commercial relations of all the people of the
              State. It seemed to him to be right, where there are more parties than one to a
              promissory note, that the note may be sued on in any county where any one of the
              several parties may reside, If this is right in a majority of cases of action for
              debt, then it is right in the cases of the character referred to. If gentlemen can
              make this applicable to the venders of patent rights alone who are going about
              fraudulently obtaining signatures to notes payable in bank, knowing that they may
              bring suit in county of the assignor, I should gladly vote for it. But if, in order to
              remedy this one evil, they are going to interfere with our ordinary mode of
              administering justice in the State--making a greater evil than the one they propose to
              remedy--then I must be against it. At present parties may issue their notes, governed
              by the law merchant, and they pass currently as bank paper--as the ordinary currency
              of the country--as currently as bills of exchange. He urged at some length that it
              would not be wise for the destruction of the single evil and abuse of the law by
              patent right venders; it was entirely too much to propose the destruction of the law
              merchant in toto. He hoped gentlemen would consider the bill
              seriously. It seemed to him like revolutionizing all our ideas of commercial law and
              the customs of trade
            Mr.TAYLOR said he should be compelled to vote against the bill for reasons somewhat
              different from those already stated. It was one of the fundamental principles that
              should govern every legislator that laws should be passed on general principles--not
              to meet an emergency. Laws are made for all time to come--and a good law will stand
              the test of time. Now the law merchant, as it has been said, is as old as the common
              law; and it has remained in this country without change by legislation. No Legislature
              from the State of Indiana has ever ventured to make an innovation upon the law
              merchant as we have received it from our ancestors. All the judges and lawyers concur
              in holding it as the wisest and most important part of the law. Mr. T. proceeded at
              some length to show that for the purpose of meeting a temporary emergency it would be
              most unwise, and the General Assembly should not undertake to make the rash innovation
              upon the law merchant which is proposed in this bill.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton. Ought not the judgment to be rendered in the county where the
              property, out of which it is to be made, will be found?
            Mr. TAYLOR. It is not necessary, I think. If the principle of the bill obtains in the
              State, we shall have to make much more radical changes in the law than this bill
              proposes. You will have to repeal the statute by which you may bring suit in any
              county where either of the makers, etc., reside; and you will have to go within as
              many counties as there are, may be, in which these different parties live. Under the
              law, merchant, the original makers and the assignors, are equally liable, and they may
              be sued all together, or any one of them, at the option of the holder of the note. The
              passage of this bill would be to undermine the foundation of our commercial law, and
              unwise in the extreme.
            Mr. BALLENGER dissented somewhat from the remarks of the gentleman from Allen, [Mr.
              Taylor] The statutes in the several States of the Union are uniform as to the law
              merchant. If the maker, acceptor and endorser of a note are all held for its payment,
              it does not follow that they all shall be sued in one action. The laws of the
              different States are not uniform as to this. In this State the acceptor and the drawer
              only shall be sued. They issued the note--the drawer and the acceptor--they are the
              parties looked to for the payment. And there is nothing inequitable in requiring the
              holder of the note to sue on it in the county where they live. But now this kind of
              paper is subject to great abuses. Every lawyer knows that it has become a uniform
              practice to procure sworn assignments to admit of suits being brought in a foreign
              county--a practice harassing to the acceptor and maker, to an indefinite extent. Now
              this bill does not propose to release the endorser at all, but it proposes simply that
              suit shall be primarily instituted against the maker and accepter. They may sue the
              endorser if they wish, but they must do it in his own county. I say this is just and
              right. It is not overturning the commercial law, because it is no part of the
              commercial law that suit shall be brought against all the parties in the same suit.
              All that this bill proposes is, that the maker and acceptor shall be sued in the
              county where they live, and where the consideration was received. When he had
              concluded--
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM took the floor in defense of the bill. If he understood the bill, it
              was to prevent those patent right venders from taking advantage of honest farmers by
              getting their names on commercial paper. He considered that it would make the com-  mercial law all the better, and it would prevent
              impositions upon honest, not ignorant, men.
            Mr. DAVIDSON considered that it did not make any dangerous innovation. It provides
              that the notes shall be sued in the county where the maker lives; neither does it
              drive the holder of the paper into two suits. As the law now stands, the suit may be
              brought where any one of the endorsers resides. This bill does not change any
              principle involved in bills of exchange; but the note holder must sue in the county
              where some one of the endorsers lives. It is time that nearly every question which is
              litigated in promissory note cases arises not between the endorser end the holder, but
              between the maker and the holder. But it is equally true that commercial paper has not
              been until of late years much used in trade, and but few men will be sharp enough to
              take a note in bank. Commercial paper used to be kept strictly among commercial men.
              It is not so now. Every man who makes and sells a plow, a thrashing machine, &c.,
              takes his notes payable in bank; and these notes he assigns, and their makers are
              compelled to pay them wherever be may reside in the State. Now it is this abuse of
              commercial paper in these late days which is contemplated and corrected in this bill.
              It may be that this 16th section sought to be amended is simply the common law; but
              this does not change the fact that there are abuses perpetrated upon unsuspected
              parties, by taking their paper payable in bank, which makes it worth more than the
              original debt for the maker to go to the county where the holder resides. By this
              bill, if the maker of a note wishes to set up a defense, he shall be entitled to do it
              in the county where he resides, and where are his witnesses. He gave examples.
            Mr. STONE, I am not a lawyer--never have been--but do not know what I may be. I am
              sorry to be compelled to differ somewhat from my friends here. I do not want to do
              anything to destroy a good law or a good practice. I do not know what the law on that
              subject was prior to 1861. I find in 1861 that the legislature passed this particular
              section. It's that old--how much older, I don't know. The cases in point of the
              abuses, sought to be remedied in the eastern portion of the State are numerous. Mr. S.
              gave one of these instances in which a farmer was presented with his note in bank when
              he was willing to swear that he never signed it. And the party holding it said to him,
              "this looks very much like a swindle, I confess; but now if you do not pay me I will
              go back into the northern part of the State and sue you, or I will make a composition
              with you now." And this generally ends in a composition which precludes the setting up
              of any defense where fraud has been practiced. This bill was drawn up by a good lawyer
              in my county, and I do not believe it will interfere with the rights or privileges of
              any body or with the law merchant, and I believe it proposes strict justice between
              all persons.
            Mr. SANSBERRY stated the argument in favor of the bill and the objections to it. The
              question litigated on promissory notes was generally as to the consideration--scarcely
              ever as to the assignment. Men in that business will always show that the assignment
              was made in good faith. He rather preferred that the bill should be amended in this
              way: That where a note is given for a patent right it shall not have the dignity of
              commercial paper. That, he thought, would be right enough. But the bill now applies to
              all paper alike. Upon commercial paper there is but one inquiry to be made; that is:
              Is the signature genuine? This being so, even if there was a failure in the
              consideration in it, it would make no difference. The maker can't put that in as
              defense. He considered this was not the section that should be amended, but the sixth
              section of the act of 1861. Let this bill affect vendors of patent rights, and let the
              law merchant alone.
            Mr. ST. JOHN had no reverence for any law that give immunity to fraud, nor for its
              antiquity. By all means the suits on such notes should be in the county when the maker
              resides. He gave cases where parties have been made agents and unwittingly signed
              notes payable in bank, and soon after notified that the the holder was compelled to
              assign them, and they are sued on them in a distant part of the State. The operation
              of this law mentioned in these cases was not fair and equal. In reply to the gentleman
              from Allen [Mr.Taylor] he quotes the authority that no law should exist when the
              reason for it had ceased. He saw no commercial relation that would be affected
              injuriously by the passage of this bill. When he had concluded--
            Mr. SANSBERRY moved to recommit the bill, with instructions to amend so as to make
              the provisions of the bill applicable only to notes given for patent rights, and to
              declare that such notes shall not be considered and treated as commercial paper.
            The motion was rejected.
            The question on the passage of the bill was then taken, and resulted--yeas 61, nays
              5--so the bill passed the House of Representatives.
          
          
            RAILROADS.
            Mr. Hines' bill, [H. R. 79,] to extend the time for the completion of railroads, and
              to legalize the acts of certain railroad directors, coming up on the final
              reading--
            Mr. HINES explained that this is a bill to legalize the acts of the Mt. Vernon and
              Grayville R. R. Co., who have graded and laid down some iron, and have consolidated
              with an Illinois company. It is to give time beyond the two and a half years allowed
              in the first charter; so that if they do not go on and build the road the original
              stockholders in Posey county will have a right to the roadbed. He understood that the
              bill will not interfere with any other railroad. It was a bill of much interest to the
              tax payers of his county, and to the citizens of Mt. Vernon.
            Mr. McDONALD understood that this bill would also secure certain interests repre-  sented here by Mr. Stanley and Mr. Britton in the
              northern part of the State, refering to the Eel River Railroad, whose interests were
              in a similar condition with those of the company prepresented by his friend from
              Posey. [Mr. Hines.] It will equally protect both these interests. We have examined the
              bill carefully in connection with the railroad laws of the State, and we think it is
              right. He hoped the bill would pass.
            Mr. BALLENGER considered that we have had several acts passed, giving a greater
              length of time in which certain railroad corporations might be allowed to complete
              their roads, so that he hardly knew from his imperfect hearing of the bill, as it was
              read, whether he ought to vote for it or not. It seemed to him that these bills have
              been passed too much in the interest of contractors and speculators.
            Mr. McDONALD. This bill is to protect the people against contractors--that do not
              want to complete the roads at all.
            Mr. HOOKER. The people of Posey county were very generally interested in this bill.
              He lived in an adjoining county, and knew that that is the general feeling in
              Posey.
            Mr. MINICH. Does this bill allow all contractors a greater length of time to
              build?
            Mr. HINES (in his seat). It does not apply to the contractors at all.
            The vote on the final of the bill was reported, yeas 55, nays 8; so there being no
              quorum, the bill does not pass.
            The SPEAKER. The bill will lie on the table.
            On motion of Mr. WILSON, at 4:20 o'clock the House adjourned.
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORT.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            TUESDAY, January 31, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A. M., pursuant to adjournment under the rules--the
            Lieutenant-Governor in the chair.
          No one appearing to offer prayers--
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read and corrected.
          Mr. DWIGGINS, Mr. STEELE, and Mr. COLLETT obtained consent to record their votes in
            favor of the adoption of the minority report from the Committee on
              Elections, voted upon yesterday evening, and in opposition to the passage of
            the joint resolution [S. 7], concerning the so called XVth Amendment to the Constitution
            of the United States.
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. CAVEN presented a petition from members of the Builder's Loan Association,
              praying for authority to increase their capital stock.
            Mr. DWIGGINS presented a petition from citizens of Newton county, praying for a law
              for the punishing of persons stealing timber.
            Mr. COLLETT presented a petition from Parke county, praying that no change be made in
              the act which authorizes counties, townships, and towns to aid railroads.
            Mr. HUGHES presented a petition from 600 citizens of Bloomington, Monroe county, on
              the subject of temperance.
            These papers were severally referred to appropriate committees.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. HENDERSON, from the Committee on Corporations, returned the
              bill [S. 14], to encourage manufacturing in Indiana, with a recommendation from the
              majority, that the bill do pass.
            Also, by the same, from the same Committee, Mr. Caven's bill [S. 73] authorizing the
              organization of voluntary associations, with a similar recommendation.
            Mr. CARNAHAN, from the same Committee, returned the bill [S. 61] to provide for
              taxing stock of water work companies, with a similar report.
            Also, by the same, returning the bill[S. 82] to legalize certain donations by boards
              or county commissioners, similar report thereon.
            Mr. ARMSTRONG, from the same Commitee, returned Mr. Hamilton's bill [S. 125] to amend
              the act for the protection of sidewalks, approved March 3, 1869, with a similar
              recommendation.
            Also returning the bill [S. 79] to authorize cities and towns to condemn stone and
              gravel for street repairs, with a similar report.
            Mr. GLESSNER, from the Committee on Organization of Courts of
                Justice, returned the bill [S. 58] amending the Justices' Act of March 11,
              1861, as amended by the act of June 6, 1862, with a recommendation that it lie on the
              table. The report was concured in.
            Mr. DOUGHERTY, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
              reported the bill [S.19] to provide for the relocation of county seats, recommending
              its passage.
            These reports, with the exception named, go to the files under the rule adopted by
              common consent.
          
          
            MICHIGAN CITY HARBOR.
            Mr. BRADLEY, from the select committee thereon, returned the resolution adopted by
              the Common Council of Michigan City in relation to the completion of the Harbor on
              Lake Michigan, at Michigan City, reporting and recommending the adoption of a joint
              resolution [S. 8] in relation to an appropriation by Congress for the completion of
              the Harbor on Lake Michigan at Michigan City; instructing and requesting our
              Representatives in Congress to use all legitimate means to secure an appropriation by
              Congress, of a sum of money sufficient for the completion of said Harbor at Michigan
              City.
            Mr. BRADLEY asked and obtained the consideration of his joint resolution
              instanter.
            And it passed the Senate by yeas 42, nays 0.
          
          
            JEFFERSON CRIMINAL COURT.
            Mr. BROWN, from the Committee on Organization of Courts of Justice, made a report,
              returning the bill [S.105] to abolish  the
              Jefferson Criminal Circuit Court, recommending its passage.
            On his motion the report was concurred in and the bill was read the second time.
            Mr. BROWN, explaining that the Civil Circuit is composed of but four counties
              only,and that the Judge is willing to take the labors of this court, which costs, the
              county from $7,000 to $11,000 a year, and if the bill is to pass it should be passed
              at once, inasmuch as the next term of the Civil Circuit commences in March; he moved
              for a dispensation of the constitutional restriction that the bill may be put upon its
              passage now.
            Pending this vote--
            Mr. HAMILTON, when his name was called, stated that he had paired off with Judge
              Hughes.
            Mr. HUGHES, when his name was called, made the same statement, and announced that he
              relieved Mr. Hamilton from the pair on votes on the interest bill, which he cared
              nothing about.
            The bill, S. 105, was then read the third time and passed the Senate by yeas 40, nays
              1.
          
          
            EVANSVILLE CITY CHARTER.
            Mr. BROWN, from the Committee on Corporations, returned the
              bill.[S. 34,] to amend the Evansville City Charter act, with a recommendation that a
              substitute therefor be adopted which the Committee reported.
            On motion of Mr. MORGAN the report was concurred in and the bill was read the second
              time.
            On the further motion of Mr. MORGAN the constitutional restriction was dispensed
              with--yeas 38, nays 1--and the bill was read the third time and passed by yeas 42,
              nays 0
          
          
            LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
            Mr. HUGHES asked and obtained indefinite leave of absence.
            Mr. MORGAN asked and obtained leave of absence this afternoon for the
                Committee on Reformatory Institutions. The Committee on
                Military Affairs obtained leave of absence for to morrow.
            Mr. Rosebrough obtained leave of absence for the remainder of the week on account of
              sickness in his family.
          
          
            METROPOLITAN POLICE COMMISSIONERS.
            Mr. BROWN, from the Committee on Corporations, returned the bill
              [S. 66] authorizing Metropolitan Police Districts, with a recommmendation that
              "30,000" be substituted for "20,000" inhabitants wherever these figures occur in the
              bill.
            Mr. DITTEMORE moved that the amendment of the committee be concurred in. The motion
              was agreed to by yeas 22, nays 21.
            Pending this vote Mr. ROSEBROUGH, when his name was called, announced that he had
              paired with Mr. Robinson.
            So the amendment was concurred in.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved to indefinitely postpone the bill.
            Mr. BROWN moved to lay this motion on the table.
            Mr. DITTEMORE demanded a call of the Senate.
            The PRESIDING OFFICER directed the call to be made, but--
            Mr. MARTINDALE declaring that the President of the Senate requires consent of a
              majority of the Senate before directing a call to be made,
            The PRESIDING OFFICER so ruled, and directed the Secretary to call the roll to
              ascertain the views of the majority on the question.
            The motion for a call of the Senate was agreed to by yeas 22, nays 21.
            The roll call discovered 43 Senators present and answering to their names.
            On motion by Mr. DITTEMORE, further proceedings under the call were dispensed
              with.
            Mr. Brown withdrawing his motion to lay on the table,
            The motion to indefinitely postpone was agreed to by yeas 22, nays 22, the Lieutenant
              Governor giving the casting vote in the affirmative.
            The vote is as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Case, Caven,
                    Collett, Dwiggins. Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard,
                    Martindale, Miller, Morgan, Scott, Steele. Taylor, Wadge and Wood--24.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown,
                    Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg,
                    Henderson, Johnston, Keigwin, Lasselle, Saringhausen, Stroud and
                    Williams--22.
                
              
            
            So the bill was indefinitely postponed Mr. DENBO explaining his vote as not
              indicating how he will vote on the passage of the bill.
            On motion of Mr. GRAY, his motion to lay on the table a motion to reconsider was
              agreed to without a division.
          
          
            STATIONEEY.
            Mr. HENDERSON offered a resolution authorizing the Chairman of the special
                Committee on the Burson contest, to draw $20 worth of stationery for the
              use of the Committee.
            Mr. SCOTT moved to amend by including in the resolution the Chairman, of the Standing
              Committees--some Chairmen having drawn this amount under a former resolution before it
              was rescinded.
            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to amend the amendment, by striking out "$20," and inserting "$5"
              in lieu.
            This amendment to the amendment was agreed to.
            The amendment as amended was also agreed to.
            The resolution as amended was then adopted.
          
          
            CLERK FOR COMMITTEE.
            Mr. BOBO offered a resolution which was adopted, that the Committee on
                Elections be authorized to employ a clerk.
          
          
            SUPERIOR COURTS.
            Mr. LASALLE, by leave, returned from, the Committee on Organization of
                Courts, the bill [H. R. 58] to establish Superior Courts, with a favorable
              report thereon.

            

            Mr. MARTINDALE. Mr. President, that bill is absolutely essential to the proper
              transaction of business in this county. Over 1,500 suspended cases are now on our
              dockets. The Circuit and Common Pleas Judges here work more days than any judges of
              similar courts in this State; their courts have been almost constantly in session. The
              House of Representatives amended this bill in this particular: as it was introduced in
              the Senate and in the House, it provided that the salary of the Judges should be
              $3,000 each, $2,000 to be paid by the State, and $1,000 by the county. The House a
              mended the bill, so that now $2,600 of the salary is to be paid by the county and
              $1,000 by the State. As was said the other day in a debate on another subject, in this
              county a suit on a common note of hand, where a defense is put in, can not be reached
              under a year's time, and as the matter now stands it is absolutely forbidding citizens
              of this county and parties coming here to collect debts by the litigation of their
              claims.
            Mr. GLESSNER raised the point of order that there was no motion before the
              Senate--
            Mr. MARTINDALE replied that he was reciting reasons for his motion before making it,
              instead of making the motion first, and then giving reasons therefor. He thereupon
              moved that the order of business be suspended in order that the bill may be read the
              second time now.
            The motion was agreed to.
            And the bill, H. R. 58, was read the second time.
            Mr. BROWN moved to strike from the bill the provision that $1,000 of the salary of
              these Judges shall be paid out of the State Treasury.
            Pending the consideration thereof--
            The Senate took a recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Lieutenant Governor resumed at 2 P. M., and announced the question to be on the
              amendment pending at the time of the recess.
            Mr. BRADLEY demanded a call of the Senate.
            It was taken, and discovered but 26 Senators present and answering to their
              names.
            An ineffectual motion was made to adjourn yeas 8, nays 2.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved to dispense with further proceedings under the call.
            A motion to lay his motion on the table was rejected by, yeas 13, nays 17.
            Mr. BRADLEY made an ineffectual motion to adjourn, yeas 10, nays 23.
            An ineffectual motion was made to dispense with further proceedings under the
              call.
            The roll showing a quorum now present--
            On motion, further proceedings under the call were dispensed with.
            Mr. DITTEMORE moved to recommit the Superior Court bill, with instructions to amend
              by striking out $3,000 each for the salaries of the Judges, and inserting in lieu
              $2,000, to be paid out of the County Treasury.
            Mr. MARTINDALE again explained the provisions of the bill.
            Mr. BROWN was not very particular whether this motion to recommit prevailed or
              whether his proposed amendment be adopted; but was sure the bill should not pass with
              this 29th section as it. He declared this bill to be against the provision of the
              Constitution which declares that no local legislation shall be had except in certain
              cases; and this bill, it is not claimed, can be classed amongst the exceptions. The
              provision of the bill makes it applicable to a single city only, though the bill has
              the appearance of a general law on its face. He was always of the opinion that it is
              better not to pass bills that are of a general character on their face but are in
              reality applicable only to certain localities. If the bill is to be passed at all,
              inasmuch as it can only be made applicable to a single locality, the expanse of the
              measure should be borne by the locality which seeks the bill. Some may say $2,000 is
              an insufficient salary, but the law pays Circuit Judges, who have an equal
              jurisdiction with the Court proposed to be established by this bill, but $2,000, and
              if they can travel their circuits upon this salary, it seemed to him that three judges
              who will perform no more service, and who remain at home, should be content with this
              sum, and that it is unwise and unfair to provide that these new officers shall receive
              more than the present judges who perform all the service expected of the three
              proposed to be created by this bill.
            Mr. DWIGGINS thought that inasmuch as Circuit Judges are now paid by the State, it
              matters but little what name is given to this new court, and these officers should be
              paid a fair compensation in the manner proposed in this bill. He favored an increase
              of the pay of judges, and would vote to increase the salary of Circuit Judges from
              $2,000 to $3,000 per annum. He should vote against the amendment to cut down the
              salary.
            Mr. CAVEN defended the bill from the charge of being local in its character. He
              believed and hoped but a short time would elapse before other counties in the State
              would come under its provisions. Hundreds of suits are brought here by residents of
              other counties of this State and people of other States that have claims against
              citizens of this county. So this bill proposes an act for the benefit of the whole
              people, though its beneficial effects, of course, apply more directly to the people of
              Marion county. The Constitution requires that justice shall be executed speedily and
              without delay, and this measure is pressed with that end in view. It is drawn with a
              view to the constitutional provision referred to and is clearly in accordance
              therewith. With regard to the pay, he regarded it as poor economy to pay our judicial
              officers small salaries, and he hoped a general increase would be made at the present
              session of the Legis-  lature. This bill now
              provides that the State pay but $1,000 to each of these Judges, while the State now
              pays Circut Judges $2,000 each. He hoped the motion to strike out would not prevail,
              because the State ought to be willing to pay one third of these salaries; the county
              itself being willing to pay the other two thirds. His view was that the State should
              pay the entire salary, but he would be content with the passage of the bill as it now
              stands.
            Mr. GLESSNER proposed to amend the amendment so as to give the Judges $2,500 each
              $500 only to be paid out of the State Treasury.
            Mr. WILLIAMS was willing the State should pay one Judge at the same rate Circuit
              Judges are now paid. He regarded this as a stepping stone to the raising of the
              salaries of other Circuit Judges in this State.
            Mr. MARTINDALE again insisted that no Judges in the State perform the work the Judges
              in Marion county do; they sit about forty weeks in the year. If we are to have justice
              administered under the constitution, we must have facilities for it. He would be glad
              to have this bill perfected now, though it is not the intention to press its final
              passage to-day. If $2 000 a year is a fair and just compensation for Judges, then the
              proposition by the Senator from Knox [Mr. Williams] is fair and honorable. But the
              people of Indiana are demanding an increase of these salaries--beginning with the
              Supreme Judges and going down. As you increase salaries, just in proportion do you
              increase the capacity of Judges that sit on your benches. You put $500 on each of the
              judicial salaries, and every one would say you do right. He would not favor such an
              increase as would make these offices ones of luxury and ease, but a just and
              reasonable increase is demanded by the people all over the State. Rather than the bill
              should fail he would accept the amendment proposed by the Senator from Shelby [Mr.
              Glessner.]
            Mr. GLESSNER regarded it as well settled that there is but one voice throughout the
              State on the question of Judges' salaries: that they should be increased ; but the
              point is that they expend from $300 to $500 in travelling from one court to another,
              and it is upon this ground it is asked that the salaries should be increased. This
              bill proposes the creation of offices where the incumbent is not called upon to
              travel, and there should be a difference of about $500 in favor of the Circuit Judges
              The Supreme Judges get a salary of $3,000, and they are away from home. If these
              resident Judges get $2,500 it certainly is a sufficient compensation, and the friends
              of the bill ought not to ask more. If this amendment is adopted he should vote for the
              bill, but he would never vote for it as it now stands.
            Mr. GRAY, referring to the Superior Court of Cincinnati, understood the Judges
              received $4,000 a year, and it was looked upon as a Superior Court indeed. Marion
              county prosoees to pay two-thirds of this salary, and is only asking the State to pay
              the other one third ; and it seemed to him we ought not to hesitate in accepting this
              proposition. We ought to pass the bill just as it comes from the House.
            Mr. DITTEMORE, since hearing the amount of business on the dockets of the Marion
              county courts, did not know but that some provision ought to be made for the relief of
              this people here; but was not disposed to vote for the bill as it stands, because it
              opens the door for circuit judges all over the State to demand an increase of
              salaries. These salaries, in some instances, are not, probably, enough; but in others
              it may be too much for the service actually performed. As a general thing the
              compensation is very nearly equal to the services rendered. Then these gentlemen were
              elected with a full knowledge of what their salaries would be, and it would be
              difficult to find an officer from President down who was not of the opinion that his
              pay should be increased.
            Mr. ROSEBROUGH opposed any further patching of our judicial system. Every Legislature
              is more or less afflicted with a disposition to amend and fix up this system. A real
              good can be done by reforming this system, but what good can be accomplished by
              patching it up? His impression was that we have enough courts already organized in
              this State. He believed the people were opposed both to an increase in officers and an
              increase of salaries; and gentleman were mistaken who thought to the contrary. He
              should vote against this effort to add additional officers to those already on the pay
              roll of the State.
            Mr GRAY moved to lay the amendment on the table.
            This motion was rejected by yeas 18, nays 20.
            The amendment, [Mr. Glessner's,] which was entertained as a substitute, was agreed to
              by yeas 20, nays 15.
            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to amend by making the salaries $2,000 each, and that only one
              third be paid out of the State Treasury. Ha desired if an advance of salaries be made
              that it be made so as to affect all judicial officers at once. He was willing the
              State should pay the salary of one of these judges.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR held part of this amendment to be out of order--the Senate
              having just fixed the salary at $2,500.
            Mr. WILLIAMS thereupon withdrew his proposition to amend.
            Mr. BROWN moved to strike out that part of section 29 which provides that any portion
              of the compensation shall be paid out of the State treasury.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR also ruled this amendment out of order, it being a proposition
              which would change the compensation just fixed by the Senate.
            The amendments were ordered engrossed for the third reading.
            
              NEW PROPOSITIONS.
              The following described bills were introduced, read the first time and severally
                passed to the second reading:
              By Mr. BRADLEY, a bill [S.142] to amend 
                section 211 of the general practice and procedure act, and repeal section 216 of the
                same act.
              By Mr. SCOTT, a bill [S. 143] to amend section 311 of the general practice and
                procedure act.
              By Mr. DENBO, a bill [S. 144] to abolish the Common Pleas Courts and the Criminal
                Circuit Courts, transferring the business to Circuit Courts; dividing the State into
                judicial circuits, &c.--making salaries of Judges $3,500.
              Mr. DENBO made an ineffectual motion to lay it on the table and print 200
                copies.
              Mr. DITTEMOEE moved a dispensation of the constitutional restriction that the bill
                may be read by title for the purpose of reference to the Committee on the
                  Organization of Courts.
              The motion was rejected by yeas and nays.
              By Mr. DWIGGINS--a bill [S. 145] fixing the time of holding courts in the 12th
                Judicial Circuit--affecting the counties of White, Newton, Jasper, Benton and
                Tippecanoe--to sit in the latter county so long as the business thereof may
                require.
              By Mr. CASE, a bill [S. 146] to amend section 1 of the act enabling towns to open
                and improve streets and alleys, approved April 27, 1869.
              By Mr. MARTINDALE, (by request, with an accompanying memorial) a bill [S. 147] to
                provide for the publication of the proceedings and allowances of the Boards of
                County Commissioners, and for the publication of the receipts and expenditures of
                township Trustees, and for other purposes.
              Pending the order for the introduction of bills--
            
            
              THE BURSON CONTEST.
              Mr. HENDERSON rose to a privileged question. He wished to return several subpoenas
                in the Burson case, and asked for the issuing of attachments for some persons who
                have disobeyed the summons of the Committee.
              Mr. BROWN moved that the Senate authorize the Committee to issue the
                attachments.
              The motion was agreed to.
            
            
              M. L. BRETT.
              Mr. WILLIAMS presented a memorial from Matthew L. Brett, late Treasurer of State,
                setting forth that $1,000 were overpaid on some large draft or stolen from the State
                Treasury during his term of office; and that $1,000 was subsequently returned to it
                with a scrap of paper, upon which was written the words "credit to the school fund;"
                and praying that the appropriate committee may consider the propriety of reimbursing
                him to the extent of that sum for which he faithfully accounted to his successor in
                office.
              The paper was referred to the Committee on Claims.
              Mr. BROWN moved that a joint resolution [H. R. 10], reported from the House of
                Representatives, but never read in the Senate, be taken from the files and referred
                to the Judiciary Committee.
              The motion was agreed toAnd the Senate adjourned.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            TUESDAY, January 31, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.
          The order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. McKeg, of Anderson.
          The journal of yesterday was read and and approved.
          
            ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS, ETC.
            Mr. Washburne's bill [H. R. 99] to regulate the sale of alcoholic liquors, drugs,
              medicines, etc., coming up in order on the third reading. [Not less than a quart,
              etc.]
            Mr. NEFF called for the reading of the bill; and it was again read through by the
              Clerk. He then said that a bill of that character would be a dead letter. There was
              the druggists to keep a book of records of his sales--labor without a corresponding
              advantage to the public; though it might to acceptable to the smelling committees that
              stir up petty litigations.
            Mr. BARNABY. If the bill were to pass it would inhibit both the sale and the purchase
              of liquor by the poor. It was oblectionable also on temperance principles.
            Mr. BALLINGER was opposed to the bill with his present information.
            Mr. WASHBURN. It provides that if liquor shall be sold in less quantities than a
              quart, it shall be labelled--also any package of poison, &c. The latter would make
              it an easy matter to trace out cases of poisoning.
            Mr. NEFF. Might not the druggist fail or refuse to comply.
            Mr. CALDWELL was opposed to the bill on account of the labor imposed on the
              druggist--as well as on account of the opening of his books to public inspection.
            Mr. BROWNING spoke in favor of the bill. It would afford evidence of many cases of
              poisoning. He had adopted this provision of the bill in his business as a druggest
              without law, and hoped it would pass.
            Mr. FURNAS. The intention was to protect the people--not to stir up law suits. He
              cited cases in which the bill would apply with public advantage. He would vote for a
              bill to label every article sold by druggists, as well as poison. He cared little
              about the registry.
            Mr. BIGGS. This might be a good law; but it might not reach every case. The malicious
              poisoner could give the wrong name as the purchaser. If it could be effective, he
              would be in favor of it.
            Mr. SIMPSON stated specific reasons for opposition to the bill. He would be in favor
              of a bill that would require educated apothecaries.
            Mr. ABBETT should be forced to vote against the bill on account of some objectionable
              features, and with a view to get a better.
            Mr. MAJOR moved to recommit the bill, with instructions to strike out the provision
              with reference to apothecaries.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF this motion was laid on the table.
            The bill was rejected on the final passage--yeas 38, nays 52.
          

          

          
            MUNICIPAL LICENSES.
            Mr. Barnaby's bill [H. R. 126] to amend paragraph 13 of section 53 of the general
              city corporation act coming up--
            Mr. BARNABY said his object was to make the municipal legislation of the State
              uniform, stating cases of abuses under the preset law in regard to inequality with
              reference to licenses, &c. Their charge for licenses should not be higher than
              that provided in the statutes of the State.
            Mr. KNIGHT was opposed to this centralization of power. He believed that the matter
              of taxation should be kept as near to the people as possible.
            Mr. BARNABY'S object was not to prevent the sale of liquor, but to provide that this
              matter of purchase and sale shall be within the reach of the poor, as well as the
              rich. The poor should be cared for as well as the rich.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, showed that, in the end, these licenses went into the School
              Fund, and so the poor were benefitted by it.
            Mr. BIGGS: When it came to the consideration of what would be best, he considered
              that it would be best if every man in the State were too poor to get a license to sell
              liquor. He preferred the freedom of the towns and municipalities, to do as they please
              in this matter.
            Mr. ABBETT should oppose the bill because it looks toward the license system, to
              which he was wholly opposed. He was aware of the principle of monopoly involved. The
              remedy of giving the power to regulate this traffic defeated the object I most
              desired.
            Mr. COX reasoned in favor of the bill--regarded it as one step towards abolishing the
              license system altogether. He would make the traffic a misdemeanor.
            Mr. HAYFES was not afraid to legislate against the traffic in whisky, and his
              constituents, when they look at it is they should, would sustain him in this.
            Mr.NETHERTON spoke against the bill. He would, with the gentleman from Bartholomew,
              oppose all idea of sustaining the traffic by licensing it. Then if any measure come up
              to suppress the traffic, he would be free to support it. But if we can not have
              prohibition, the next best thing is to throw around it all the restrictions we can. If
              the municipalities choose to step in and restrain this traffic as they may be able,
              let them do so.
            Mr. BARNABY said the bill says nothing about license, but requires equality in the
              matter.
            Mr. MITCHELL counselled a good provision against drunkenness--let the people refuse
              to vote for a drunkard.
            Mr. BIGGS. What will you do with that class who are not candidates?
            Mr. MITCHELL. There are very few of them. [Laughter.]
            Mr. McDONALD demanded the previous question, and there was a second, and the main
              question was ordered, whereupon--
            The bill was rejected--yeas 22, nays 72.
          
          
            CORONERS' CONSTABLES.
            Mr. Zenor's bill [H. R. 88] to authorize Coroners in certain cases to appoint a
              constable (which was passed over in the callendar yesterday) having been called up by
              the author--
            Mr. ZENOR explained that it authorizes the Coroner to appoint a constable in cases of
              emergency, and require the papers in the case to be filed in the Clerk's office in
              twenty days.
            The bill was finally passed the House of Representatives--yeas 91, nays 0.
          
          
            MORTGAGE SATISFACTION.
            Mr. Cunnigham's bill [H. R. 67] to amend section 5 of the act concerning
              mortgages--approved May 4, 1852, coming up on the 3d reading--
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, moved that the bill be indefinitely postponed.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF, this motion was laid on the table.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam. This is a bill to make the failure to record the satisfaction
              of a mortgage a felony.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM. The committee to whom this bill was referred, reported in favor of
              its passage. The only change in the law is the limitation of 30 days for the
              satisfaction to be entered--within 30 days after a written demand.
            Mr. BIGGS. It seems to me we have a sufficient law on that subject. The only
              difference between the gentleman's bill and the present law is that it prescribes a
              penalty if the mortgage fail to record the satisfaction within 30 days. All that the
              mortgagor has to do in such cases is to bring suit and recover all his costs. There
              may be numerous instances in which the party could not procure the record of
              satisfaction within the 30 days--he might live hundreds of miles away.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY. But the thirty days begins to run from the time he receives a written
              request.
            Mr. BIGGS. That probably would help the bill a little; still I think the law is ample
              now.
            Mr. BALLENGER. I think it nothing but right that the mortgagee or his assignee,
              having received payment shall enter the discharge on record. Some years ago I gave a
              mortgage on my own property which was assigned to a gentleman in Baltimore--and
              paid--but the record of satisfaction is not yet made. All property under such
              incumbrances ought to be discharged from all liens of record.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. Suppose the gentleman in Baltimore should refuse to enter
              satisfaction, would he be liable under the proposed law?
            Mr. BALLENGER. I understand that he could. It does not make any particular
              difference. It applies as well to non-residents as others.
            Mr. CALKINS. Could you get a requisition as for a misdemeanor?
            Mr. BALLENGER. Just the same.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam. Would it not be just as well to pass a law making it a
              misdemeanor not to pay any debt?

            

            Mr. BALLENGER. Not at all. But there may be a law to compel that to be done which a
              man is legally and morally bound to do. If the law makes this a penal offense, its
              violation becomes an offense against the people.
            Mr. BIGGS. How would you locate the offense?
            Mr. BALLENGER. If the mortgagor resides in Marion county, the violation is there. But
              the general principle remains. This is not a question that addresses itself to us here
              The fact that it is difficult to enforce the law is no argument against its propriety.
              I hope the bill will pass.
            Mr. LINES stated a difficulty in his own experience about getting a release of a
              mortgage on his own farm, from which he would have been relieved, if such a law as
              this had been in force.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter-This bill is not ample enough. It ought to provide for a
              commission to follow up these cases and smell them out. It is novel, and ought to have
              the serious consideration of the House. Can we say here that a man is guilty of a
              misdemeanor, simply because he fails to comply with the request of another party,
              where that party has a legal remedy?
            Mr. NEFF did not suppose this bill would have met with opposition, because it is
              right and proper in itself.
            Mr. CALKINS. Make the law so that a man may come into court and have satisfaction
              entered at the cost of the party.
            Mr. NEFF. If I throw down the fence of my neighbor, I am guilty of a misdemeanor. Am
              I not more guilty if I refuse to enter the satisfaction of a paid up mortgage?
            Mr. McDONALD was astonished at the opposition of the gentleman from Porter, who is a
              lawyer and a very good one. I know this bill strikes right at such men as the
              gentleman from Porter and myself; because if we keep the law as it is we may get a
              good many cases to compel scoundrels to enter satisfaction. It gives us more fees In
              the little county I represent there are individuals who get their pay, and hold back
              the satisfaction out of mere spite; and the mortgagar must commence proceedings and
              pay an attorney's fee of $25. I regard this bill as right and just. It makes dishonest
              men do right. If we can't make them honest we can make them do justice. And if we
              can't reach offenders in foreign States we can reach them at home.
            Mr. BIGGS. I have practiced some seven years in Kosciusko county, and I have never
              had a case to compel satisfaction on a mortgage. So far as our people are concerned
              they always come up like men and enter the satisfaction. I neither oppose nor advocate
              any measures here from personal considerations; but my opposition is, that the party
              has already a sufficient and ample remedy, and that this bill will not reach cases
              beyond the State.
            Mr. CAUTHORN considered the bill right and intended to vote for it. I am sorry the
              gentleman from Porter did not present his amendment in regard to a commission--to hunt
              up those cases. If he had I would have submitted the amendment suggested and appointed
              him on the commission.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. If the gentleman will do so now, I will accept the
              appointment. [Laughter.]
            The bill was then passed the final reading in the House of Representatives, yeas 84,
              nays 9.
          
          
            EXEMPTION LAWS.
            Mr. BIGGS' bill [H. R. 136] to amend section 1 of the act to exempt certain property
              from sale in certain cases, approved February, 1852, coming up on the third
              reading.
            Mr. BIGGS' object was, if possible, to do something for the benefit of the poorer
              classes. The statute now exempts $500 tor the widow, while it allows the husband but
              $300.
            Mr. NEFF was opposed to the bill It was radical--giving $600 instead of $300--
            Mr. BALLENGER. Here is a proposition just doubling the exemption; and bethought it
              would operate against the very class sought to be benefited. It would be against their
              interests in that it would make it difficult for them to obtain credit.
            Mr. BIGGS. Does the gentleman know of any State where the exemption is so low as in
              this State?
            The bill was rejected--yeas 26, nays 65.
            Mr. BROWNING (by consent), from the Committee on Railroads,
              returned Mr. Warrum's bill [H. R. ] to establish uniform rates for railroads, with
              amendments- striking out "three" and inserting ''three and a half," for the maximum
              rate for passengers, with other amendments--and adding a provision to allow the
              railroad company $2 per day for delaying a chartered freight car, and reporting a
              motion to print 200 copies of the bill, with the amendments.
            On motion of Mr. BALLENGER the printing was ordered accordingly.
          
          
            DEFICIENCIES FOR THE BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS.
            Mr. Minich's bill [H. R. 69] making specific appropriations or the benevolent
              institutions of the State coming up on the third reading--
            On motion of Mr. DEFREES the House resolved itself into Committee of the Whole, Mr.
              Defrees in the chair, and took up the consideration of said bill by sections; and
              after some time spent therein, the Chairman reported the bill to the House without
              amendment, recommending its passage.
            Whereupon--
            The bill was finally passed the House of Representatives--yeas 90, nays 0.
            The members of the Committee on Reformatories obtained leave of
              absence till tomorrow.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM (by consent) submitted a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing
              the Doorkeeper to enlarge the Speaker's table for the accommodation of the clerk.
          
          
            RAILROADS.
            Mr. Hines' bill [H. R. 79] to extend the  time
              for the completion of certain railroads and to legalize the acts of their Boards of
              Directors--[it extends the time five years] coming up (it having failed for want of a
              quorum yesterday), was finally passed the House of Representatives--yeas 90, nays
              5.
          
          
            MEMORY OF HON. H. D. WASHBURN.
            Mr. WHITE submitted the following:
            
              
                
                  WHEREAS, On Thursday the 26th inst., the Hon. H. D Washburn,
                    late Representative in Congress from this State, was removed from our midst by
                    death: therefore,
                  Be it resolved by the Home of Representatives of the State of
                      Indiana, That in the late General Washburn we recognize a man of sterling
                    qualities generous and noble, a gallant soldier and a kind friend.
                  Resolved That this House has learned with sorrow of the death
                    of Hon. H D. Washburn and do hereby extend to the relatives and friends of the
                    deceased our most sincere and heartfelt sympathy in their bereavement.
                  Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be forwarded by the Speaker of this
                    House, to the family of the deceased.
                
              
            
            It was adopted by an unanimous rising vote.
            And then the House took a recess till 2 o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed the chair at 2 o'clock P. M.
            Mr. HAYNES (by consent) submitted the memorial of Matthew L. Brett, formerly
              Treasurer of State, with reference to a lost one thousand dollars, asking for
              investigation thereof on the premises suggested.
            It was referred to the Committee on Claims.
            Mr. TEBBS (by consent) presented a claim for $24 40 for digging a military well in
              the fairgrounds of Dearborn county.
            
              SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON EQUALIZATION OF RAIL-ROAD
                  TAXES.
              The SPEAKER announced the Special Committee to Equalize Tax on
                  Railroads, as follows: Messrs. Conner, Miles, King, Davidson, Stone,
                Gentry, Coggswell, Abbett, Warrum, Defrees and Wood.
              Mr. HOLLAND presented the memorial of Henry E Smith and others, of Indiana, against
                the extravagance and mismanagement in the institution for the education of the
                blind. He also offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                  Committee on the Benevolent Institutions to thoroughly
                investigate the alleged mismanagement, corruption and extravagance in the
                institution for the education of the blind.
              Mr. MITCHELL presented a temperance petition, and also a petition from citizens of
                Monroe county for a change in the school law, which were referred to the appropriate
                committees.
              On motion of Mr. SIMPSON, Senate bill 105, to abolish the 29th Judicial Circuit
                Court (Jefferson Criminal Circuit Court) and to transfer its business to the Circuit
                Court, to provide for the jurisdiction of the Circuit and Common Pleas Courts of
                Jefferson county, in cases of felony and misdemeanors, and matters connected
                therewith, was read the first time and referred to the appropriate committee.
            
            
              DOG LAW.
              Mr. BROWNING'S bill [H. R. 9], to repeal the dog law and revise the law of 1852,
                coming up in the regular order on the third reading.
              Mr. MITCHELL desired the repeal of the dog law, because it led to cases of moral
                perjury. He would make the owner of a sheep-kiliing dog responsible for the damage
                he may do.
              Mr. KENNEDY represented those who sent him here, and quite a large majority of them
                were opposed to the repeal of the dog law. His constituents would not swear falsely
                even to convict a dog.
              Mr. OATLEY said farmers had other things to protect as well as sheep; and he even
                looked upon dogs themselves, indirectly, as for the protection of sheep by too
                harrassment and destruction of foxes and wolves. For several reasons he was in favor
                of this repeal. Then, hounds scarcely ever destroy sheep, and it takes about a half
                a dozen of them a couple of days to catch one fox; and the tax on these six hounds
                would be about $11 a year--more than all the stock of many a farmer.
              Mr. MAJOR was not yet prepared to vote for the repeal of the dog law. Dogs were not
                yet diminished in his county. There were some 2,000 or 2,500, It seemed like a
                question between dog meat and mutton; and he preferred the latter. He was owner of
                two dogs and one sheep--and preferred the sheep.
              Mr. HAYNES referred to the enormousnumber (and their value) of sheep that have been
                killed in the State within the past few years; and with this fact before his mind he
                was opposed to the proposed repeal of the dog law.
              Mr. BROWNING sought the protection of sheep by the repeal of the dog law. The red
                foxes were destroying more sheep than all the dogs. Formerly we taxed property ad
                valorem; now we tax according to the number (not the value) of dogs. He showed that
                the very title of the present act is a libel; it is an act to encourage (not to
                discourage) the keeping of useless and sheep-killing dogs.
              Mr. CUNNINGHAM stated as a reason for voting for this repeal, because it led to
                corruption and fraud. He was in favor of taxing property according to its value.
              Mr. ZENOR. The present dog law has not had the desired effect. He considered also,
                that the law is unconstitutional.
              Mr. LINES was advised by his constituents to let the dog law stand as it is.
              Mr. McDONALD also was satisfied with the dog law, and satisfied with the revenue
                derived under it. He should vote against the bill.
              Mr. FURNAS was also satisfied with the law, endorsing the remarks of Mr. Lines and
                Mr. McDonald, and added and enforced the revenue argument, stating the amount
                derived from the taxation of dogs to be $172,378 75.
              Mr. CORNER said that there were more lambs killed by foxes within the last year,
                   in his county, than by the dogs within the
                last five or six years. Some dogs are valuable; one rat terrier might kill $50 worth
                of rats in a year. [Laughter], The rats are also doing more harm in the State than
                all the sheep-killing dogs.
              The bill failed on the final reading yeas 47, nays 39--for want of the
                Constitutional majority of 51.
            
            
              INVESTMENT OF THE SINKING FUND.
              Mr. Ruddell's sinking fund investment bill [H. R. 181] coming up on the second
                reading--
              Mr. RUDDELL submitted a substitute therefor [H. R. 204] to authorize the State
                Auditor to loan all the moneys in his hands belonging to the Sinking Fund under the
                provisions of the law for the control of the College Fund.
              Mr. RUDDELL said there is now about $600,000 belonging to this fund. That amount
                invested as proposed would give to the schools of the State about $50,000 a year;
                and it should be invested immediately. The only difference of opinion that can arise
                must be as to the mode of investment--the securities, promptness of payment, and
                rate of interest. If we invest in United States securities we will have to pay a
                premium, and the value of these securities will be diminished as we approach special
                payments. But the chief objection to such an objection is in the withdrawal of so
                large an amount of money from our State. The substitute for the bill proposes the
                best investment that can be made, not excepting United States bonds. It proposes to
                invest under the provisions of the college fund bill, which prescribes real estate
                securities, unencumbered, at the appraised value in double the amount loaned; so
                that it will always be worth more than the amount loaned. Some have said that the
                interest should be 10 per cent. instead of 9. Others think 7 or 8 per cent. would be
                sufficient. I have tried to adopt the medium. We know that business men are paying
                12 per cent. in bank, which amounts in the end to about 14 per cent. per annum. Then
                if business can afford to pay 14 per cent., they can certainly afford to pay 9 per
                cent. to the school fund; and it seems to me that they will very cheerfully pay 9
                per cent. to a fund of this character--a fund arising from the taxation of the
                people themselves and set apart for the education of their children. Then this is a
                most important provision, which requires the investment of the fund at home. The
                securities are ample; and it is provided that the investment shall be made
                immediately : and that from time to time as the money comes in it shall be invested.
                As I understand, under the law of 1867 there is a very considerable enlargement of
                this fund, making it, perhaps, nearly a million of dollars; and it occurs to me that
                it ought to be invested immediately, and not to be left in the hands of the
                accounting officers as a temptation to loan it on their own account.
              On motion of Mr. DEFREES the subject was referred to the Committee on Ways
                  and Means.
            
            
              REPEAL OF THE DRAINAGE CORPORATION ACT.
              Mr. Wood's bill [H. R. 23] to repeal the act, to authorize incorporated companies
                for the construction of levees, dykes and drains, approved May 22d, 1869, coming up
                on the third reading--
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, stating that this is a law particularly desirable to his
                people, said it is simply to repeal the law of 1869, saving the rights of all
                incorporated companies whose work in under twenty miles in length, in which they
                have invested under that law as their charter. He proceeded in a speech at length to
                review the act of 1869, and expose it as a piece of hasty and, in many particulars,
                unwise and improvident legislation, which is reserved for correction and future
                publication.
              Mr. TAYLOR followed, admitting the force of the criticisms and the exceptions taken
                to the act of 1869, and that it ought to be amended. But he being unwilling to
                repeal the law we now have without the assurance of the enactment of some better
                guarded law on this subject. And because the present bill is not sufficiently
                guarded to save the rights of some half a dozen companies organized in his region
                under tho act of 1869--after debate with Mr. Calkins--he moved that it be recommited
                to the Committee on Drains, with instructions to report s bill,
                leaving out the objectionable features of the act of 1869.
              Mr. CALKINS hoped the motion would be voted down.
              Mr. BUTTERWORTH. This law of 1869 is considered, in my region, as a great outrage;
                yet I believe the people in Northern Indiana, require a corporation drainage
                law.
              The SPEAKER. (Mr. McDonald in the chair.) The motion is not debateable.
              Mr. TAYLOR'S motion was rejected, and the question recurred on the passage of the
                bill.
              Mr. RUDDELL made an ineffectual motion to adjourn.
              Mr. WILSON demanded the previous question, and under its pressure the bill was
                finally passed the House of Representatives--yeas 67, nays 16.
              Mr. BROWNING. As this bill needs amendment, I must vote no.
              Mr. DEVOL. If the Committee on Drains will report the bill which
                we need, I will vote for this.
              Mr. KNIGHT, by way of explanation, called for the reading of the saving clause in
                the bill: "Any company whose lines are under 20 miles shall have saved to them all
                the rights they may have acquired under the act hereby repealed." He voted aye.
              Mr. McDONALD. I can't vote for this bill in its present shape. It would be an
                outrage upon my people. But I do hope the drainage law will yet get into the hands
                of a committee that will perfect it.
              Mr. NETHERTON, explaining his vote, said the people he represented would accept  the position taken by the gentleman from Porter,
                [Mr. Calkins] on this bill. Perhaps in the county where he lives there is morelow
                land which needs draining than there is in any other county represented on this
                floor, and a year or two ago they rejoiced in the passage of an act to enable the
                people to take hold of this matter of drainage. And as the question is now upon the
                repeal of that law, and locking at its unequal and unjust operations, I must vote
                aye, while I believe the people with me are willing to do almost anything for the
                purpose of draining the valley of the Kankakee.
              Mr. ST. JOHN. After the remarks of the gentleman from Allen [Mr. Taylor] I shall
                vote no.
              The SPEAKER then announced the vote as above--
              And so the bill passed.
              On motion of Mr. MINICH, the members of the Committee on Benevolent
                  Institutions, obtained, leave of absence for to-morrow.
              On motion of Mr. McFARLAND, the Committee to visit the Soldiers' Home obtained
                leave of absence for to-morrow.
            
            
              IRON-CLAD NOTE.
              Mr. BALLENGER'S bill, [H. R. 75],making illegal and void and all contracts to pay
                attorney's fees, by the promissor in such contracts coming up--the question being on
                the amendments offered by Mr. Defrees and Mr. Biggs, heretofore described--they were
                successively laid on the table.
              Mr. McDONALD (by unanimous consent) introduced a bill [H. R. 205] releasing the
                interest of the State of Indiana in the land formerly owned by Ralph Turner,
                deceased, to the uses and trusts mentioned in the will of Jane Turner, deceased. He
                said he introduced this bill with the understanding that it should go to the
                  Committee on the Judiciary. It was so referred.
              Mr. GUTHRIE made an ineffectual motion to adjourn.
              Mr. Taylor's bill [H. R. 63] to amend sections 62, 63, 65, 66, of the general city
                corporation act of March 14, 1867, coming up on the second reading--
              Mr. TAYLOR said this bill was drawn by Mr. Zollars; that the bill he introduced was
                somewhat different in the provision; that part of the cost of the streets so laid
                out should be paid by the property holders benefited by the improvement. He proposed
                an amendment.
              Pending which, at 5:35 o'clock the House adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            WENDESDAY, Feb. 1, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock--the LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR in the Chair.
          Prayers were offered by Rev. Dr. TREADWDLL WALDRON, Rector of St. Paul's Cathedral.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were being read till--
          On motion of Mr. BEESON the further reading thereof was dispensed with.
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. DWIGGINGS presented a petition from citizens of Benton and Jasper counties,
              praying for amendment of the road law so that roads shall be opened only on county or
              township lines.
            Also, a petition praying that each township or ward shall decide by vote as to
              whether they want alcoholic liquors sold in the limits thereof.
            Mr. GREGG presented a paper on the subject of insurance which was not read.
            These were severally referred to appropriate committees.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. WILLIAMS, from the Committee on Finance returned the bill [S.
              116] to authorize the Auditor and Secretary of State to organize the two Houses of the
              Genesal Assembly, with an amendment.
            Mr. HOOPER, from the same committee, returned the bill [S. 120] for the relief of
              Samuel B. Davis, late Treasurer of Vermillion county, with a favorable report thereon,
              Mr. Gleesner dissenting.
            These reports go to the files under a rule adopted by consent.
          
          
            EQUALIZATION OF TAXATION.
            Mr. WILLIAMS, from the same committee, returned the House concurrent resolution in
              relation to the proceedings of State Board of Equalization, recommending concurrence
              therein. The resolution authorizes a joint committee of four Senators and seven
              Representatives to consider this matter and also the subject of assessment and
              equalization of the taxation of railroads.
            The resolution was concurred in by the Senate.
          
          
            EX GOVERNOR A. P. WILLARD.
            Mr. WILLIAMS, from the same committee, returned the concurrent resolution of the
              House of Representatives appropriating $1,000 for a monument to the late Governor
              Ashbel P. Willard.
            Mr. MARTINDALE asked for time to prepare an amendment to include a similar
              appropriation for ex-Governor Jennings.
            Mr. GREGG thought it proper for Indiana to make a reasonable contribution towards the
              improvements contemplated around the grave of General Harrison at North Bend. Less
              than eighteen months ago he visited the place, and the tomb had gone to decay-fallen
              to pieces. It is understood that there is a movement now being made by the State of
              Ohio to improve that spot, and inasmuch as General Harrison was the first Governor of
              this State, it would be very proper for Indiana to aid Ohio in making his grave. He
              hoped, if time be given, the Senator [Mr. Martindale] will include this object in his
              amendment also.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved to recommit the resolution with instructions to include Governor
              Jennings in the provisions of the resolution, and consider the propriety of assisting
              Ohio, as suggested by the Sentator from Dearbon, Mr. Gregg.
            Mr. MORGAN suggested that a joint resolution be passed memoralizing Congress with
              reference to ex-President Harrison's tomb and if the Federal Government is not able
              Indiana will lend a helping hand.
            The motion to recommit was agreed to.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            Mr. HENDERSON, from a majority of the Committee on Fees and
                Salaries, returned the bill [S. 4] prescribing certain duties of county
              officers, fixing their compensation, etc., recommending amendments thereto.
            Mr. MARTINDALE, in behalf of a minority of said committee, submitted a report
              recommending the passage of the bill S. 3, and that the bill S 4 be laid on the table.
              Mr. M. asked that the two bills be printed--two hundred copies of each--and that they
              be made the special order for Tuesday next, at 2 o'clock.
            It was so ordered by the Senate.
          
          
            THE FRANKING PRIVILEGE.
            Mr. BEGGS, from the Committee on Federal Relations, returned the
              joint resolution [H. R. 9] looking to the abolishment of the franking privilege,
              instructing and request-  ing our Congressmen to
              use all their influence to secure the passage of a law for this purpose, recommending
              its passage.
            The joint resolution was passed the Senate yeas 30, noes 4.
            Mr. GREEN and Mr. WADGE, explaining their negative votes, believed the franking
              privilege to be one of the greatest means by which information is transmitted to the
              people; and believing also that the privilege is very much abased, they thought a
              corrective might be applied.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. GRAY, from the Committee on Finance returned the bill [S. 87]
              to amend an act to provide a treasury system for the State of Indiana, recommending
              the indefinite postponement thereof.
            Mr. LASALLE, from the same committee, returned Mr. Armstrong's bill [S. 71] to
              establish a legal rate of interest, with a similar report.
            Mr. GLESSNER, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
              returned Mr. Beeson's bill [S. 67], with a favorable report thereon.
            Mr. BEESON, from the same committee, returned the bill [S. 118] with a similar
              report.
            Mr. FOSDIOK, from the same committee, returned the bill [S. 7], with amendments.
            These reports go upon the files under a rule adopted by common consent.
            Mr. BEESON, from the same committee, returned the bill [S. 62] to authorize township
              aid in the erection of bridges, recommending that it lie on the table. The report was
              concurred in.
            Subsequently, on motion by Mr. BROWN, it was restored to the files.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            On motion by Mr. CAVN, the order of business was suspended, and the following
              described bills for acts were introduced, read the first time, and severally passed to
              the second reading--except in the case named.
            By Mr. CAVEN, a bill [S. 148] providing for a general system of common schools in
              cities of 3,000 or more inhabitants.
            By Mr. GRAY, a bill [S. 149] to amend section 14 of an act approved May 12, 1862,
              concerning promissory notes and bills of exchange, allowing three days grace.
            By Mr. DENBO, a bill [S. 150] supplemental to the act approved June 7,1858,
              concerning the election of clerks of courts.
            By. Mr. GLESSNER, a bill [S. 151] to legalize certain acts of corporations, organized
              or attempted to be organized under the flank, gravel and macadamized road acts o May
              12,1852, and acts supplemental thereto.
            Mr. GREEN moved that the constitutional restriction be dispensed with, in order that
              the bills may be read by title and referred to the appropriate committee, which is now
              about ready to report on a similar bill.
            The motion was agreed to, by yeas 36,nays 3.The bill was then read by title only, and
              referred to the Committee on Roads.
            By Mr. COLLETT, a bill [S. 152] to extend the time for the completion of railroads in
              cases where the time has before been extended and which are not yet completed, 2 years
              from December 31, 1871, provided they have expended $2,000 per mile for the entire
              length of the road.
            By Mr. COLLETT, a bill [S. 153] to provide for the organization of an experimental
              school for the instruction of feeble minded children--the State officers to conduct
              and carry on such school at some suitable point in this State, provided their
              expenditures shall be limited to twenty blank thousand dollars.
            By Mr. GLESSNER, (by request,) a bill [S. 154] to legalize articles of association of
              all turnpike or gravel road companies formed or attempted to be formed under the acts
              of 1852 or 1865.
            By Mr. DENBO, a bill [S. 155] to enforce the collection of fees taxed against
              defendants convicted of an offense and sent to the penitentiary--the convict to work
              out the cost at the rate of 75 cents per day, in addition to the term of
              imprisonment.
            By Mr. CAVEN, a bill [S. 156,] to amend sections 2 and 4 of an act for the
              continuance of building fund and loan associations, approved March 4, 1857.
            Mr. CAVEN, stating that a few days since he prespented a petition on this subject,
              which was sent to the appropriate committee, and as the petitioners are anxious, he
              moved for a dispensation of the constitutional provision that the title may be read
              and the bill referred to the same committee.
            The motion was agreed to--by yeas 37, nays 4.
            The bill was accordingly read by title only and referred to the Committee on
                Corporations.
            By Mr. DENBO, a bill, [S. 157,] to authorize railroad companies to construct branch
              lines, and grant to other roads the right of way over their lines.
            Mr. DENBO, because of the anxiety for the passage of the bill in his locality, moved
              for a dispensation of the constitutional restriction, that the bill may be read by
              title and referred.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 38, nays not announced. Accordingly the bill was
              read by title only, and referred to the Committee on
              Corporations.
            By Mr. HUBBARD. A bill [S. 158,] to amend Section 17 of an act fixing the times of
              holding the Common Pleas Courts of this State, approved March 5, 1859--affecting the
              counties of Elkhart, St. Joseph and Laporte--to set three weeks if the business
              require it.
            By Mr. BOBO. A bill [S. 159,] to amend Section 26 of the general city incorporation
              act, approved March 14, 1867.
            Pending the introduction of bills--
          
          
            AID TO RAILROADS.
            Mr. BROWN, by consent, returned from the Committee on
              Corporations, Mr Taylor's bill [S. 106] to repeal the act approved  May 12, 1869, authorizing county and township aid
              to railroads, recommending the indefinite postponement thereof.
            Mr. BROWN moved to concur in the report.
            This motion was agreed to by yeas 27, nays 12, as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Andrews, Armstrong, Beggs. Bobo, Bradley,
                    Brown, Carnahan, Cave, Collett, Denbo, Dittemore, Dwiggins, Elliott, Fosdick,
                    Francisco, Green, Gregg, Henderson. Hooper, Johnson, Lasselle, Miller, Morgan,
                    Steele, Stroud, Williams and Wood--27.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Beardsley, Beeson, Caven, Glessner, Gray,
                    Hess, Hubbard, Martindale, Robinson, Scott, Taylor and Wadge--12.
                
              
            
            On motion by Mr. BROWN, his motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
          
          
            IMPROVEMENT OF NAVIGATION.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR laid before the Senate a message from the Governor, transmitting
              a communication from the Pittsburgh Coal Exchange, on the subject of establishing a
              system of lights, buoys and channel marks on western rivers. His Excellency recommends
              the passage of a joint resolution memorializing Congress on this subject.
            These papers were referred to the Committee on Federal
              Relations.
          
          
            THIRD JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the bill [H. R. 3] to fix the times for holding the
              Circuit Court in the several counties composing the Third Judicial Circuit, was taken
              up, and being read by title only--
            Mr. WILLIAMS stating that it was not satisfactory to all parties concerned, moved
              that it lie on the table.
            The motion was agreed to.
            And then came the recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at 2 o'clock P. M. and announced the order
              of business.
            Mr. BRADLEY, by leave, submitted a report from the Committee on
                Education, returning the bill, [H. R. 38], to legalize the acts of the
              Board of Trustees of Gosport, recommending passage.
            Mr. SCOTT, declaring this bill to be of local interest and only intended to correct
              an erroneous action in relation to school tax--the school in that town will have to be
              closed unless this legislation is had--moved that the Constitutional restriction be
              dispensed with, in order that the bill may be pressed to its final reading and passage
              today.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 36, nays not announced.
            The bill was read the third time and finally passed by yeas 37, nays 1.
            
              INVESTMENT OF THE SINKING FUND.
              Mr. JOHNSTON, by leave, introduced a bill [S. 160] to provide for the loaning on
                real estate securities the monies belonging to the Sinking Fund now on hand or
                hereafter to be received--the interest to be paid over to the Treasurer of State
                semi-annmally.
              It was read the first time, and--
              Mr. WILLIAMS, by leave, introduced a bill [S. 161] to amend section 6 of the act to
                provide for the custody of notes, bonds and mortgages arising directly out of the
                loans, etc., heretofore made by the Boards of Sinking Fund Commissioners, etc., to
                provide for the management of said loans, etc., etc., approved in 1867to be loaned
                to the citizens of the several counties by the County Auditors and Treasurers.
              On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, the constitutional resolution was dispensed with--yeas
                37, nays 0--the bill S. 160 was read by title, and referred to the
                  Committee on Finance.
              On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the same proceedings were had in reference to his bill,
                S. 161.
            
            
              PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
              Mr. DENBO, by leave, presented a petition, signed by a largo number of citizens of
                Washington county, on the subject of temperance.
              Mr. COLLETT, by consent, presented a petition praying for the increase of salaries
                of Judges, from citizens of Vermillion county.
              These petitions were referred without reading.
              The bill, S. 11, to amend the 9th section of the act approved March 11, 1867, for
                the reclamation of swamp lands, coming up in regular order, it was read the second
                time.
              Mr. GREEN moved its reference to the Committee on
                Corporations.
              Mr. JOHNSTON resisted the motion, inasmuch as the Committee on
                  Agriculture has examined the bill and recommended its passage without
                amendment.
              Mr. GREEN was actuated by an anxiety to get all the bills affecting this subject
                before one committee.
              The motion to refer was rejected.
              The bill was then ordered engrossed for the third reading.
            
            
              CASS, MIAMI, AND PULASKI.
              Mr. Lasalle's bill [S. 23] to constitute the 25th judicial district, coming up in
                regular order, with a committee amendment, extending the term in Miami county--
              It was read the second time.
              The committee amendment was concurred in.
              Mr. LASALLE proposed an amendment attaching the county of Pulaski to this
                district.
              This amendment was agreed to.
              On motion by Mr. LASALLE, the constitutional restriction was dispensed with yeas
                39, nays 0, and the bill finally passed the Senate by yeas 41, nays 0.
            
            
              ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH PROPERTY.
              Mr. Bobo's bill [S. 29] to provide for the holding of Roman Catholic churches,
                seminaries, cemeteries, &c., coming up it was read the second time and ordered
                engrossed for the third reading.
            
            
              TWENTY-EIGHTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
              Mr. Glessner's bill [S. 32] to fix the time of holding Circuit Courts in the
                Twenty-eighth Judicial Circuit was read the second time.

              

              On motion by Mr. GLESSNER, the constitutional restriction was dispensed with yeas
                38, nays 0, and the bill was read the third time and passed the Senate by yeas 41,
                nays 0.
            
            
              DELINQUENT TAX LIST.
              Mr. Denbo's bill [S. 36],prescribing the duties of County Auditors in making out
                and publishing the delinquent tax list and fixing compensation for publishing the
                same, was read the second time and ordered engrossed for the third reading.
            
            
              EXEMPTION--$500.
              Mr. Martindale's bill [S. 38 ] to amend the act of February 17, 1852, to exempt
                property from sale in certain cases--exempting $500 worth of property and the family
                burying ground--was read the second time and ordered engrossed.
            
            
              STONE AND GRAVEL.
              Mr. Armstrong's bill [S. 79] to authorize cities and town to condemn stone and
                gravel within 1 1/2 miles of their limits with which to improve streets and alleys,
                was read the second time.
              Mr. GRAY, regarding some provisions of this bill as very objectionable, moved to
                lay it on the table.
              The motion was rejected by yeas, 4; nays, 32.
              Mr. STEELE moved to amend by striking the words "stone and."
              The amendment was rejected.
              The bill was then ordered engrossed for the third reading.
            
            
              CHANGE OF VENUE.
              Mr. STEELE'S bill [S. 35] to amend the 207th section of the general practice and
                procedure, act of June 18, 1852, was read the second time with a committee
                amendment, appropriately inserting the words "unless the application be made prior
                to the day set for trial,&c."
              Mr. STEELE explained that in civil causes--the Court has now no discretion when the
                affidavit is filed, as to a change, and if any discretion be given it should be in
                civil practice, he thought. He gave instances of hardships arising out of the fact
                that the Court has no discretion; and believed this bill would, in many cases,
                prevent moral purjury. He recited the practice in the Courts of his neighborhood,
                and declared it sometimes the case that parties would abandon suits rather than go
                to the trouble and expense of following them from place to place. He resisted the
                amendment of the Committee, believing it would defeat the object of the bill and
                prevent the Court exercising the discretion desirable, because these changes are
                frequently asked for on affidavit when there is really no cause.
              Mr. HOOPER explained the view of the committee to be that this proposed innovation
                should not be made at once. He admitted parties do take advantage of the statute,
                but thought honest parties ought to have one chance at least to get out of the
                county. The amendment provides that the matter shall be discretionary with the court
                unless the affidavit be made before the day set for trial; and if it is made after
                the day set for trial the applicant must disclose the time when the facts upon which
                his affidavit rests were discovered. He thought the amendment right and proper, and
                as much of an inovation as ought to be made at this time.
              Mr. MARTINDALE declared that the present statute is used daily to defeat the ends
                of justice, and he questioned whether the proposed amendment would not defeat the
                intended operation of the bill. He believed the bill a good one, but was opposed to
                the committee amendment.
              Mr. BROWN was opposed to the bill, but if it was to pass he desired it should pass
                with the amendment proposed by the Judiciary Committee of the
                Senate. He gave reasons why this discretion is more just in criminal than in civil
                causes. He saw no reason for interfering with the law as it now exists--no need for
                legislation on this subject.
              Mr. GREEN testified to the truth of the statement that the present law is
                frequently abused; and regarded the amendment as intending to put these civil cases
                on the same footing with criminal causes. He favored the passage of the bill as
                originally introduced, and hoped the amendment would not be adopted.
              Mr. LASALLE also favored the original bill and opposed the amendment.
              Mr. MARTINDALE moved to lay the amendment on the table.
              The motion was agreed to upon a division--affirmative 18, negative 14.
              Mr. GRAY moved to amend by providing that the affidavit shall be filed before the
                first day of the court.
              Mr. BROWN opposed this amendment, because before the first day of the court the
                party may have no reason, but if his cause be set down on the 20th day of the term,
                something may arise in that time which, would be a good cause upon which to found an
                affidavit for change of venue.
              Mr GRAY insisted if a party knew of prejudice at all it would be known before the
                first day of the term, but he withdrew his amendment.
              The bill was then ordered engrossed for the third reading.
            
            
              WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
              The bill [S. 131] supplemental to the act of December 18, 1865, on the valuation of
                railroads:
              The bill [S. 132] to amend the act authorizing land assessment for road
                purposes;
              The bill [S. 133] declaring ineligible to office habitual drunkards;
              The bill [S. 134] supplemental to the Supervisor's act;
              The bill [S. 135] prescribing the manner of advertising Sheriff's sales;
              The bill [S. 136] to fix the time of courts in the Eighth Judicial Circuit;
              The bill [S. 138] amending section 22 of the act concerning enclosing trespassing
                animals and partition fences;
              The bill [S 139] to amend section 135 of the decedent's estate act of June 17.
                1852;
              The bill [S.140] to prohibit catching of fish;
              Were severally read by title only, and referred to appropriate committees.
            

            

            
              RELOCATION OF COUNTY SEATS.
              Mr. BROWN called up his bill [S. 19] to provide for the relocation of county seats
                and for the erection of county buildings, in such cases, and moved for a
                dispensation of the Constitutional restriction that it may be read the second time
                by title only.
              The motion was agreed to by yeas 33, nays 1.
              The bill was read by title only, when--
               Mr. ANDREWS moved to amend by substituting "500" for "100" signers to the petition
                for relocation.
              It was agreed to by consent.
              He also moved to strike out the words "by such election" in section 11; which would
                leave the county to pay the expense of the election instead of the petioners.
              Mr. ANDREWS regarded some of the provisions in this bill as good, and he would like
                to see them pass; but some of them are wrong and in direct violation of the spirit
                of our Republican and Democratic institutions.
              The bill renders the election almost impracticable as he understood it. Who ever
                heard of such an election as is proposed in this measure? If there are reasons for
                ordering an election then the costs should follow as in other cases. There is no
                reason at all for assessing the costs against the applicants. He pointed out other
                objections to the bill. It provides that the majority rule shall not prevail, for it
                requires a vote of two-thirds. Then the petitioners for relocation are required to
                raise $500 to pay an architect while the present laws fixes $50 as the amount to be
                raised for this purpose.
              On motion by Mr. BROWN the amendment was laid on the table.
              Mr. ANDREWS moved to strike out the words "two-thirds" in the first line of the
                11th section, and insert "55 per cent." in lieu.
              Mr. BROWN denounced the existing law as unjust and wrong, and declared that this
                bill was introduced as a measure beneficial alike to all parts of the State. He
                opposed the amendment--giving reasons--the consent of the great body of tax payers
                should be had on this question of relocation, and that can not be got at by a mere
                majority vote.
              Mr. DWIGGINS moved to amend the amendment by substituting "60 per cent." instead of
                "55 per cent."
              Mr. ANDREWS accepted the amendment.
              Mr. DWIGGINS thought this a question of vital importance, and urged a careful and
                candid consideration of it.
              Mr. SCOTT could not see why the present law of 55 per cent. should be changed. He
                thought a majority should have the right to remove county seats. These amendments he
                regarded as impracticable.
              The Senate then adjourned.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            WEDNESDAY, February 1, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.--the order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. Franklin, of
            Christ Church.
          The journal of yesterday was read and approved--till on motion of Mr. CAUTHORN the
            further reading was dispensed with.
          
            STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
            The SPEAKER announced the consideration of the unfinished business of yesterday, viz:
              Mr. Taylor's bill [H. R. 63] to amend sections 62, 63, 65, 66 of the general city
              corporation act.
            Mr. TAYLOR showed that the Judiciary Committee's amendment, and
              the amendment proposed yesterday by himself should be adopted to perfect the bill. His
              amendment, being to provide that vacancies in the commissioners shall be filled by the
              Common Council; and the other amendment being merely clerical and formal--was adopted;
              and so the bill was ordered to the engrossment.
          
          
            THE CALENDAR.
            Mr. St. John's Michigan Road Evidence bill was ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. Rhodes' Red Fox Destruction bill [H. R. 151] coming up on the second
              reading--
            Mr- NEFF proposed to amend by including night hawks and screech owls in the
              previsions of the bill. [Laughter.]
            Mr. CAUTHORN moved to lay the amendment on the table.
            The motion was rejected, and the question recurred on the adoption of the amendment,
              and it was rejected.
            Mr. FURNAS said his region was not infested with foxes, but as this bill was
              desirable in other sections he should vote for it. He deprecated these motions to cast
              discredit on such bills.
            Mr. RHODES moved the adoption of the amendment reported by the committee, striking
              out the word "red."
            Mr. WASHBURN would make the premium $5.
            Mr. HARDIN moved, ineffectually, to make the premium $1 instead of $2.
            Mr. WARRUM moved, ineffectually, to add "sheep-killing dogs."
            Mr. ST. JOHN proposed, ineffectually, to confine the chasing of foxes to uninclosed
              lands.
            The bill was then ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. Stone's road bill [H. R. 40] coming up was ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. Holland's supervisors' election bill [H. R. 106] was also ordered to the
              engrossment and third reading.
            Mr. Curtis' road toll bill [H. R. 42] coming up on the second reading, was passed to
              the third reading.
            Mr. Martin, of Wayne's, road tax bill [H. R. 154] coming up on the second reading was
              ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. Heilman's Evansville City Charter amendment bill [H. R. 196] coming up on the
              second reading, on Mr. Heilman's motion it was referred to the Committee on
                Cities and Towns.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF, (by consel), the Senate bill on the same matter was referred
              to the same committee.

            

            The Committee's general election bill [H.R. 205] coming up,
            Mr. RUDDELL moved that it be made the special order for 2 o'clock to morrow.
            Mr. NFFF opposed the motion--prefering its consideration in Committee of the
              Whole.
            Mr. WILSON said we could not now go into Committee of the Whole without suspending
              the regular order.
            Mr. McDONALD preferred to postpone till Saturday.
            Mr. McDOWELL proposed to-morrow, 10 o'clock, which was concurred in by unanimous
              consent.
            Mr. Stone's highways improvement bill [H. R. 15] coming up, it was passed to the
              engrossment.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, presented the petition of 1,400 citizens for amendment of the
              Railroad law.
            Mr. COPNER--two petitions--one in reference to schools, and the other with reference
              to prisons; which petitions were appropriately referred.
            Mr. Stone's turnpike amendment bill [H. R. 55] was ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. Coggswell's road amendment bill [H. R. 96] was ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. Wood's Common Pleas Court bill [H. R. 137] was ordered to the engrossment.
          
          
            21ST COMMON PLEAS DISTRCT.
            Mr. Biggs' Twenty-first District Court bill [H. R. 147] was ordered to the
              engrossment and 3d reading.
            On motion of Mr. BIGGS, (the rules being suspended for the purpose by yeas 76, nays
              7,) the bill was finally passed the House of Representatives--yeas 85, nays 0the
              counties of Fulton, Kosciusko and Wabash shall constitute the 21st district.
          
          
            THE CALENDAR.
            Mr. Wilson's City Railroad aid bill [H. R. 182] coming up on the second reading--
            On motion of Mr. WILSON, it was referred to the Committee on
                Railroads.
            Mr. Cox's bill [H. R. 205] for the relief of George R. Ryder and Maria B. Ryder was
              passed to the engrossment.
            Mr. Calkins of Porter's bill [H. R. 188] to provide for appeals from County Boards of
              Equalization, was ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. Ballenger's deuces tekum bill [H. R. 152] coming up--
            Mr. RUDDELL moved to amend by inserting a saving clause; providing that the bill
              shall not apply to any suit now pending in any of the courts of this State.
            Mr. BALLENGER: The bill is simply to supply a remedy where there is none. If the
              gentleman will examine the bill, he will see that there is no necessity of excepting
              pending suits.
            Mr. RUDDELL: If the gentleman has no pending case which he expects the bill to meet,
              I can see no impropriety in his accepting the amendment.
            Mr. BALLENGER: If the remedy proposed in this bill ought to be applied, I can't see
              why it should not apply to pending cases, as well as others.
            Mr. RUDDELL: It has not been an uncommon thing for the General Assembly to have
              special legislation palmed off upon, them in this way.
            Mr. NEFF: If it is right to pass this bill, it is wrong to adopt the amendment. The
              bill is to meet cases like this: a gentleman in Tippecanoe county is sued upon his
              bond, perhaps executed in the county of Marion. He puts in his plea, denying that he
              ever made the bond. It becomes necessary then that the original instrument be produced
              in court.
            And we have now no legal process to bring it. If I understand the bill its sole
              object is to bring such papers into court--the foundation of the action. I don't care
              if there are a thousand actions pending, if there is nothing wrong in the bill they
              can not be injuriously affected by it.
            Mr. RUDDELL. Does not the law allow the officers of court to apply for certified
              copies?
            Mr. NEFF. But does not the hand writing frequently become a question of fact? and no
              honest man can suffer by having original papers produced.
            Mr. ST. JOHN took a similar view with that of the gentleman from Putnam (Mr. Neff,)
              and he gave examples. He insisted that the amendment smacks of special legislation
              more than the bill.
            Mr. RUDDELL. A saving clause is against legislation it can not be special
              legislation. I introduced the amendment because I was told this is a bill to meet a
              special case.
            Mr. BIGGS said everybody has felt the necessity for such legislation as that proposed
              in this bill, and he hoped the amendment would be voted down.
            The amendment was rejected, and the bill was ordered to the engrossment and third
              reading.
            Mr. Britton's county seat removal bill [H. R. 129] was passed to the third reading
              to-morrow.
            Mr. Stone's Bastardy amendment bill [H. R. 191 was ordered to the engrossment and
              third reading.
            Mr. Calkins of Fulton's Partition bill [H. R. 170] coming up--Mr. C. explained that
              it saved costs and expense to heirs. If the Commissioners find that the land of heirs
              can not be divided without diminishing its value, the land shall be appraised and sold
              by the court. The bill was ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton's practice act supplemental bill, [H. R. 172], amendatory of
              the 186th section with reference to attachments, coming up on the second reading--
            Mr. DAVIDSON said: It attempts to amend the practice act by adding certain words or
              or sentences. Under the State Constitution we can not amend an act in that way, but
              the whole section must be set forth.
            Mr. Stanberry's Judges' disability bill, ] H. R. 180], was ordered to the engrossment
              on third reading.
            Mr. Milligan's bill, [H. R. 134], to pro-  hibit
              certain animals from running at large, was ordered to the third reading.
            Mr. Copner's bill, [H. R. 142], to amend section 5 of the act to amend the act
              relative to decents, was ordered to the third reading.
            Mr. Rice's county order bill, [H. R. 131], coming up--
            Mr. BARNABY proposed to amend by inserting these words, "provided there be a
              sufficient amount of money in the County Treasury to liquidate said claims."
            The amendment was adopted, and so the bill was ordered to the third reading.
            Mr. HAYNES' bill [H. R. 101], to amend section 9 of the act to enable incorporate
              towns to lay out open and improve streets, etc., was ordered to the third reading.
          
          
            ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
            Mr. GORDON of Cass' Roman Catholic real estate bill [H. R. 43], coming up on the
              second reading--
            Mr. MYERS considered it due to the members of the House that the friends of this bill
              explain the necessity for this religious organizations having an act passed for their
              especial benefit.
            Mr. CAUTHORN. As a member of the Committee on Corporations, I will
              say that this bill came before us for consideration; and there is nothing wrong in it.
              It is almost an exact and literal copy of the Illinois law on that subject. The way it
              now stands with these people, the fee simple of the property of their church belongs
              to the Bishops; and this bill proposes that two lay members of the church shall hold
              the church property with the Bishop. At present, in case their bishop dies without
              will there is danger of the church property descending to the bishop's heirs. The bill
              simply gives the property to a corporation.
            Mr. MYERS desired merely that the House would consider whether it were wiser and
              better for the Roman Catholic Church to adapt their laws and usages to the laws of the
              State of Indiana, or for us to adapt our laws to their particular necessities. He did
              not think we ought to adapt our laws to suit the convenience of any church.
            Mr. McDONALD. So far as the question of right is concerned, I think these people have
              just the same rights as other citizens of the State of Indiana, so long as they behave
              themselves. This bill is almost a perfect copy of an Illinois law, passed at their
              last regular session. At present the Catholic church property belongs to the priest,
              and it would go to his heirs if he die without will, or if he have no heirs, it would
              escheat to the State of Indiana. Now I am willing to be liberal; although differing
              from them, I am perfectly willing that they should have their property to descend
              through their trustees, which would be much better than the way it is now held. I
              think the bill is right; and I should think the gentleman from Elkhart would think so
              too, for it takes so much authority out of the hands of the priest and gives it to the
              laity. It enlarges the privileges of the laity; and, though not as liberal as I could
              wish, it is taking a step in the right direction.
            Mr. MYERS did not intend to be understood as desirous of pushing obstructions in the
              way of the Roman Catholic Church or any other. But I do think that every church should
              come under our laws--that every church should have the largest liberty-equal privilege
              under the constitution. I do not like this special legislation. I am opposed to the
              bill on that principle.
            Mr. HAYNES said, the Catholic Church in this bill do not ask for any special
              privelege, they have an urgent necessity for this legislation. Within the last few
              years, for the want of it they have lost two valuable pieces of property in our
              county--by the death of the bishop and the failure of appointments to inherit or
              succeed him in the possession of it, and it went to the State of Indiana. They now
              come up and ask here for the protection of the property they have earned--that it may
              be made safe and secure to them. That is what is just and right-and they are in large
              numbers amongst us. In the case which I have spoken of the property went back to the
              State--and it was with great difficulty and by special legislation that it was
              recovered. By these proceedings our part of the State was robbed of the location of
              that eminent institution of learning, the Notre Dame University, in St. Joseph
              county.
            Mr. TAYLOR. This bill was sent here, I believe by Bishop Lewers of Fort Wayne, and my
              slightly different view of it is from knowledge derived from him. There is a law of
              their church by which its property is vested in its bishop, who is required to will it
              to some other bishop--the will, of course, being subject to all the uncertainties of
              devisees--and a large amount of property has been lost to that church through the
              defectiveness of wills, etc. Now as I understand it, members of the Catholic Church
              propose to take a step in advance in this matter--to invest their church property in
              organizations in each of their parishes, being unwilling that it be held under the
              general laws of the State. By the provisions of the bill the bishop and two local
              members of the parish--lay members--will be the corporation to hold. In this
              particular alone is the difference between this bill and the general law I am not sure
              but there is a statute giving something in this way to the Episcopal churches.
            Mr. HAYNES spoke again.
            Mr. GORDON of Cass, said the bill was laid on his desk with the request to introduce
              it, and the Committee on Corporations had recommended its passage.
              It simply asks that that church be relieved from their cumberous proceedings in
              reference to the descent of their property.
            Mr. Williams would like to know whether they could not organize under the general
              law.
            The SPEAKER said the Episcopal Church had a similar act for their accommodation.
            The bill was passed to the third reading.
            Mr. Abbett's bill [H. R. 122] appropriating $250 for the distribution of the report
              of the Superintendent of Public Instruction cominp up--

            

            On motios of Mr. CAUTHORN, it was made $150; and so the bill was ordered to the third
              reading.
            Mr. King's Indianapolis Gas Company's charter amendment bill [H. R. 138] was passed
              to the engrossment.
            Mr. Wilson's fees and salaries bill [H. R 157] coming up--
            On motion of Mr. NEFF, it was referred to the Committee on Fees and
                Salaries.
            Mr. ST. JOHN presented a petition with reference to the divorce law, and another for
              the appointment of prision supervisors.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY asked and obtained leave to submit two amendments to Mr. Ruddell's
              sinking fund bill, and have them referred therewith, to the committee on Ways
                and Means, to-wit: Insert these words, "and that said fund be partitioned
              among the several counties in a proportion according to the last enumeration of school
              children," and amend so as to make the interest on said loans eight per cent per
              annum.
            The House then took a recess till 2 o'olock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed the Chair at 2 clock p. m. and announced the order of
            
              REPORTS FROM STANDING COMMITTEES.
              Mr. HENDERSON, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr.
                Friedley's practice act amendment bill [H. R. 194], reporting that it lie on the
                table--being of the opinion that the present law giving the Sheriff six months is
                sufficient.
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. FRIEDLEY, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr.
                Browning's tax sale bill [H. R. 84] with an amendment, inserting the words "two
                consecutive years." He said it requires that the Treasurer shall try for two years
                to sell, and if he fail then suit shall be instituted, &c.
              Mr. ST. JOHN, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
                White's county surveyor's act amendment bill, [H. R. 197], recommending that it be
                laid on the table.
            
            
              THE WILE AND SCHOENAMANN CONTEST.
              Mr. McDONALD, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned the
                report from the Committee on Elections in the contest of Simon
                Wile for the seat of William Schoenamann, a Representative from the County of
                Laporte, unseating Mr. Schoenamann and daring that Simon Wile is entitled to the
                seat of said Representative, which has heretofore been described in there reports;
                and he reported that said Committee on the Judiciary not yet
                having been able to agree, the majority report a recommendation that the resolution
                reported by the Committee on Elections be adopted.
              Mr. WILSON said we would have a majority report to present, and we will be ready to
                present it to-morrow.
              Mr. CAUTHORN, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
                Tebbs' voluntary assignment bill, [H. R. 4,] recommending that it pass.
              Mr. STEPHENSON, from the Committee on Fees and Salaries,
                reported a disagreement in the committee and that a majority report in favor of a
                specific salary bill to be submitted as a substitute for his bill [H. R. 1] to
                regulate the salaries and compensations of county officers, &c., it will be No.
                206, and on his motion it was ordered that 200 copies of the report and substitute
                bill be printed.
              Mr. BRITTON, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges,
                returned Mr. Cunningham's misdemeanor act amendment bill, (H. R. 77) with an
                amendment inserting after the word otherwise these words, ''without the owner's
                consent," and so the committee recommend its passage. He said the bill simply makes
                it a misdemeanor to deface any school house, court house, or private house or fence
                without the consent of the owner, punishable with a fine of from $5 to $50.
            
            
              CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.
              The SPEAKER announced the special order, to-wit: the consideration of Mr. Calkins
                of Porter's Constitutional Convention bill [H. R. 103.]
              Mr. NEFF desired its indefinite postponement.
              Mr. CALKINS of Porter, desiring to be heard on this bill, and being in bad health,
                asked the House to postpone its consideration till next Tuesday morning at 10
                o'clock. It was so ordered.
            
            
              REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
              Mr. HAYNES, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges,
                returned Mr. Bruner's bill [H. R. 175] authorizing voluntary Fire Insurance
                Associations, recommending its indefinite postponement. The report was concurred
                in.
              Mr. HAYNES also returned Mr. Gordon, of Boone's,quail and pheasant bill [H. R.
                102], recommending indefinite postponement, for the reason that they have
                recommended the passage of a bill embracing all the desirable features of other
                bills on this subject.
              Mr. MONTGOMERY, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges,
                returned Mr. Taylor's bill [H. R. 121] to exempt two months' wages from process of
                garnishment, recommending that it lie on the table.
              Mr. TAYLOR opposed concurrence in the report, and moved its recommitment, with
                instructions to amend so that the provisions of this bill shall not be operative in
                cases of attachment upon allegments of fraud.
              The motion was rejected.
              Mr. STANLEY, from the same committee, returned Mr. Calkins' shade trees protection
                bill [H. R. 83] recommending that it pass.
              Mr. RICE, from the Committee on Manufactures and Commerce,
                returned Mr. Ruddell's bill [H. R. 139] authorizing City Councils to exempt
                manufactories, etc., from taxation by a vote of the tax payers, with amendments
                striking out $100,000 and substituting $50,000; striking out the words "who may be a
                resident of this State, and inserting these words in the last section: "Such
                Trustees shall deposit with the Treasurer of the city a sum sufficient for the
                expenses of said election."

              

              After debate by Messrs. Ruddell, Rhodes McDonald, Haynes, and sundry motions which
                were adopted and reconsidered, the foregoing amendments were adopted and the bill
                takes its place in the calendar.
              Mr. ZENOR, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
                returned Mr. Rhodes' Road bill [H. R. 201] recommending that it be laid on the
                table.
              Mr. RHODES plead for his bill, but--
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. KENNEDY, from the same committee, returned Mr. St. John's bill [H. R. 114]
                requiring County Boards to publish expenditures, headings of contracts, and
                allowance quarterly, with amendments striking out the word "quarterly" wherever it
                occurs in the bill, and adding to section 1 these words: "and also the headings of
                all contracts, provided that the cost of said printed matter shall not exceed five
                cents a line of closely printed matter." Mr. K. said the bill is to authorize the
                printing of the proceedings of the county commissioners in which money is involved.
                The committee provide that the cost of printing shall not exceed five cents a line.
                I believe that is about half the price of ordinary printing.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton. Does it apply to all county papers?
              Mr. KENNEDY to only one paper; and it is presumed that the commissioners will
                publish in the paper of the majority.
              Mr. CALKINS would like to have the publication extended to every paper in the
                county, and gave notice of his intention to offer an amendment to that effect.
              Mr. KENNEDY, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
                returned his bill [H. R. 193] supplemental to the act to provide for the opening,
                vacating and changing of highways, approved March 9, 1861, recommending its passage.
                He said the bill leaves the law with regard to private roads just as it is, except
                that where they go through lands unenclosed they shall be deemed gateways.
              Mr. GUTHRIE, from the same committee, returned Mr. Hooker's bill [H. R. 100] for
                the improvement of highways, providing that the same shall be kept open by taxation,
                etc., recommending that it lie on the table.
              On motion of Mr. HOOKER, it was recommitted to the Committee on County and
                  Township Business.
              Mr. BRUNER, from the same committee, returned Mr. Knight's bill [H. R. 199] to
                amend section 20 of the supervisors act of March 15, 1850, recommending its
                indefinite postponement.
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. WOOD, from the same committee, returned Mr. Taylor's bill [H. R. 27] for the
                improvement of highways and the assessment, collection and application of road
                taxes, recommending that it lie on the table.
              Mr. TAYLOR resisted the report with numerous considerations, and moved that the
                bill be referred to the committee of the whole and made the special order for
                Monday, the committee to consider and report as to best method of improving the
                roads by taxation, and on the question of making improvement by a concentration of
                means.
              This motion was rejected and afterwards reconsidered, and then the report of the
                Committee was concurred in, and then subsequently the vote of concurrence was
                rescinded and reversed and then Mr. Taylor's motion for the special order for Monday
                was agreed to.
              Mr. STEPHENS from the same Committee returned Mr. Gordon of Boone's road bill [H.
                R. 160,] recommending that it be laid on the table. The report was concurred in.
              Mr. DONHAM from the Committee on Agriculture returned Mr.
                Oatley's resolution against the destruction of little birds, recommending that it be
                laid on the table, The report was concurred in.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, urged the action of the Committee on Benevolent
                  Institutions on the subject of his resolution for a building for the
                incurably insane--as a matter demanded by the people of the State.
              Mr. OATLEY, (by consent) presented a temperance petition, which was referred.
              Mr. HAYNES, from the Committee on Public Expenditures, returned
                the Senate joint resolution, No. 6, relative to the adjustment and collection of
                State claims, recommending its adoption.
              Mr. CAUTHORN, from the Committee on Cities and Towns, returned
                Mr. Kennedy's bill (H. R. 192) for vacating streets and alleys not used for 20
                years, recommending that it lie on the table, for the reason that all cases to be
                affected by the proposed bill an already provided for by law.
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. RICE, from the same committee, returned that Mr. Cauthorn's bill (H. R. 178)
                for the amendment of the 51st section of the general city corporation act,
                recommending its passage.
              Mr. MILLIKAN, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr. Abbett's
                bill [H. R. 165] to legalize the proceedings in listing lands for plank and gravel
                road purposes, and to repeal, etc., recommending a substitute therefor, entitled a
                bill [H. R. 207] for an act supplemental to an act assessing lands for gravel road
                purposes, and respealing and saving rights, etc.
              Mr. BRITTON, from the Committee of Roads, returned Mr. Hawley's bill [H. R. 174] to
                repeal the act assessing lands for gravel road purposes, recommending its indefinite
                postnonement.
              Mr: HAWLEY resisted the report, and insisted that the road law of 1867 is radically
                wrong.
              Mr. COPNER also hoped that the report would not be concurred in.
              And then, at 5 o'clock, the House adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            THURSDAY, February 2, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A. M., the Lieutenant Governor in the Chair.
          Prayer was offered by Rev. J. W. ASBUBY, of the Ames M. E. Church.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read, till--
          On motion, by Mr. HENDERSON, the further reading thereof was dispensed with.
          Mr. DWIGGINS called attention to an error in the proceedings of yesterday afternoon,
            when, on Mr. Brown's motion to dispense with the constitutional restriction, in order
            that his bill (S. 19), might be read by title only; there were but 33 votes in the
            affirmative and one in the negative--the constitution requiring a two-thirds vote of all
            the members elected, in the affirmative.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR decided that subsequent proceedings were void--the vote not
            being in accordance with the constitutional provision.
          The journal was corrected as far as it refers to this bill, and the proceedings after
            the vote, were stricken from the journals.
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. FRANCISCO presented a memorial on the subject of gravel roads, remonstrating
              against the passage of any law legalizing assessments made by gravel road
              companies.
            Mr. HESS presented two petitions praying the General Assembly to repeal all divorce
              laws except that which provides for separation on the ground of adultery.
            Mr. STROUD presented a petition praying for a prohibitory liquor law.
            Mr. FRANCISCO presented a petition for the passage of laws forbidding sale of
              intoxicating liquors to minors.
            These petitions were severally referred to the appropriate committees.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. BRADLEY, from the Judiciary Committee, returned the bill [S.
              52] prohibiting Circuit Prosecuting Attorneys from entering a nolle
                prosequi without consent of the Court, recommending that it lie on the table,
              as a similar law is now in force.
            Mr. HOOPER, from the same committee, returned the bill [S. 78] to provide for
              compensation for extra service by Judges, with a favorable report Senator Glessner
              dissenting.
            Also the bill [S. 98] to make valid sales of real estate by executors, with a
              recommendation that it pass.
            Mr. GLESSNER returned from the same committee the bill [S. 114] to provide for the
              acquisition of certain lands in this State by the United States, recommending its
              passage.
            Mr. BRADLEY, from the Committee on Education, returned the bill
              [S. 101] to amend section 5 of the common school law, recommending that it lie on the
              table.
            The report was concurred in.
            Also, the bill, [S. 12,] to amend section 7 of the same act, with a similar report.
              The report was concurred in. The committee will report favorably on a bill containing
              similar provisions.
            Mr. SCOTT, from the same committee, returned the bill, [S. 40,] to amend sections 34,
              37 and 39 of the school law, with a favorable report thereon.
            Also, the bill, [S. 60,] authorizing bonds to be issued for school building purposes,
              with amendments providing that the property (of persona benefitted) lying outside the
              school limits, may be taxed for school purposes.
            Mr. TAYLOR from the same committee, returned the bill [S. 41,] to amend the school
              law and adding supplementary sections, recommending it passage with amendments--Mr.
              Johnson dissenting.
            Mr. HENDERSON, from the Committee on Corporations, returned the
              bill [S. 30] supplemental to the street and alley improvement act, with a favorable
              report.
            Mr. CAVE, from the Committee on Roads, returned the bill [S. 97]
              supplemental to the road assessment act of March, 11, 1867, and May 14, 1869,
              recommending that it lie on the table. The report was concurred in.
            Mr. GLESSNER, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
              returned the bill (S. 126) to limit the allowances to attorneys by courts, with a
              recommendation that it pass with amendments.
            Mr. JOHNSTON, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges,
              returned the bill (S. 15) supplemental to the gravel road acts, with amendments.
            Mr. GREGG, from the same committee, returned the bill (S. 127) to amend the fish law,
              with amendments.

            

            Mr. JOHNSTON, from the same committee, returned the bill (H. R. 84) to prevent prize
              fighting, with a favorable recommendation.
            Also, the bill (S. 47) to repeal the dog law, with a recommendation that it lie on
              the table. The report was concurred in.
            Mr. BEESON, from the Select Committee on Woman's Rights, returned
              the bill (S. 54) to authorize married women to make contracts, with a favorable report
              thereon.
            These bills, except where otherwise stated, go to the files by consent.
            Mr. WOOD, from the special committee thereon, returned the bill (S. 136) to fix the
              time of holding, courts in the 8th Circuit, recommending its passage. Affecting the
              counties of Fountain, Montgomery, Boone, Clinton and Warren.
            The bill was read the second time by title only.
            On his further motion, the constitutional restriction was dispensed with, and the
              bill was read the third time and passed by yeas 36, nays 0.
          
          
            GRAVEL ROADS.
            Mr. COLLETT, by leave, introduced a bill [S. 162] authorizing a re-assessment of
              lands for plank and gravel road purposes, which was read the first time.
            On motion by Mr. WADGE, one hundred copies were ordered printed.
          
          
            BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS.
            On motion by Mr. MORGAN, the bill [H. R. 69] making specific appropriations for the
              benevolent institutions--$25,000 for the Insane Hospital from January to April 1,
              1871, and $7,000 for the Deaf and Dumb, and $5,000 for the Soldiers' Home, was read
              the first time.
            On motion by Mr. GRAY, the constitutional restriction was dispensed with--yeas 36,
              nays 0, and the bill, being read by title only, was referred to the Committee
                on the Benevolent Institutions of the State.
          
          
            HYDRAULIC COMPANIES.
            Mr. BEGGS, by leave introduced a bill (S. 163) to authorize the consolidation of
              hydraulic companies, which was read the first time.
            On his motion the constitutional restriction was suspended yeas 40, nays 0the title
              of the bill was read, and it was referred to a select committee of three.
          
          
            ANOTHER INSANE HOSPITAL.
            Mr. MORGAN, by leave, introduced a bill (S. 164) to make further provision for the
              cure and treatment of the insane of the State--the State officers to establish such an
              institution on 160 acres of land either in the northern or southern portion of the
              State.
          
          
            AGENT OF STATE.
            Mr. GRAY submitted a resolution calling upon the Judiciary Committee to return the
              bill (S. 31) to abolish the office of Agent of State, at two o'clock p. m. to-day.
            It was adopted.
          
          
            SOLDIERS' HOME.
            Mr. DITTEMORE offered a resolution authorizing the appointment of a committee of
              three to visit Dayton, Ohio, to ascertain whether the National Soldiers' Home there
              can accommodate the inmates of the Indiana Soldiers' Home.
            Mr. HOOPER stated that a committee two years ago reported there was room in the
              National Home for the soldiers at Knightstown.
            Mr. DITTEMORE was of opinion this was questionable at the present time. He was
              willing this information should be obtained by correspondence, if the Senate
              preferred.
            On motion by Mr. Martindale the resolution was referred to the Committee on
                Military Affairs.
          
          
            THE GOVERNOR'S SALARY.
            Mr. GLESSNER offered a resolution calling upon the Governor for a full and complete
              statement of all monies drawn from the Treasury of the State, under the fourth section
              of an act to provide a residence for the Governor of the State, and making an
              allowance in lieu thereof, and also a full statement of all sums or monies paid by him
              for house rent during the time he has been acting as Governor.
            The resolution was adopted.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The following described bills were introduced, read the first time, and severally
              passed to the second reading:
            By Mr. WOOD, a bill (165) to amend section 2 of the act organizing Boards of County
              Commissioners, approved in 1852.
            By Mr. KEIGWIN (S. 166), in relation to the taxation of lands in towns--five acres
              used for farming purposes not to be taxed.
            By Mr. MARTINDALE. (S. 167), to amend sections 61, 68, 69 and 70 of the general city
              incorporation act.
          
          
            LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
            The Committee on Benevolent Institutions obtained leave of absence
              for this afternoon and to morrow forenoon, in order that they may visit the Blind
              Asylum and the Deaf and Dumb Institution.
            Mr. MORGAN obtained leave of absence from to-morrow afternoon till Tuesday.
            And then came the recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at 2 o'clock, and announced the order for
              the introduction of bills; new propositions were read the first time, and passed to
              the second reading, described as follows:
            By Mr. DOUGHERTY, a bill (S. 168) prescribing certain duties of county officers,
              fixing the compensation thereof, etc.
            By Mr. GLESSNER, a bill (S. 169) to amend the third section of the act to provide for
              the government of the State Prisons, and repealing all conflicting laws--Directors to
              receive $500 per annum.
            By Mr. DOUGHERTY, a bill (S. 170) to legalize the official acts of the Council and
              other officers of the town of Bluffton, Wells county, in the matter of issuing of
              bonds for the erection of a graded school building.
            By Mr. GLESSNER, a bill (S. 17I)to amend 
              section 4 of the act to provide a residence for the Governor of the State, etc.,
              approved February 25, 1866, and authorizing the rental, not to exceed $2,000, to be
              paid the Governor.
            By Mr. MILLER, a bill (S.172,) defining misdemeanors, and prescribing punishment
              therefor--adultery and fornication.
            Mr. GLESSNER moved a dispensation of the Constitutional restriction that the bill may
              be read by title and referred to the Committee on Rights and Privileges of
                the Inhabitants of the State.
            It was so ordered by yeas 36, nays 2.

            
              AGENT OF STATE.
              Mr. GLESSNER moved to suspend the order of business to enable him to move to
                reconsider the vote taken just before dinner adopting the resolution, recalling from
                the Judiciary Committee the bill abolishing the office of Agent
                of State, and that the Committee be requested to report the bill on Monday next, the
                bill to be made the special order for that day. In answer to inquiries he remarked
                that this bill has not been considered at all by the Committee, to his
                knowledge.
              The motion to suspend the rules was agreed so by yeas 19, nays 18.
              Pending this vote, Mr. Sarninghausen announced that he had paired off with the
                Senator from Vermillion, (Mr. Collott).
              The motion to reconsider was agreed to by yeas 19, noes 18.
              Mr. GLESSHER modified his motion so as strike out of the resolution to-day, and
                insert Monday. The amendment was agreed to, and the resolution, as amended, was
                adopted.
            
            
              NEW STATE HOUSE.
              Mr. FOSDIOK, offered a resolution, which was adopted, referring that portion of the
                Governor's message in relation to the erection of a new State House to the
                  Committee on Public Buildings, with instructions to inquire if
                the ground therein spoken of is really needed, and if so, what price it can be
                purchased for.
            
            
              WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
              The bill [S.130] to amend section 1 of the charter of Notre Dame du Lac.
              The bill [S. 141] to amend section 17 of the city incorporation act.
              The bill [S.142] to amend section 211 of the practice act.
              The bill [S. 143] to amend section 311 of the practice not.
              The bill [S. 146] to amend section 1 of the street and alley improvement act.
              The bill [S. 147] to provide for the publication of County Commissioners'
                proceedings.
              The bill [S. 148] providing for a general system of common schools in cities of
                30,000 inhabitants.
              The bill [S. 150] supplemental to the act prescribing the duties of Justices of the
                Peace.
              The bill [S. 152] extending extra time for the completion of railroads.
              The bill [S. 153] to provide for an experimental school for idiots.
              The bill [S. 154] to legalize articles of association of all gravel road
                companies.
              The bill [S. 155] to enforce the collection of fees against convicts.
              The bill [S.158] to amend section 17 of the act fixing the times for holding Courts
                of Common Pleas in this State.
              The bill [S. 159] amending section 26 of the city incorporation act.
              Were read by title only and severally referred to appropriate committees.
            
            
              LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
              Mr. Bobo obtained leave of absence till Monday week.
              Mr. Fosdick till Thursday, and Mr. Dougherty till Tuesday.
            
            
              TO ABOLISH THE COMMON PLEAS AND CRIMINAL COURTS.
              Mr. DENBO moved that his bill [S. 144] to abolish the Common, Pleas and Criminal
                Courts of this State be printed and made the special order for this day week at 2
                1/2 o'clock P. M.
              It was so ordered.
            
            
              TWELFTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
              Mr. DWIGGINS moved for a constitutional restriction that his bill [S. 145] fixing
                the times for holding courts in the Twelfth Judicial Circuit--White, Newton, Jasper,
                Benton and Tippecanoe counties (to sit in the latter county so long as the business
                may require)--be pressed to its final passage in the Senate.
              It was so ordered by yeas 38, nays 0, and the bill was read the second and third
                times, and--passed by yeas 34, nays 0.
            
            
              RAILROAD CONSOLIDATION.
              Mr. JOHNSTON introduced a bill [S. 171] legalizing the consolidation of the
                Logansport, Camden and Frankfort Railroad Company and the Frankfort and
                Crawfordsville Railroad Company and Crawfordsville and Rockville Railroad Company
                under the name of the Logansport, Crawfordsville and Southwestern Railroad Company,
                and the present organization of the last named company, and the proceedings of the
                stockholders and Board of Directors, which was read the first time.
              On motion of Mr. JOHSTON, the constitutional restriction was dispensed with--yeas,
                36; nays, 0--and--
              The bill was read by title and referred to a select committee of five.
            
            
              DAYS OF GRACE--PROTEST.
              On motion by Mr. GRAY, the constitutional restriction was dispensed with, by yeas
                36, nays 0, and his bill [S. 149] amending section 14 of the act of May 12,1852,
                concerning promissory notes and bills of exchange, so as to allow three days of
                grace on all such paper, and notice of protest may be given through the mails
                whether the penny post system exists or not, was pressed, through the second and
                third readings, and finally passed the Senate by yeas 34, nays 3.
            
            
              AID TO RAILROADS.
              Mr. TAYLOR, by leave, introduced a bill [S. 174] to amend the act authorizing aid
                to railroads by counties and townships, approved May 12, 1869, [to distsibute the
                stock amongst the taxpayers in proportion to the tax paid, as shown by separate tax
                receipt], was read the first time and passed to the second reading.
            

            

            
              DIVORCH LAWS.
              Mr. BRADLEY, by leave, returned from the Judiciary Committee the
                bill [S. 8] amending the 6, 7 and 11th sections of the divorce law with amendments,
                which were concurred in by consent.
              Mr. MARTINDALE moved for a dispensation of the constitutional provision that the
                bill may be pressed to its passage.
              The motion was agreed to by yeas 34, nays not announced.
              Accordingly the bill was read the second and third times.
              Mr. WOOD obtained unanimous consent to amend the bill by striking therefrom the
                emergency clause.
              Mr. STEELE also obtained unanimous consent to add to the bill as another cause for
                divorce failure of the husband to provide for the support of his wife. He knew of no
                stronger cause than the total failure of the husband to support the wife.
              Mr. HOOPER stated the Committee did not notice that the provision in the present
                law was omitted in the bill.
              The bill passed the Senate by yeas 37, nays 3.
            
            
              RELOCATION OF COUNTY SEATS.
              Mr. Brown's bill (S. 19,) to provide for the relocation of county seats and for the
                erection of public buildings in counties in case of such relocation, coming up--
              On motion of Mr. BROWN the constitutional restriction was dispensed with by yeas
                35, nays 1, and the bill was read by title only instead of being read through by
                sections.
              Mr. ANDREWS moved to amend by striking out of Section 1 the words "100," and
                inserting in lieu "500" petitioners.
              It was agreed to.
              Mr. ANDREWS moved to amend Section 2 so that the county shall pay the election
                expenses.
              On motion of Mr. BROWN the amendment was laid on the table.
              Mr. ANDREWS moved to strike out of section 11 the words "two-thirds" and insert in
                lieu "55 per cent." of the voters may relocate.
              On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE "60 per cent." was inserted in lieu of "two-thirds"--to
                go through the bill.
              Mr. ANDREWS moved to further amend section 11 by inserting "$50" instead of
                "$500"--to pay the architect.
              Mr. BROWN moved to amend the amendment by making the sum not to exceed $200, which
                was agreed to by consent.
              Mr. ANDREWS moved to strike out the provision requiring the petitioners to deposit
                $150 to assess damages.
              This motion was agreed to.
              Mr. BROWN moved to insert in lieu the 'words "not to exceed $125."It was agreed
                to.
              Mr. DWIGGINS moved to amend sec. 2 by striking out "six" and inserting in lieu
                "one" year--not more than one election for relocation shall be held during this
                period.
              Mr. BROWN meved to amend the amendment by making it two years, which was agreed to
                by consent.
              Mr. DWIGGINS moved to amend the second section so that when the requisite number of
                votes are cast for relocation the county shall pay the expense of the election.
              It was agreed to by consent.
              The bill was ordered engrossed for the third reading--
              And then the Senate adjourned till ten o'clock to-morrow.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            THURSDAY, February 2, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock a. m. Prayer by Rev. Mr. McCormick, of Gibson county.
          The journal of yesterday was read--till on motion of Mr. MAJOR, its further reading was
            dispensed with.
          
            ROAD LAWS.
            The SPEAKER announced the unfinished business of yesterday, viz., the consideration
              of Mr. Hawley's road law repeal bill [H. R. 124], with the committee recommendation
              that it be indefinitely postponed, because the substance is contained in another road
              bill recommended.
            Mr. HAWLEY denied that any other bill contains its provisions.
            Mr. STRICKLAND showed the working of the road laws of 1852 and 1855, the borrowing of
              money for road construction by Directors in advance of their collection, and the
              Supreme Court decision that all proceedings are illegal in cases where there has been
              irregularity or incompleteness in the assessments. This bill saves these lost rights;
              and it repeals the act of 1869. In his county (Decatur) alone one hundred thousand
              dollars, which have been borrowed and expended for the public good, stand in a
              position to be affected by this bill. The prevailing error in these assessments is the
              failure to assess the property in county seats, when the roads terminate there.
            The SPEAKER stated the question to be on postponement--to restrict the range of
              debate to a particular issue.
            Mr. STRICKLAND continued. The main struggle will be right here, and he desired to go
              on the record in regard to it. The bill proposes to assess the towns--for the purpose
              of legalizing the assessments in the country. Again, there is a provision in the acts
              of 1869, that where the collections are sufficient the assessments shall cease. There
              were men here lobbying in the interest of the people; and there were others, lawyers,
              lobbying against the bill, because it will deprive them of business. Let us pass an
              act which will allow companies to correct these irregularities. In voting for the
              repeal of this act of 1869, let us save vested rights. He himself was not to be
              affected--not being within one and a half miles of any turnpike.
            Mr. COPNER said no matter here was more interesting to his people than the repeal of
              the gravel road laws. We want gravel road laws. We want roads belonging to the people.
              He trusted that the report would not be concurred in.
            Mr. BROWNING believed it but an act of justice that the report should be concurred
                 in, because there is another and a better
              bill. He looked into the history of the operation of the road law. He wanted a bill to
              correct these defective assessments. This bill was a trap--giving a saving clause
              which amounts to nothing. The pinch, was, that its friends desired to avoid the
              assessments in the towns. He did not feel willing to see a law pass that would cut off
              the rights of the road men.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM considered the general proposition of the propriety of gravel road
              laws. It builds up roads by taxation in which the people have no interest. These
              companies come for their assessments before the owners of the land are ready to pay,
              and they are compelled to sell their homes to pay them. He declaimed earnestly against
              this oppression and inequality complained of by the people in the operation of these
              road laws. The time was come for the farmers of the country to declare and maintain
              their rights in this matter. He would vote for no law that compels a man to improve
              his property before he is ready. He voted against the law of 1869, and he would vote
              against it now. When he had concluded--
          
          
            THE ELECTION LAWS.
            The SPEAKER announced the special order for the hour, viz: the consideration of the
              General Election bill (H. R. 203) as in Committee of the Whole; and the House,
              thereupon, resolved into Committee of the Whole--Mr. Wilson in the Chair--and it was
              ordered that the bill be considered by sections.
            The first section, fixing general elections for the second Tuesday in October, was
              passed without amendment.
            Section 2, in regard to notice; section 3, as to election boards; section 4, as to
              vacancies, being read--
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, proposed to insert a clause to force parties appointed on
              Election Boards to serve under penalty of $25 fine.
            Mr. NEFF. In his county this difficulty has not occurred, and he hoped the amendment
              would be voted down.
            Mr. CALKINS sought by it, that the election might be carried on without being subject
              to contest on account of the organization of the Board.
            Mr. CALDWELL objected to the amendment, that it was iron-clad, and would encumber the
              bill.
            Mr. BELLENGER. The cases supposed would rarily occur, and the penalty was heavy. He
              saw no necessity for the amendment.
            Mr. LINES. Most men were ready to serve on Election Boards, to pay their road
              tax.
            Mr. CALKINS withdrew the amendment, as it seemed to meet with general opposition.
            Mr. KENNEDY would like some provision in the bill by which revolutionary proceedings
              might be prevented.
            Mr. COX. The decision of the Supreme Court was--that the regulation is advisory
              directory merely, not obligatory.
            Mr. TAYLOR regretted that the provision of this section 4 requiring the Board to be
              equally divided between the two political parties is unconstitutional, because it has
              worked very well. In the State of Pennsylvania they provide for the election of judges
              of election, and avoid the constitutional restriction.
            Mr. McDONALD was agreed in opinion with the gentleman from Allen, (Mr. Taylor,) and
              he would be glad to have a provision here like the Pennsylvania or the Iowa law--for
              the election of judges to servo two years.
            Mr. BALLENGER. This election regulation operated for the protection of the purity of
              the ballot box. If we elect these, in some counties it would defeat the object by
              destroying the balance of parties on the board.
            Mr. RHODES moved to strike that clause from the third section, which authorises the
              placing of two townships in one voting precinct.
            Mr. SABIN. This was copied from the act of 1852, and no evil could come of it.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, saw that confusion would result, since the township election
              were to be held in the fall. The clause was stricken out.
            Sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 being read and passed.
            Mr. TAYLOR thought the latter section should be more specific in regard to the
              lock.
            Mr. SABIN said the lock was never to be out of the presence of the officers, and it
              was to be sealed also. Sections 14, 15, 16--being read--
            Mr. ST. JOHN moved that in the fifteenth section it read, instead of "will," "the
              Board shall not adjourn," etc, and the motion was agreed to. Sections 17,18,10, 20,
              being read--
            Mr. MITCHELL suggested that there was no provision in regard to the term of the
              residence of the voter in the township for any time next before the election.
            Mr. SABIN. The committee left that, under the Constitution, without limitation.
            Mr. COPNER moved to strike out the 20th section and insert a substitute, to this
              effect: Any person offering to vote may be challenged by any voter of the township;
              and thereupon he shall take and subscribe an oath: that he is over 21 years; has been
              a resident of the State 6 months and of the township for the 20 days last past, and
              that he is there for the purpose of making it his permanent residence; and that he has
              not and will not vote anywhere else in this election; and if foreign born, that he has
              the required residence and has declared intention of naturalization; and that the oath
              be returned with the papers.
            Mr. McDOWELL and Mr. MARTIN of Putnam considered that the committee have done in this
              matter all that could be desired.
            Mr. COPNER urged the necessity of his substitute for the 19th section. The point was:
              it is not the intention that a man shall vote where he keeps his washing merely.
            Mr. BIGGS moved to strike out from the substitute that clause which declares inten-
                 tion to make the precinct the voter's
              permanent residence.
            Mr. CONNER. Residence is the constitutional requisition, and sufficient.
            After further debate by Mr. Mitchell, Mr. White insisting that the committee have
              acted deliberately and prudently, in that they have insisted upon nothing but
              residence for voting qualification--
            Mr. SPEAKER MACK inquired: What is a residence? Let the committee define.
            Mr. WHITE. That question could always be best answered by the voter himself. He would
              protect the elective franchise with the severest penalties--would make fraudulent
              voting a felony, punishable with two years in the penitentiary.
            Mr. BALLENGER did not think the Constitution prohibits tho Legislature from making
              regulations as to what constitutes the voter's residence. Residence is the actual
              abiding in the township, and the intention to continue the same. He referred to
              shifting of voters from county to county under the law of 1865; and the same thing
              would be done under this bill if the residence be left without a distinct definition
              and fixing of what constitutes a residence. If this cannot be done, we might as well
              give up our elections.
            Mr. MACK concurred in the reasoning of Mr. Ballenger, though his mind was tending to
              the conclusion that the constitution prohibits the restriction proposed. The
              constitution says if he resides in the township he is entitled to vote. To say the
              voter shall reside twenty days is a questionable construction of the constitution. He
              suggested that this section ought to be amended so as to require the challenged party
              to swear that he is a bona fide residenta resident in good
              faith.
            Mr. BALLENGER. Does the gentleman believe that the Legislature can define the
              residence?
            Mr. MACK. He did so believe, and that a good deal of difficulty might be avoided in
              our elections by so doing. He commended the definition, that a man's residence is what
              he calls his home when he is out of business. It was the intention that makes
              residence. If he could be satisfied that the twenty days provision is right, he would
              go for that; would do all he could to protect the ballot-box.
            Mr. BALLENGER thought the honest men the State over were in favor of the 20 days or
              30 days provision. It will be enough for us to hesitate when the courts have decided
              that it is prohibited by the Constitution. If we do not this, it will look like
              invitation to fraud.
            Mr. McDONALD was in favor of such a provision, and could not see that evil can flow
              from it; and it would apply equally to all parties. It was merely a police regulation;
              and we have the right to establish regulations not prohibited by the constitution.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, could vote for the restriction if it were not against the
              constitution. He showed that we have a decison of the Supreme Court; 9th Indiana
              Reports, p. 427, which he read, and he was willing to abide by it.
            Mr. RHODES took the same view; but he would unite in support of a general statue
              defining what shall constitute a residence for all purposes not merely for the purpose
              of voting.
            Mr. TAYLOR showed the difficulty to be as to what constitutes a change of residence:
              some holding that there is an interim between the time of losing his residence in one
              township and gaining it in another. He was of opinion that a citizen removing from one
              township to another does not lose his residence for a single day. And he was of
              opinion that the Legislature has not the province to define the word residence; but
              that the General Assembly should provide by statute that a man removing from one
              township to another shall not lose his residence in the one till he gains it in the
              other.
            Mr. MILEE took a similar view--that the Legislature can not prescribe the restriction
              as to days--and that residence alone is the essential qualification. When he had
              concluded--
            On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS the Committee rose, and--
            The CHAIRMAN reported progress, and asked and obtained leave for the committee to sit
              again at 2 o'clock this P. M.
            On motion of Mr. ZENOR, it was ordered that Mr. Hooker's road bill [H. R. 100] be
              taken up and be referred to the Road Committee raised yesterday.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed the chair at 2 o'clock P. M., and announced the special order;
              whereupon--
            The House resolved into Committee of the Whole, Mr. Wilson in the chair.
            The Chairman announced the question to be on Mr. Biggs' amendment to Mr. Copner's
              amendment--Mr. Biggs proposing to strike out of the oath the words "of intention to
              make the township the voter's permanent residence.
            Mr. BROWNING insisted that we can not pass such a provision that will have any
              binding force. The best thing would be to require the voter challenged to take an oath
              that he is a bona fide resident.
            Mr. Biggs' amendment to the amendment was agreed to, and the question recurred on Mr.
              Copner's substitute for the 20th section as amended.
            Mr. MACK proposed to amend further, which he suggested to Mr. Copner.
            Mr. MILES moved to amend further by striking out the twenty days clause, because it
              was not competent for the Legislature to make such a restriction effective. The
              Constitution restrains it. He read from the American Leading Cases in regard to
              Domicil, page 744, the words of Judge Weston. Wherever the voter resides at the time
              of the election, that is his domicil. Domicil is residence--a question of fact and
              intention. The book was full of decisions to this point.  The remedy is, the right to appeal to the oath of the
              voter.
            Mr. NEFF. This was a question upon which the best minds differ. The object of the
              restriction was to prevent fraudulent voting. It was in the acts of 1867 and 1869. He
              was in favor of it now. There had been fair voting under it--there was more illegal
              voting before it was enacted. Mr. Miles' amendment was rejected.
            Mr. COPNER proposed to modify his amendment as suggested by Mr. Mack.
            The amendment, as modified, was adopted.
            Sections 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 28 and 27 being read-
            Mr. CONNER proposed to add to the latter section: "Such officer failing to preserve
              said papers shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction be fined not exceeding
              $500;" which was adopted.
            Sections 28 and 29 being read--
            Mr. CONNER proposed to require the returns be made the succeeding Wednesday, instead
              of Thursday which was subsequent--
            Sections 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35 being read--
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, moved to strike out the words "if not contested;" for if
              contest is filed, no certificate of election could be obtained.
            Mr. MACK. It was the old law.
            Mr.BALLENGER thought the amendment deserved consideration. Under that provision the
              law would be liable to great abuse.
            Mr. TAYLOR spoke in favor of the amendment. This provision had made trouble, and
              perhaps it never did any good. The party who has received the majority of votes, has
              prima facie right to the certificate. In a conversation with the Governor, his
              Excellency stated that he had thought to recommend that this provision be stricken out
              of the statue.
            Mr. DAVIDSON. The old rule has operated well and done little harm. If we hold both
              parties out of the office till the Courts determine, it will take away the temptation
              to prolong the contest. It was not presumable any contestor would go into a contest on
              frivalous grounds--it applies only to those officers not commissioned by the Governor.
              The contestor must swear to the fact, and he is answerable to the contestee for
              damages for the emoluments of the office. But if you allow the contestee to go into
              the office you admit of every motive to prolong the contest.
            Mr. BIGGS. Does the gentleman know of any case where the certificate has been
              withheld?
            Mr. BALLENGER. If the certificate were withheld, how could a case of contest come
              before the House of Representatives? Mr. Calkins' amendment was agreed to--affirmative
              39, negative 38.
            Sections 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, and 43 being read--
            Mr. MACK moved to insert appropriately in the latter section the words "Attorney
              General," and "Prosecuting and District Attorneys" and "Judges of the Criminal
              Courts," which was taken by consent.
            Sections 44, 45, 46 and 47 having been read--
            Mr. BIGGS suggested that the penalty in the last section, $25 to $100, apply to all
              cases of violation of any provision of the act, and that therefore the penalty adopted
              embraced in the amendment of Mr. Conner becomes unnecessary; and he moved to
              reconsider the vote adopting that amendment.
            The motion was agreed to; and then it was withdrawn; and then--
            On motion of Mr. CONNER, the maximim of penalty in section 37 was raised, to
              $500.
            Sections 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 63, and 54, were read and agreed to by consent.
            On motion of Mr. BALLENG-ER the committee then rose; and the Chairman reported back
              the bill, [H. R. 205,] with sundry amendments, recommending their adoption.
            The report was accepted.
            
              COFFEE, TEA, SUGAR, SALT.
              Mr. NEFF moved that the House take up the special order set for 2 1/2 o'clock this
                afternoon, viz: the Senate joint resolution No. 6, for a memorial through the State
                representatives in Congress, for placing coffee, tea and sugar on the free lists--in
                the general tariff laws--the question being on the amendment of Mr. Calkins of
                Porter, that all articles of prime necessity be placed upon the free list "as soon
                as the necessities of the government will admit."
              Mr. McDONALD demanded a call of the House, where under ninety-four members
                answered--and further proceedings under the call were dispensed with.
              Mr. BALLENGER, proposed to amend the amendment, by including therein "all articles
                consumed for food or worn for clothing."
              The amendment to the amendment, was rejected yeas, 44; nays, 45; and the question
                recurred on Mr. Calkins' amendment.
              The vote on the amendment was rejected--yeas, 44; nays, 45.
              So the amendment was rejected; and the question recurred on the adoption of the
                joint resolution.
              Mr. HOLLAND proposed to amend by adding further to the free list "salt, sole
                leather, coal, pig iron and Bessemer steel."
              It was adopted--yeas 64, nays 30.
              Mr. NEFF, explaining his vote, said he was in favor of this resolution as it came
                from the Senate in good faith, and as I think this amendment will, if adopted,
                destroy the object of the resolution. I will vote no.
              Mr. MITCHELL, explaining, said he had thought to vote no on this question, but
                since the speech of the gentleman from Putnam he would vote aye.
              Mr. CAUTHORN demanded the previous question, and under its pressure, the concurrent
                resolution as amended, was adopted yeas 72, nays 18.
              Mr. McDONALD and Mr. NETHERTON explaining their votes, but neither explanation was
                recorded. Mr. McDonald's explanation for his negative vote was understood to be
                because of the adoption of the amendment by Mr. Holland; and Mr. Netherton's  negative vote, because of Mr. Cauthorn's
                amendment.
            
            
              RAILROADS.
              On motion of Mr. CONNER, the Special Committee on the Equalization of
                  Railroad Taxation, raised under his resolution, was discharged, on
                account of the Senate's proposition to raise a joint special committee to consider
                matters embracing the same subject.
              The SPEAKER announced the said joint committee on the part of the House of
                Representatives, and it consists of Messrs. Stone, Gentry, Warrum, King, Miles,
                Conner and Wood.
              On motion of Mr. WILSON, his fees and salaries bill (H. R. 157) was taken up and
                referred to the Committee on Fees and Salaries.
              On motion of Mr. WHITE, the bill to amend the eighth section of the County
                Surveyors act was taken up and placed on the Clerk's files.
              Messrs. Calkins, of Porter, Rawles, Stephens, Hardin, McDowell and Hawley obtained
                leave of absence till next week.
            
            
              REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
              Mr. SANSBERRY, from the Committee on the Organization of Courts,
                returned Mr. McDonald's bill [H. R. 116] to amend the Supreme Court act, and
                creating an additional judge, recommending its passage.
              He also returned Mr. McDonald's bill [H. R. 68] relative to the same matter,
                recommending its passage.
              Mr. FURNAS, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges,
                returned Mr. Defrees Bird and Game bill [H. R. 62] with amendments.
              Mr. ST. JOHN, from the Committee on the Organization of Courts,
                returned his Court bill [H. R. 173] with amendments.
              Mr. CAUTHORN (by consent) introduced a bill [H. R. 207] for and act to amend an act
                of January 27,1847, granting to the citizens of the town of Evansville a charter by
                adding supplemental sections thereto, (relative to city water works. It was referred
                to the Committee on Cities and Towns.
              Mr. MITCHELL offered a resolution for a lecture in the Hall by Matthew R. Hull.
              On motion of Mr. WILSON, it was laid on the table.
              Mr. BRITTON, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr. Hawley's
                gravel road law repeal bill [H. R. 124], recommending indefinite postponement as the
                subject matter involved is embraced in another bill.
              Mr. DAVIDSON desired postponement of the question of concurrence, but--
              The report was concurred in--yeas 63, nays 17.
              Mr. MARTIN, of Wayne, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr.
                Rice's supervisors election bill [H. R. 54], recommending that it be laid on the
                table.
              Mr. BRITTON, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr. Rice's 40
                foot wide road bill [H. R. 109] recommending indefinite postponement.
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. TARLTON, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr.
                McFarland's gravel road repeal bill [H. R. 127] recommending its indefinite
                postponement.
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. MILLIKEN, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr.
                Kirkpatrick's road tax bill (H. R.86) recommending that it lie on the table.
              The report was concurred in.
            
            
              AGENT OF STATE.
              Mr. McDONALD, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr. Stone's
                bill (H. R. 20) to abolish the office of Agent of State and to authorize the
                Governor and Senate to appoint a temporary Agent if necessary--with a report,
                reasoning at some length in the matter--coming to the conclusion that it is
                inexpedient to abolish said office at this session, and recommending that the bill
                be indefinitely postponed.
              Mr. ST. JOHN, from a minority of said committee, reported for the passage of said
                bill, with an amendment providing that such temporary agent shall receive a
                compensation not exceeding $1,000 a year, including office rent and expenses.
              On motion of Mr. McDONALD, the further consideration of the matter was postponed,
                and it was made the special order for Tuesday ten o'clock.
              Mr. MARTIN, of Wayne, presented two petitions for prison supervisors, and in
                relation to the divorce law.
              Mr. LINES presented a petition from two hundred citizens of Henry county for repeal
                of the gravel road law.
            
            
              NEW PROPOSITIONS.
              The SPEAKER returned to the call of the counties for bills, resolutions,
                &c.
              Mr. McDOWELL submitted a resolution for a joint select committee of one from each
                Congressional District to report a bill to re-district the State for Congressional
                purposes.
              It was rejected on a division--affirmative 37, negative 37.
            
            
              STATE DEBT SINKING FUND.
              Mr. TAYLOR submitted the following:
              
                
                  
                    WHEREAS, It is estimated by the Auditor of State that there will be on hand,
                      the first day of July next, in the Treasury of the State a surplus to the
                      credit of the State Debt Sinking Fund, which has been raised by taxation, and
                      which will not be needed for the purpose for which it was raised, amounting to
                      $650,000, and--
                    WHEREAS, In the opinion of this House the best disposition that can be made
                      of that fund is to pay it into the general fund, and thus lessen the rate of
                      taxation for State purposes for the next two years; therefore,
                    Resolved, That the Committee on Ways and
                        Means be instructed to prepare and report a bill providing for the
                      payment into the general fund of the Treasury, of all the money that is now on
                      hand, or which may be within the next two years paid into the Treasury from
                      taxation, to the credit of the State Debt Sinking Fund, which may not be
                      needed for the purposes for which it was collected.
                  
                
              
              It was adopted.
              Mr. TAYLOR introduced a bill (H. R. 208,) for an act to promote the science of
                medicine and surgery in the State of In- diana,
                and providing penalties for the violation of any of its provisions.
              It was referred to the Committee on Rights and Privileges.
              Mr. TAYLOR offered a preamble and resolution that the Committee on Claims inquire
                into the claims of Jared Crosswell, for some $13.
              Mr. CALKINS of Porter, obtained leave to introduce a bill, which will be read in
                the regular order of the call of his county tomorrow.
              On motion of Mr. WALKER, at 5:35 o'clock the House adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            FRIDAY, February 3, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A. M., the Lieutenant Governor in the Chair.
          Prayer by Rev. J. E. Scott, of the Olivet Presbyterian Church.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were being read till--
          On motion by Mr. CARNAHAN, the further reading thereof was dispensed with.
          
            LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
            Mr. Stroud obtained leave of absence till Wednesday.
            Mr. Beggs obtained leave of absence till Tuesday.
          
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. DWIGGlNS presented two petitions from citizens of White county, praying for a law
              suppressing the traffic in intoxicating liquors.
            Mr. ROBINSON presented a petition from Hon. Will Cumback and others, members of the
              bar of Decatur county, praying for a change of time in the terms of the Court of
              Common Pleas in said county, accompanied by--
            A bill [S. 175] fixing the times of holding the Court of Common Pleas in Decatur
              county, which was read the first time, by consent.
            Mr. ROBINSON, explaining the necessity for the passage of this bill--to prevent
              conflict--the Court meets on the 4th Monday in this month, &c. moved for a
              dispensation of the Constitutional restriction that the bill may be pressed to its
              final reading.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 37, nay 0.
            Adcordingly the bill was read through the second time and the third time, and then
              finally passed the Senate by yeas 35, nays 0.
            Mr. DENBO presented a petition praying for the enactment of prison reformatory laws a
              board of supervisors, three of which shall be women, &c.
            Also, a petition which was referred to the Judiciary Committee
              without reading.
            The petitions above described were severally referred to appropriate committees.
          
          
            EQUALIZATION OF TAXATION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR makes the Joint Committee on the part of
              the Senate on the equalization of railroad and other assessments, to consist of
              Messrs, Brown, Robinson, Taylor and Case.
          
          
            BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS--APPROPRIATIONS.
            Mr. WILLIAMS, from the Committee on Finance, returned with
              favorable report, the bill, [H. R. 69,] making specific appropriations for the
              benevolent institutions of the State, which was read the second time.
            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS the constitutional restriction was dispensed with--yeas 36,
              nays 0--and the bill was read the third time and finally passed by yeas 35, nays
              1.
          
          
            DRAINAGE REPEAL.
            On motion by Mr. DWIGGINS, the order of business was suspended, and the bill [H. R.
              23] repealing the ditching and drainage act of 1869--May 22d--was read the first
              time.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. JOHNSTON, from the Committee on Education, returned the bill
              [S. 63] to legalize the sale of seminary lands in Jasper county with a favorable
              report thereon.
            Mr. HESS, from the Committee on Roads, returned the bill [S. 119]
              supplemental to the gravel road acts, with amendments.
            These reports go to the files under a rule adopted by consent.
            Mr. SARINGHAUSEN, from the Committee on Claims, returned the claim
              of Stearns Fisher of $50 and odd cents for visiting Indianapolis at the request of the
              Adjutant General of Indiana to assist in adjusting accounts, with a recommendation
              that the claim be allowed.
            Mr. HOOPER, from the same committee, returned the claim of Alf. Thompson for $151 and
              odd cents for purchase money of lands where there was a failure of title, with a
              similar report.
            Mr. CARNAHAN, from the same committee, returned the claim of Matthew L. Brett for
              $1,360 for $1,000 stolen or overpaid from the State Treasury while he was acting as
              State Treasurer, with a similar report.
            Mr. FRANCISCO, from the same committee, returned the claim of Wm. A. Bonham for $54
              30 for services as Secretary in the organization of the Senate, with a similar
              report.
            Mr. HESS, from the same committee, returns the claim of the widow of James Blake  for $250 for services as Indiana Commissioner to
              the Gettysburg Cemetary, with a similar recommendation.
            The reports were referred to the Committee on Finance with
              instructions to incorporate tho same in the specific appropriation bill.
          
          
            HYDRAULIC COMPANIES.
            Mr. BIGGS, from the select committee theroon, returned the bill [S. 163] to authorize
              the consolidation of hydraulic companies, with a favorable report.
            On his motion the constitutional restriction was dispensed with--yeas 34, nays
              0--that the bill may be pressed to the final reading.
            Accordingly it was read the second time.
            Mr. BEGGS explaining that in White Water Valley there were four companies desiring to
              consolidate, one of which runs into the State of Ohio, and that a bill similar to this
              was now pending in the Ohio Legislature.
            The bill was read the third time and passed the Senate by yeas 36, nays 1.
          
          
            RAILROAD CONSOLIDATION.
            Mr. JOHNSTON, from the special committee thereon, returned the bill [S. 173]
              legalizing the consolidation of several railroad companies under the name of
              Logansport, Crawfordsville & Southwestern Railroad Company, and its present
              organization and preceedings, with a favorable report.
            He moved for a dispensation of the constitutional restriction that the bill may be
              pressed to its final reading--making explanations of its intents and purposes.
            Mr. WOOD also made additional explanations.
            The motion for a dispensation, was agreed to by yeas 35, nays 0, and the bill was
              read the third time and passed by the Senate by yeas 35, nays 0.
          
          
            DAYS OF GRACE.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved to reconsider the vote by which the bill [9. 149] concerning
              commercial paper was passed yesterday. He desired an amendment that no grace shall be
              allowed on sight drafts or bills of exchange payable by banks or on checks drawn upon
              a bank in the usual way.
            The motion was agreed to, the bill was amended as suggested, and then again passed
              the Senate by yeas 34, nays 0.
          
          
            RAILROAD EXTENSION.
            On motion by Mr. CARNAHAN the bill [H. R. 79] extending the time for the completion
              of certain railroads was read the first time.
            Mr. CARNAHAN moved for a dispensation that the bill may be read by title only for the
              purpose of reference to a select committee.
            The motion was rejected by yeas 33, nays 2.
          
          
            ALLEN COUNTY SENATORIAL CONTEST.
            Mr. JOHNSTON, from the Committee on Elections, reported on the
              contested case of Bird vs Saringhausen that--
            On motion of the contestee the Committee stuck out the alleged causes of contest, for
              insufficiency, and that the contestor moves--the Committee for leave to amend his
              notice and causes for contest.
            Mr. JOHNSTON remarked that he thought it proper to make this report to the Senate for
              action; and in order that fair play may be had and justice done to all parties, he
              moved that it be referred back to the committee, with instructions to allow parties to
              come in and be heard.
            Mr. SCOTT did not think it necessary to ask the Senate for that privilege, for it
              occurred to him that the committee has that right already. The report is made for the
              purpose of informing the Senate that the party desires to amend and it was thought the
              committee had not the power to allow it.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved to amend the motion to refer by authorizing the committee to
              allow the party to amend if the committee desire.
            Mr. JOHNSTON accepted.
            The motion, as amended, was agreed to.
            Mr. JOHNSTON stating that two members of this committee were absent--Judge Hughes,
              who would probably be away during the remainder of the session, and Mr. Bobo, who has
              leave of absence till Monday week--he moved to add to the committee Messrs. Glessner
              and Lasalle.
            Mr. BRADLEY announced Mr. Bobo's desire to be excused from further service on this
              committee.
            Mr. MARTINDALE cited the rule which provides that no standing committee shall consist
              of more than seven members.
            Mr. JOHNSTON, to obviate this objection, moved that Mr. Bobo be excused from acting
              on the committee.
            The motion was agreed to.
            Mr. DOUGHERTY moved that Mr. Brown be placed on the Committee to fill the
              vacancy.
            Mr. HENDERSON made an ineffectual motion to lay this motion on the table.
            Mr. JOHNSTON made an ineffectual motion--yeas 15, nays 20 to strike out the name of
              Mr. Brown, and insert in lieu the name of Mr. Glesener.
            The motion--Mr. Dougherty's, was agreed to.
            And then, came the noon recess.
            CORRECTION.--The bill S. 162. introduced yesterday forenoon on the
              subject of gravel roads, should be credited to Mr. Miller, and not Mr. Collett, as
              printed in these columns.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at 2 o'clock, and announced the order for
              bills. The following described propositions were introduced, read the first time and
              passed to the second reading:
            By Mr. BRADLEY, a bill [S. 176] conferring power on Common Councils of cities to
              compel owners of land fronting on docks to dredge out and keep such docks in
              repair.
            By Mr. JOHNSTON, a bill [S. 177] declaring express companies and through line
              companies common carriers, and providing for suit in cases of non-performance of
              contracts.

            

            By Mr. HUBBARD, a bill [S. 178] to authorize the construction of levees, dykes, and
              drains by incorporated companies, and repealing all conflicting laws.
            By Mr. STEELE, a bill [S. 179] to prevent any person from hiring or allowing persons
              to sell or give away intoxicating liquors in less quantity than a quart at a time;
              providing punishment and a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100, to which may
              be added imprisonment for any time not exceeding twenty days--Justices of the Peace to
              have concurrent jurisdiction with Circuit and Common Pleas Courts.
            By Mr. GREEN, a bill [S. 180] declaring public squares not marked on town plats for
              any specific purpose may be appropriated for common school purposes.
            By Mr. MARTINDALE, a bill [S. 181] relative to the salaries of certain officers
              therein named, how to be paid, &c. To the Governor, $5,000; Treasurer, $3,500;
              Auditor, $3,500; Secretary, $3,000; Judges of the Supreme Court, $3,500; Circuit
              Judges, $2,500; Governor's Secretary, $1,200, &c.
            By Mr. HENDERSON, a bill [S. 182] to amend section 2 of the act relating to the
              Baptist Educational Society for Indiana.
            
              REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
              Mr. GLESSNER, from the committee thereon, returned the bill [S. 180] to extend the
                time for the completion of certain railroads, recommending that it lie on the
                table.
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. SCOTT, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned the
                bill [S. 65] amending the act concerning descents, recommending its passage.
              Also, the bill [S. 74] to enable voluntary associations to elect trustees, with a
                favorable report.
              Also, the bill [S. 81] to confer power upon Courts to appoint persons to grant
                writs of habeas corpus, &c., recommending its passage.
              These reports go to the files by consent.
            
            
              SOLDIERS' HOME.
              Mr. DITTEMORE, from the Committee on Military Affairs, returned
                the resolution for the appointment of committee of three to ascertain whether the
                Dayton's Seamens' Home can accommodate the soldiers a Knightstown, with amendments
                authorizing the entire Committee on Military Affairs to visit the
                Soldiers' National Home at Dayton.
              Mr. GREEN objected to sending our soldiers out of the State, because they do not
                want to go. He moved to lay the amendment on the table.
              The motion was rejected upon a division--affirmative 16, negative 19.
              The amendment was agreed to.
              Mr. GREEN said the effect of this would be to say we want to get rid of keeping our
                soldiers.
              Mr. DITTEMORE regarded it as an unpleasant thing to speak--and, indeed, he would
                not speak of the facts in plain terms--but the officers at the Knightstown Home, and
                the committee which visited the Home the other day, regard their removal as but an
                act of justice to the children kept there.
              The resolution as amended was adopted.
              Mr. KEIGWIN, from the Committee on Military Affairs, reported in
                favor of printing 200 copies of the report of the Adjutant General.
              The report was concurred in.
            
            
              ESTATES AND DESCENTS.
              On motion by Mr. BRADLEY, the bill [S. 65] to amend the 18th section of the act of
                May 14, 1852, regulating descents and the apportionment of estates, was read the
                second time; and the constitutional restriction being dispensed with by yeas 34,
                nays 4, the bill was read the third time.
              Mr. GREEN thought the bill one of equity and justice.
              Mr. HADLEY regarded the present law or this subject as intended to protect the wife
                against undue influence by a second or subsequent husband, in the alienation of
                property acquired or inherited by virtue of a former marriage; and he regarded this
                law as a good one--one that should not be disturbed consequently he opposed the
                passage of the bill.
              Mr. HOOPER favored the bill because the present law was now evaded by the widow
                alienating her estate before marriage.
              Mr. GLESSNER understood this bill would take from children of a widow real estate
                that the law now declares to belong to her children by the husband from whom the
                property was derived. He regarded this as a vested right of the children, and this
                bill proposes by one fell stroke to take every vestage of right from such children.
                Such a measure would cover and cause to be instituted more lawsuits than probobly
                any other measure that can be introduced here. He thought this bill monstrous; and
                earnestly plead against the taking of property from the orphan children of this land
                and placing it in the hands of designing men.
              Mr. DWIGGINS also opposed the provisions of this bill--the first section on the
                ground of principle. The bill proposes that the homestead of the widow after
                marriage may be sold and the proceeds placed in the pocket of her husband, and by
                him frittered away, thus depriving the orphan children by the first husband of the
                property really belonging to them in right and in equity, and according to the
                provisions of the law as it now exists.
              Mr. WOOD thought some of the objections raised to this bill could be obviated by
                allowing women to hold separate property.
              Mr. MARTINDALE regarded the present law as containing objectionable features, and
                thought it should be amended so as to give the right of alienation where there are
                no children. He would like to see the bill recommitted, with instructions to inquire
                into the propriety of an amendment to the effert that a bond shall be issued in the
                cases referred to, that a portion of the proceeds of the property shall be used for
                the education and maintenance of the children.
              Mr. BRADLEY insisted that when a widow gets property from a deceased husband  it should be her's, and should not be taken away
                from her because she may marry again. And he could not understand how the children
                have vested rights, as some Senators contend in this discussion.
              Mr. GREEN declared the object of the bill- to remove the restraint now imposed upon
                a widow's marrying, and regarded it as founded upon equal and exact justice.
              Mr. DWIGGINS moved that the bill be recommitted, with instructions to strike out
                the second section.
              Mr. BROWN favored the passage of the because it would remove an embargo now
                existing upon widows, which acts in such a way as to prevent their marriage.
              The bill was rejected, by yeas 16, nays 21.
            
            
              ALLEN COUNTY SENATORIAL CONTEST.
              Mr. BROWN, by leave, submitted the following report:
              
                
                  
                    The Committee on Elections, to whom was referred the
                      matter of contest wherein Ochmig Bird contest the right of John Saringhausen
                      to a seat in the Forty-Seventh Session of the General Assembly as a Senator
                      from the county of Allen have had the same under consideration, and the
                      majority of the committee have instructed me to make the following report:
                    Your committee find the statement of contest--legally sufficient, and that
                      the same is sustained--by the evidence in the case.
                    They therefore recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
                    Resolved, That said John Saringhausen is not entitled to a
                      seat in the Forty-seventh General Assembly of the State of Indiana as a
                      Senator from the county of Allen, and that the said Ochnig Bird is entitled to
                      said seat as a Senator from said county of Allen, and that the oath of office
                      be now administered to him.
                    
                      JASON B. BROWN
                      A. STEEL
                      H.D. SCOTT
                      A S. CASE
                      W. E. DITTEMORE
                    
                  
                
              
              Mr. Johnston dissents from the majority of the committee.
              Mr. GLESSNER moved to postpone the further consideration of this report, and that
                it be made the special order for Thursday next.
              Mr. BROWN moved to lay this motion on the table.
              This motion was agreed to by yeas 20, nays 15.
              Mr. STEELE demanded the previous question.
              Mr. WILLIAMS appealed in vain, that this motion be withdrawn for but a moment.
              The Senate seconded the demand for the previous question.
              The report and resolution were adopted by yeas 21, nays 17--as follows:
              
                
                  
                    YEAS--Messrs. Andrews. Beardsley, Beeson. Brown, Case,
                      Caven, Collett, Dittemore, Dougherty, Dwiggins, Elliott, Francisco, Gray,
                      Green, Hess, Hubbard, Martindale, Miller, Scott, Steele and Taylor--21.
                    NAYS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Bradley, Carnahan, Cave,
                      Denbo, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg, Hadley, Henderson, Johnson, Keigwin, Robinson,
                      Rosebrugh, Wadge and Williams--17.
                  
                
              
              On motion by Mr. BROWN, his motion to reconsider the vote just taken was laid on
                the table by yeas 21, nays 17.
              The LT. GOVERNOR then said If Mr. Bird is present he will come forward and have the
                oath of office administered.
              Mr. BIRD thereupon advanced near the dias and received the oath of office at the
                hand of the Lt. Governor.
              Mr. WADGE moved for a dispensation of the constitutional restriction, that the bill
                [S. 173] authorizing aid to railroads by counties and townships may be read by its
                title for the purpose of reference to a Committee.
              The motion was rejected by yeas 32, nays not announced.
              A motion to adjourn was rejected by yeas 14, nays 20.
              A resolution that when the Senate adjourn it adjourn till Monday at 2 o'clock P.
                M., was adopted by yeas 26, nays 8.
              And then, on motion, the Senate adjourned.
            
          
        

        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            FRIDAY, February 3, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.--the order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. Sloss, Pastor of
            the Fourth Presbyterian Church.
          The journal of yesterday was read and approved--till on motion of Mr. HARTLEY, the
            further reading was dispensed with.
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The SPEAKER resumed the call of the counties for bills, resolutions, &c.
            Mr. ABBETT presented sundry petitions on temperance, which were referred without
              reading.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, introduced a bill, [H. R. 209] for an act allowing appeals
              from the orders of Common Councils in certain cases.
            Mr. BROWNING introduced a bill, [H. R. 210], for an act to provide for the selection
              of depositories for the safe keeping of the public moneys. It was referred to the
                Committee on County and Township Business.
            Mr. McFARLAND offered a resolution which was adopted, directing the
                Committee on Temperance to return his bill, [H. R. 125], with
              their report thereon at an early day.
            Mr. BARNABY--a bill, [H. R. 211], for an act to authorize affidavits made outside of
              the State to be sworn to before notaries public.
            Mr. BARNABY--a bill [H. R. 212] for an act to regulate the weight of mineral coal
              mined in this State. (Seventy-six pounds to the bushel)
            Mr. CALDWELL--a bill [H. R. 213] for an act to regulate the fees and salaries of
              certain county officers, and repealing all laws in conflict therewith.
            Mr. CALDWELL-a bill [H. R. 214] for an act supplemental to an act to amend an act
              authorizing county recorders and county surveyors to issue fee bills.
            Mr. HAYNES--a bill [H. R. 215] for an act supplemental to an act regulating descents
              and the apportionment of estates.
            Mr. TEBBS--a bill [H. R. 216] authorizing county commissioners to levy a tax for the
              repairing of gravel and plank roads, and providing for the disbursement of the
              same.
            Mr. STRICKLAND-a bill [H. R. 218] for an act to confirm and make valid the sale  of real estate made in this State by trustees or
              by domestic and foreign executors.
            Mr. SNODGRASS--a biil [H. R. 219] for an act to amend section 16 of the act providing
              for the election or appointment of supervisors of highways and prescribing certain
              duties, etc.
            Mr. BRITTON offered a resolution, which was agreed to, directing the
                Committee on Railroads to inquire into the necessity of a law
              subjecting railroads either partially or entirely completed to assessments and
              taxation under the law. [He said the object looking to remedy for the law that
              railroads are assessed for taxation but once in six years.]
            Mr.WILLIAMS--a bill [H. R. 220] for an act to amend an act entitled an act
              authorizing the construction of plank, macadamized or gravel roads, approved May 12,
              1952.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. A biil [H. R. 221,] for an act to regulate the sale of intoxicating
              liquors, and authorizing the collection by law of damages resulting from the sale of
              the same.
            Mr. MYERS (for Mr. DEFREES) presented a petition which was referred to the
                Committee on Railroads--
            Mr. MYERS. A bill [H. R. 222,] for an act to authorize Boards of County Commissioners
              of the several counties of the State to purchase dockets for Justices of the
              Peace.
            Mr. St. JOHN. A bill [H. R. 223.] (the title was not read. It is, that where no
              school is taught in any district, the money belonging to said district shall remain in
              the hands of the Township Trustee, for the use of said district.)
            Mr. BROWNING (for Mr. MINICH) A bill (H. R. 224) for an act to provide for the
              payment of the salaries of the Common Pleas Judges out of the State Treasury, and to
              provide for the payment of the docket fees of said Court into the State Treasury.
            Mr. CONNER, a bill [H. R 225] for an act to legalize the ordinances, acts, tax
              assessments and resolutions of the Board of Trustees of the town of Noblesville,
              during the year 1870.
            Mr. MILLIKAN presented a petition for the increase of the compensation of Judicial
              officers.
            Mr. FURNAS presented the petition of the Secretary of the Stone Cutter's Association
              for the use of the Hall of the House of Representatives Saturday evening, February 4th
              at 7 1/2 o'clock, for a funeral; and on his motion, the request was granted by
              unanimous consent.
            Mr. FURNAS submitted a resolution to pledge the members to make no motion to adjourn
              during the afternoon session of each day till half-past five o'clock.
            On motion of Mr. WILSON, it was laid on the table.
            Mr. Haynes presented a petition on Temperance.
            Mr. KIRKPATRICK offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                Committee on Fees and Salaries to consider the propriety of
              transferring all the papers and records in relation to the issue of marriage licenses
              from the office of the county clerks to that of the county recorders, and the report
              by bill or otherwise.
            Mr. KIRKPATRICK presented petitions on the subject of divorces, and the supervision
              of Reformatory Institutions.
            Mr. WASHBURN presented the petition of members of the car of the county of Pulaski,
              asking that said county be set off, and made part of the 25th judicial
              distric--presented petitions on the subject of divorces, and the supervision of
              Reformatory Institutions.
            Mr. WASHBURN introduce a bill (H. r. 226) for an act to protect fur-bearing
              animals--[muskrats, minks, and racoons]--from April to December.
          
          
            WILE-SCHOENEMANN CONTEST.
            Mr. WILSON called for the special order of the hour, to wit: The consideration of the
              report of the Judiciary Committee, submitted yesterday, returning
              the Committee on Elections in the Wile Schoenemann contest,
              resolving that Mr. Wile is entitled to the seat, and the report of one division of the
              Judiciary thereon, recommending the adoption of the report on the Committee
                on elections.
            Mr. CAUTKORN submitted the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That William Schoenmann, Representative elect to
                    this General Assembly for the county of Laporte, being disqualified by the
                    constitution from holding a seat in this House, by virtue of his having held,
                    prior to and on the day of the commencement of the present session, the office
                    of Deputy Postmaster at Michigan City, Indiana, an office created and held under
                    the authority of the United States, and the annual compensation thereof being
                    over $90 per annum, the seat is hereby declared to be vacant, and the Clerk of
                    this House is ordered to notify the Governor of said vacancy without delay.
                  Resolved, That the resolutions recommended by the
                      Committee on Elections, as well as the resolutions
                    recommended by the Committee on the Judiciary, in reference
                    to this case be, and the same are, severally ordered to be laid on the
                    table.
                
              
            
            Mr. WILSON, from a majority of the Committee on the Judiciary,
              submitted a report in writing on the matter of said contest, discenting from the
              report of the other division of said committee--reasoning at length and adducing the
              authrorities thereon--which he read from his place.
            Mr. CAUTHORN then took the floor and spoke in support of his resolutions, reviewing
              the case at length. His speech is crowded out for lack of space in these columns.
            Mr. NEFF moved to prepare the further consideration of this matter, and make ti the
              special order for Tuesday.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY and Mr. BALLENGER opposed--demanding the yeas and nays--which
              resulted--yeas 45, nays 37, as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Barnaby, Britton, Browning, Bruner,
                    Caldwell, Cautboru, Cox, Copner, Cunningham, Curtis, Davidson, Donham,
                    Galletine, Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Cass, Guthrie, Hartley, Haynes, Henderson,
                    Hendry, Hynes, McDonald, McFarland, McGowan, Miles, Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff,
                    Oakley, Ray, Rice, Sansberry, Sayers, Simpson, Shutt, Stanley, Tarlton,
                    Taughinbaugn, Tebbs, Walker, Warrum, Zenor and Mr Speaker--45.
                  NMAYS--Messrs. Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Butterworth,
                    Calkins of Fulton, Conner, Deputy, Friedley, Furnas, Gordon of Boone, Heilman,
                    Hill, Hooker, Kennedy, Kirkpatrick, Knight,  Lines, Major, Martin of Wayne, Martin of Putnam, Millikan, Monroe, Myers,
                    Netherton, Rhodes, Ruddell, Snodgrass, Stephenson, St. John. Stone, Taylor,
                    Washburn, Williams, Wilson, Wood Woodard and Wymer37.
                
              
            
            So the matter was made ths special order for Tuesday, 11 o'clock.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The SPEAKER resumed again the roll of the counties for new propositions.
            Mr. DEPUTY presented a resolution directory to the Committee on Benevolent
                Institutions, which was referred without reading.
             On motion of Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, (the rule and constitutional restriction being
              suspended for that purpose) the bill [S. 23] to constitute the 25th Judical District,
              (of the counties of Cass, Pulaski and Miami), was taken up, considered in the several
              stages of reading, and finally passed the House of Representatives without
              amendment--yeas 80, nays none.
            Mr. SIMPSON, a bill [H. R. 226] for an act to protect the flag, stands of colors, or
              guerdons of the State of Indiana.
            Mr. SIMPSON--a bill [H. R. 227], to make it a duty of Justices of the Peace, notaries
              public and Clerks of the counties to certify and affix the seal of their office to
              soldiers' papers, applications, powers of attorney, for making applications for bounty
              money, back pay and pensions, without compensation.
            Mr. SIMPSON--a bill [H. R. 228] to amend section 26 of the act defining misdemeanors,
              and prescribing punishment therefore, approved June 14,1852. [It to punish the sale of
              intoxicating liquors to minors.]
            Mr. SIMPSON--a bill [H. R. 229] to repeal section 2 of an act defining certain
              misdemenors and prescribing punishment therefor (The provoke law.)
            Mr. MONROE offered a preamble and resolution, (which was referred) to authorize the
              Governor to offer a reward of $500 for the arrest of Jacob P. Fleming, the alleged
              murderer of Abel Hale, late of Jefferson county.
            Mr. BIGGS-a bill [H. R. 230] for an act to amend section 420 of the practice act. (It
              regulates the time of stay of execution on judgments from 30 days to 120 days
              according to the amounts involved.)
            Mr. CAUTHORN- a bill [H. R. 231] for an act authorizing the making and recording of
              city plats, and making the same and copies thereof competent evidence.
            Mr. BARNABY submitted a resolution for restraining leaves of absence, which was
              rejected.
            Mr. BIGGS (for Mr. Rawles) a bill [H. R. 232] for an act to amend sections 23 and 24
              of an act to provide for the valuation and assessment of real and personal property,
              and for the collection of taxes, etc., approved June 21, 1852.
            Also (for Mr. Rawles) a bill[H. R. 233] for an act to amend sections 453, 455, and to
              repeal sections 445, 446, 447, 458, 449, 450,and 451 of the general practice act.
            The House then took a recess till two clock P.M.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed at 2 o'clock P. M., Mr. Neff in the chair, the call of the
              counties for--
            
              NEW PROPOSITIONS.
              Mr. SANSBERBY presented a claim, which was referred without reading.
              Mr. RUDDELL introduced a bill [H. R. 234] for an act providing for a general system
                of common schools in cities of 30,000 inhabitants and over, and for the election of
                Boards of Common School Commissioners, and to provide for a Common School Library in
                such cities.
              Mr. RUDDELL, a bill [H. R. 235] for an act to amend the Treasury system act of
                March 9, 1859, by a supplemental section (17.) It proposes penalties for violation
                of said act--from $100 to $1,000--and two years' imprisonment.
              Mr. WILSON--a bill, [H. R. 236], for an act to repeal all general laws for the
                incorporation or cities, and to provide for the incorporation of cities, and
                prescribe their powers, duties, rights, &c.. and on his motion, (the rules and
                constitutional provision having been suspended for the purpose yeas, 70; nays, 3 )
                it was read twice by title, and referred to the Committee on Cities and
                  Towns.
              Mr. MITCHELL--a bill, [H. R. 337], for an act to provide the mode of filling
                vacancies in the Board of Trustees of the Indiana University, and repealing,
                &c., [elective by the Governor, Secretary, Auditor and Treasurer of State, and
                the Superintendent of Public Instruction;] and on his motion, (the restrictions
                having been suspended for the purpose--yeas, 70; nays 5) the bill was carried
                through the several stages of reading and finally passed the House of
                Representatives--yeas 51; nays 27. Mr. Mitchell explained that the present mode of
                filling these vacancies by the State Board of Education is not satisfactory, because
                certain members of that Board know nothing about the University.
            
            
              REMOVAL OF THE NATIONAL CAPITAL.
              The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz : the consideration of Mr. Buddell's
                concurrent resolution tor a Congressional memorial for removal of the National
                capital to a more central locality; and instructing against all appropriations for
                the improvement of the National capitol in its present location.
              Mr. McDONALD demanded the previous question, and under its force, the resolution
                was adopted without a division.
            
            
              RAILROADS.
              On motion of Mr. COPNER (the constitutional restrictions having been removed for
                the purpose--yeas 67, nays 13,) the engrossed bill [S. 173] to legalize the acts of
                the stockholders and directors of the several railroad companies consolidated under
                the name of the Logansport, Crawfordsville & Southwestern Railway Company, was
                taken up, read the three times prescribed by the Constitution, and finally passed
                the House of Representatives--yeas 75, nays 5.
              Mr. WILLIAMS moved to suspend the 
                constitutional restrictions and take up the bill [S. 21], the bill (he said)
                defining bribery of a member of the Legislature, that the same may be now put upon
                its passage.
              Mr. NEFF moved to lay the motion on the table.
              The yeas and nays thereon resulted--yeas 59, nays 27; so the motion to suspend the
                restrictions was laid on the table.
              Mr. MAJOR offered a preamble and resolutions that the House will not adjourn over
                for a longer time than from Saturday noon till Monday, 2 o'clock P. M.
              On motion of Mr. RUDDELL, it was laid on the table.
              Mr. WOODARD--a bill [H. R. 238] for an act for the completion of all railroads for
                which time has heretofore been extended, and where railroads are not yet finished.
                [Two years more.]
              Mr. WOODARD--a bill [H. R. 239] for an act to protect passengers' baggage from
                careless handling by the employes of railroads, canals, express, stage, or omnibus
                companies, etc., and prescribing penalties therefor.
              Mr. WOODARD--a bill [H. R. 240] for an act to amend section 10 of an act regulating
                fees and salaries of officers, and repealing former acts in relation thereto,
                approved March 2,1855.
              Mr. NEFFa bill [H. R. 241] for an act to amend section 79 of an act to provide for
                a system of common schools, etc., approved March 6, 1865. He said its object is to
                require the sale of certain lands in the State mortgaged to the school fund, for the
                amount of the debt, not according to their appraised value.
              Mr. NEFF, a bill [H. R. 242] for an act to provide for paroling prisoners confined
                in any county jail on account of the non-payment of fines upon conviction of any
                public offense. [The Governor may grant leaves of absence from prison.]
              Mr. NEFF [H. R. 243] for an act defining libel and fixing the punishment
                thereof.
              Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, [H. R. 244] for an act to establish a reasonable maximum
                rate of charges for passengers on the railroads of this State. [Passengers and 100
                pounds of baggage, 3 cents per mile; penalty, $300 and forfeiture of
                franchises.]
              Mr. WASHBURN, [H. R. 245], for an act to regulate the sale of drugs and medicines:
                the druggist shall place the name of the drug on every package sold, and add the
                cross-bones and skull if it be poisonous--maximum penalty $50.
              Mr. WASHBURN, [H. R. 246], for an act to amend an act to encourage the destruction
                of wolves.
              Mr. STONE, a bill [H. R. 247] for an act allowing turnpike companies in this State
                to charge toll when one and a half miles of continuous road are completed.
              Mr. STONE offered a resolution tendering this hall to the State Temperance Alliance
                for the formal presentation of their memorial to the General Assembly, and inviting
                the Senate on.
              On motion of Mr. MILES the blank was filled with "Tuesday evening next at 7 1/2
                o'clock."
              And so the resolution was adopted.
              Mr. HILL presented a petition for prison reform.
              Mr. HENDERSON. A bill [H. R. 248,] for an act to regulate the use of streets,
                alleys and highways in cities and towns by railroads.
              Mr. HENDERSON. A bill [H. R. 249,] for an act to amend Section 1 of the act to
                incorporate the University of Notre Dame Du Loc.
              Mr. MARTIN of Wayne obtained leave of absence till next week.
              Mr. NETHERTON submitted a resolution which was referred without reading.
              Mr. DEPUTY (for Mr. Holland) a bill [H. R. 250] for an act to amend section 45 of
                the act defining felonies, &c., approved June 10, 1852.
              Also (for Mr. Holland), [H. R. 251] for at act fixing the time of holding Circuit
                Court j in the several counties composing the First Judicial Circuit.
              Mr. DEPUTY moved an order that when the House adjourn to-day, it shall be till
                Monday at 2 o'clock.
              On motion of Mr. NEFF it was laid on the table--yeas, 57; nays, 16.
              Messrs. Monroe and Ballenger obtained leave of absence till Monday.
              Mr. DAVIDSON, a bill [H. R. 252] for an act defining what counties shall constitute
                the 12th Judicial Circuit, and fixing the time of holding court therein, and
                repealing. &c.
              Mr. DAVIDSON submitted a preamble and resolution, which was adopted, authorizing a
                committee of one from each Congressional District to inquire into the expediency of
                abolishing the Court of Common Pleas and establishing an intermediate Court of
                Appeals, &c., and report by bill or otherwise.
              Mr. STEPHENSON, a bill [H. R. 253] for an act authoricing the Auditor of State to
                make proper distribution of moneys arising from insurance companies.
              Mr. HEILMAN,a bill [H. R. 251], for an act to amend section 17 of the act
                containing several provisions in relation to landlord and tenant, approved May 22,
                1852.
              Mr. HOOKER, a bill [H. R. 255] for an act to amend section 16 of an act concerning
                real estate and alienation thereof. [Mortgages must be recorded in 15 days or be
                void as against subsequent purchasers.]
              Mr. HOOKER presented a paper which was referred to the Committee on Fees
                  and Salaries.
              Mr. WHITE--a bill [H. R. 256] for an act to amend sections 1 to 14 of the act of
                June 14, 1852, concerning trespassing animals and partition fences.
              Mr. KNIGHT--a bill [H. R. 257] for an act to revise and amend an act to provide
                compensation to the owners of animals killed by locomotives.
              Mr. RHODES--a bill [H. R. 258] for an act to amend the 8th section of an act
                relating to descents and the apportionment of estates, approved March 14, 1852.
              Mr. OATLEY, a bill [H. R. 259] for an act to prevent placing obstructions in
                streams of  water, making provisions for
                removing such obstructions, prescribing duties in relation thereto, and penalties
                for violation of this act.
              Mr. BALLENGER, a bill [H. R. 260] for in act to amend section 3 of the general city
                corporation act.
              Mr. BALLENGER, a bill [H. R. 261] for an act repealing an act providing for the
                redemption of real property, or any interest therein, &c.
              Mr. BALLENGER, a bill [H. R. 262] for an act to amend an act to authorize any
                person desiring to erect a flouring mill, or other machinery to be propelled by
                water, on his own land, to make a way for the flow of water through other lands,
                &c., and supplemental thereto.
              Mr. BALLENGER presented sundry petitions, which were referred without reading.
              Mr. WYMER submitted an order to pay the employes of the Doorkeeper $5 a day from
                the beginning of the session.
              On motion of Mr. SABIN it was referred to the Committee on the
                  Judiciary.
              Mr. McDONALD submitted a preamble and resolution, which was adopted, to inquire
                into the compensation of Agent of State and report on the 6th of February.
              Mr. MINICH, a bill [H. R. 263]. The title was not read.
              Mr. SCHOENEMANNa bill [H. R 264] for an act to amend sections 47 and 63 of the
                general city corporation act of March 14, 1865.
              Messrs. McFarland and Rhodes obtained leave of absence till Monday.
              Reports of the Adjutant General, of the trustees of the State Normal School were
                appropriately referred, together with the several documents and papers submitted by
                the Governor.
              On motion of Mr. STRICKLAND (the constitutional restrictions having been removed
                for the purpose) the bill [S. 175] to fix the time of holding Common Pleas Courts in
                the county of Decatur and repealing all laws inconsistent therewith, was taken up,
                read three times and finally passed the House of Representatives--yeas 80, nays
                0.
              The House then at half past five o'clock adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          The Senate did not sit to-day.
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            SATURDAY, February 4, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock a. m. Prayer by the Rev. Mr. Smith.
          Mr. GORDON of Boone, asked and obtained leave of absence for the day.
          The SPEAKER. In the regular order of business to-day we shall have a good-deal to do
            which can be done without a quorum.
          Mr. SABIN. What business can the House do without a quorum? I understand it can not do
            anything but to adjourn.
          The SPEAKER. Well, but some things may be done while we do not know but we have a
            quorum.
          Mr. NEFF. The presumption is that we have a quorum.
          The SPEAKER directed that the journal of yesterday be read; and it was read by the
            clerk, according to order--till
          On motion of Mr. HILL its further reading was dispensed with.
          
            THE CALENDAR.
            The SPEAKER announced the consideration of bills from the Senate on the first
              reading.
            Mr. NEFF Mr. Speaker, I would like to know if it was not in order to call for reports
              from Committees this morning.
            The SPEAKER The first thing in order is bills from the Senate. We have a regular
              order of business to go through with. We will get back with the order for reports from
              committees after awhile. We have first the reading of the journal; secondly, business
              pending at the time of adjournment yesterday, etc., but we have a question here with
              some as to whether we should go through with the entire order, and thereupon tho Chair
              would like to hear the opinion of gentlemen.
            Mr WILSON. We go through the order of business unless there is a sunpension of the
              rules to take up somethihg else or something else be dono by unanimous consent.
            Mr. SABIN. We have always been accustomed here to have a morning hour, in which
              petitions and memorials may be presented. Then we come to the regular or special order
              of business.
            Mr. WILSON read from rule 52 as follows: "As soon as the journal is read and the
              unfinished business in which the House was engaged at the last preceding adjournment
              has been disposed of, reports from Committees shall be called for," &c. Now, if we
              have unfinished business at the time of the adjournment yesterday on the table, that
              will have to be first disposed of. Beyond that, the order of business can only be stir
              pended by a two-thirds vote, or by unanimous consent. If the House sees proper not to
              take up the unfinished business, we may take up any other business, but it must be by
              a suspension of the rules.
            The SPEAKER. The Chair would like to have this matter settled definitely.
            Mr. WILSON. I do not think Mr. Speaker, we have been acting strictly according to the
              order of business as laid down in the rules; but still, as we have been getting along
              smoothly, I do not think it best to interrupt the order of business by questions of
              order. But common sense as well as the ordinary parlimentary law, show that the House
              can do anything by unanimous consent.
            The SPEAKER. The question is, what will come naturally in order?
            Mr. MILES suggested the opinion that reports from committees would be in order.
            The SPEAKER then announced the order of the consideration of bills from the Senate on
              the first reading.
          
          
            THE BRIBERY BILL.
            The engrossed bill [S. 21] for an act to amend section 34 of the act to amend section
              39 of the act to define felonies, and prescribing punishment therefor, approved June
              10, 1852, (commonly called "the bribery bill,") was read the first time by the
              clerk.
            On motion of Mr. CAUTHORN it was referred to the Committee on the
                Judiciary.
          
          
            TWENTY-EIGHTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
            The engrossed bill [S. 23] for an act to fix the times of holding circuit court in
              the 28th circuit, [the circuit embraces the counties of Johnson, Shelby, Brown and
              Bartholo-  mew] having been read the first time
              by the clerk.
            Mr. LINES. I move that the bill be referred to the Committee on the
                Organization of Courts.
            Mr. BROWNING, We have some amendments to propose to that bill.
            The SPEAKER. It is perhaps desirable that it should be referred to a special
              committee of one from each of the counties interested.
            Mr. BROWNING. I make that motion.
            The motion was agreed to, and subsequently the Speaker announced the special
              committee to consider the bill, namely: Messrs. Browning, Mitchell, Major, Curtis,
              Abbett and Tarlton.
          
          
            THE DIVORCE LAW.
            The engrossed bill [S. 8] for an act to amend sections 6, 7 and 11 of the act
              regulating the granting of divorces, nullification of marriage contracts, and the
              orders and decrees of Court incident thereto, approved May 13,1852, and repealing all
              laws conflicting with this act, was read the first time.
            It proposes, for the sixth section of said act:
            "Divorces may be decreed by the Circuit and Common Pleas Courts of this State on
              petition filed by any person who, at the times of the filing of such petition, and for
              one year previous, shall have been a bona fide resident of the State
              and of the county where such petition is filed, but if the act complained of was
              committed while such parties were non-residents of this State and the act was
              committed in another State, such residence shall be for two years previous to the
              filling of such petition; which bona fide residence shall be duly proven by such
              petition to the satisfaction of the Court trying the cause. Provided no divorce shall
              be granted for any act committed while the parties were not residents of the State of
              Indiana, unless such act was also a good cause for divorce by the laws of the State
              where the same was committed."
            For the seventh section:
            "Divorces shall be decreed upon the application of the injured party only, for the
              following causes: First, adultery, except as hereinafter stated; second, impotency;
              third, abandonment for one year: fourth, cruel and inhuman treatment; fifth, habitual
              drunkenness of either party, or the failure of the husband to make reasonable
              provisions for his family; sixth, the conviction subsequent to the marriage, in any
              country, of either party of an infamous crime; provided, that no divorce shall be
              decreed except for the first and sixth cause above enumerated until after the
              expiration of three years from the date of the marriage of the parties."
            For the eleventh section:
            "If it shall appear by the affidavit of a disinterested person that the defendant has
              once been a resident of this State, but has become a non-resident, and by the
              affidavit of the petitioner, that the defendant's place of residence is unknown to
              such petitioner, the clerk, on the filing of said affidavit with the petition, shall
              give notice of the pendency of such petition by publication for three successive weeks
              in some weekly newspaper of general circulation, printed and published in such county;
              or if there be no such paper, then in the one printed and published in this State
              nearest to the county seat of such county, the last of which publication shall not be
              less than thirty days prior to the first day of the term of the court in which such
              petition is filed; and in all other cases the defendant shall be personally served
              with summons; and no divorce shall be granted without personal service, if it should
              be disclosed on trial that the defendant's place of residence was known to the
              plaintiff at the time of the filing of the petition, or had since become known."
            On motion, by Mr. BIGGS, the bill was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
          
          
            TWELFTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
            The engrossed bill [S. 145], for an act fixing the time of holding Courts in the
              Twelfth Judicial Circuit. [The circuit embraces the counties of White, Newton, Jasper,
              Benton, and Tippecanoe. The term in the latter county to continue as long as the
              business may require,] being read the first time by the Clerk--
            On the motion of reference--
            The SPEAKER. It will be referred to a Special Committee of one from each of the
              counties in the district: Messrs. Davidson, Wimer, and Washburn.
          
          
            EIGHTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
            The engrossed bill [S. 136], for an to fix the times of holding Circuit Court in the
              Eighth Judicial Circuit, [The circuit embraces the counties of Fountain, Montgomery,
              Boone, Clinton, and Warren,] having been read the first time by the Clerk.
            On the motion for reference
            The SPEAKER. This bill will also be referred to a special committee of one from each
              of the counties interested, and I will be obliged to the gentleman from Clinton to
              suggest them.
            The committee was announced, namely: Messrs. Caldwell, Rhodes, Copner, Canningham,
              Duvol and Gordon, of Boone.
          
          
            HYDRAULIC COMPANY CONSOLIDATION.
            The engrossed bill [S. 163] for an act to authorize the consolidation of hydraulic
              companies, was read the first time by the clerk
            On the motion to refer the bill to the Committee on
              Corporations--
            Mr. GOBLE said it is merely a local matter having reference to the hydraulic
              consolidation in the White water valley.
            It was referred to the Committee on Corporations.
          
          
            THE SO-CALLED FIFTEENTH AMENDMENT.
            The joint resolution [S. 7] concerning the so-called 15th amendment to the
              Constitution of the United States, and its pretended ratification, and proposing a
              convention of the States to amend the Constitution of the  United States (heretofore printed in these reports) was
              read through by the clerk.
            Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I move that these resolutions be indefinitely postponed.
            Mr. BROWNING. Mr. Speaker, I move that they be referred to the Committee on
                Federal Relations.
            Mr. McDONALD. I second the motion of the gentleman from Brown, [Mr. Browning.]
            VOICE--"That's it."
            Mr. WILSON. Mr. Speaker, that motion cannot be made to take precedence of the
              privileged motion to indefinitely postpone.
            VOICES--"That's so."
            Mr. McDONALD. We will settle that question.
            Mr. WILSON. That is what we want.
            The SPEAKER. The question is on the motion to indefinitely postpone the
              resolution.
            Mr. COX. Mr. Speaker, I demand a call of the House.
            The SPEAKER. The question is on the motion, to indefinitely postpone.
            VOICES--"No," "yes."
            Mr. HAWLEY. Mr. Speaker, I understand the other question has precedence under the
              rule.
            VOICES--"That's right;" "no, no."
            Mr. McDONALD. Mr. Speaker, I claim that a motion to refer to a standing committee has
              precedence over a motion to indefinitely postpone.
            VOICES--"That's it;" "no, no."
            The SPEAKER. We will see what the rule says.
            The rule reads as follows: "When a question is under debate no motion shall be
              received but to adjourn, to lie on the table, for the previous question, to postpone
              to a day certain, to commit, or amend, to postpone indefinitely, which several motions
              shall have precedence in the order in which they are arranged."
            Mr. BROWNING. Then the motion to commit the resolution to the Commttee on
                Federal Relations has the precedence.
            The SPEAKER. I am inclined to think that the point made by the gentleman from Whitley
              is right. The question is on the motion to commit to the Committee on Federal
                Relations.
            Mr WILSON and others. "Yeas and nays, Mr. Speaker," "yeas and nays," "ayes and
              noes."
            The SPEAKER. The Clerk will call the roll.
            Mr. WILSON. Mr. Speaker: I move the previous question, on the motion to commit, then
              we will get at the motion to indefinitely postpone.
            The SPEAKER. As many as are of the opinion that the demand for the previous question
              shall be seconded say "aye;" as many as are of the contrary opinion say "no." The
              previous question is seconded.
            The clerk will call the roll on the motion to refer the resolutions to the
                Committee on Federal Relations.
            The yeas and nays being taken, resulted as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs Abbett, Britton, Browning, Bruner, Caldwell, Cauthorn, Copner,
                    Cox, Cunningham, Devol, Donham, Galletine, Gentry, Goble Gordon of Cass Haynes,
                    Henderson, Hynes, McDonald, McGowan, Minnick. Miles, Mitchell, Montgomery,
                    Oakley, Shutt, Stanley, Tarlton, Zenor, and Mr. Speaker--30.
                  NAYS--Messrs Beeler, Biggs, Butterworth, Calkins of Fulton, Defrees, Deputy,
                    Heilman, Hill, Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Knight, Lines, Major, Martin
                    of Putnam, Netherton, Sabin, Sayers, Snodgrass, Stephenson, Stone, Strickland,
                    Taylor, Washburn, White, Wilson, Wood, Woodward and Wymer--30.
                
              
            
            When the Clerk came to the name of Mr. Neff there was no response, and
              thereupon--
            Mr. WILSON said: Mr. Speaker, the gentleman from Putnam (Mr. Neff) is in the Hall,
              and I desire that his name be called again. He was in the House when his name was
              called. If he wants to go to Congress he must vote right here. [Laughter.]
            The roll call having been completed,
            Mr. BROWNING said: Mr. Speaker, I ask that the absentees be called.
            Mr. WILSON. I ask if the Senator from Randolph is recorded as voting?
            A voice--"Yes, sir."
            Mr. BROWNING. Mr. Speaker, I move that the doors be closed end the absentees be sent
              for.
            Mr. WILSON. I ask if Mr. Neff's name is recorded ? He was in the Hall at the time his
              name was called. I think he has laid himself liable to the censure of the House.
            The SPEAKER. The vote is lost for war of a quorum. The motion of the gentleman from
              Brown (Mr. Browning) is in order that the doors be closed and the absentees sent for.
              I announced from the chair yesterday that I hoped no member would attempt to force any
              matter through to day, which is considered an important matter, owing to the large
              number of gentlemen absent, but if it is insisted on getting a quorum, in order to act
              on important matters, we will go through with it.
            Mr. WILSON. Mr. Speaker, nothing is in order except the sending for absentees. The
              doors should be closed, and the Doorkeeper see to it that the doors be closed, and the
              absentees reported to the bar of the House.
            Mr. McDONALD. Mr. Speaker, I desire nothing unfair in this matter. As far as I am
              concerned, I believe in going on the way we have been. I am opposed to putting any
              important matter through in the absence of one party; but I never shirk. In all then
              matters I propose--
            Mr. CAUTHORN. Mr. Speaker, I rise to a point of order.
            Mr. SPEAKER. The motion of the gentleman from Brown is in order,that the doors be
              closed and the Doorkeeper be instructed to bring in the absentees.
            Mr. WILSON. As far as I have heard an expression by the minority here, this
              proceeding was brought upon us unawares, and we had to act as our consiences
              dictated.
            Mr. SPEAKER. I suppose every gentleman who has a bill which he desires to pan will
              act on the dictates of his conscience.
            Mr. McDONALD. I had no understand-  ing that
              this matter was to be brought up. I understand that it comes up in its regular
              order.
            The SPEAKER. The gentleman is not in order, Let the absentees be sent for.
            Mr. MARTIN of Putnam. Mr. Speaker, I think it is not in order to send for absentees
              until there is a call of the House. The first proceeding is to move a call of the
              House, and after a call of the House is had, it will be in order for some member to
              move that the doors be closed, and the absentees sent for.
            The SPEAKER. Anything that shows there is no quorum here, I suppose is sufficient to
              act upon. But as sometime has elapsed since the roll call, does the gentleman move a
              call of the House?
            Mr. MARTIN. I do not.
            Mr. DEFREES. Mr. Speaker, has the motion of the gentleman from Brown, [Mr. Browning]
              been carried?
            The SPEAKER. Yes, sir. Mr. COX. Mr. Speaker, I move a call of the House.
            Mr. MILES. Mr. Speaker, I see the gentleman from Putnam [Mr. Neff] here, I move that
              his name be called.
            The SPEAKER. Too late.
            Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I would like to know the number present.
            The SPEAKER. Sixty-one, I think.
            Mr. BIGGS. There is no necessity for a call of the House then, I think.
            Mr. COX, Mr. Speaker, It seems to me we have to have a regular call of the House if
              we are going to send for absentees.
            The SPEAKER. A call of the House is in order at any time.
            Mr. CAUTHORN. Mr. Speaker, I see gentlemen standing up all over the Hall; and if it
              is in order for members to be on their feet ill the time, I would like to see the
              chairs removed. Let us conduct ourselves as an organised body, and not as a mob. I am
              willing to take up any measure that comes up in order, and shall vote with the
              minority to take it up and pass it, and let those members who are not here be
              responsible. If the minority here want to postpone this resolution indefinitely, and
              have the votes to do so, let them do it, and these gentlemen going off without leave
              and neglecting their duty--let them take the consequences.
            Mr. BROWNING. Mr. Speaker, I thought this morning--
            The SPEAKER, (interrupting,) A call of the House is in order--the Clerk will proceed
              with the call.
            The clerk commenced to execute this order but was interrupted by--
            Mr. WILSON, who said: Mr. Speaker, I desire to enter my protest against this
              proceeding--it is not in order while the order is out to send for absentees, to make a
              call of the House.
            The SPEAKER. Let the protest of the gentleman be entered--the clerk will proceed.
            The call of the House was continued, and having been completed, discovered but 65
              members present and answering to their names.
            The Clerk reported that those present and answering to their names were:
            
              
                
                  Messrs. Abbett, Beeler. Biggs,Britton, Browning, Bruner, Butterworth, Caldwell,
                    Calkins, of Fulton, Cauthorn, Copner, Cox, Cunningham, Defrees, Deputy, Devol,
                    Donham, Galletine, Gentry, Goble, Gordon, of Cass Haynes, Heilman, Henderson.
                    Hill, Hooker, Hynes, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Knight, Major, Martin of
                    Putnam, McDonald, McGowan, Minich, Miles, Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff, Netherton,
                    Oakley, Sabin, Sansberry, Sayers, Shutt, Snodgrass, Stanley, Stephenson, Stone,
                    Strickland, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Taylor, Tebbs, Washburn, White, Wilson, Wood,
                    Woodward, Wymer, Zenor and Mr. Speaker--65.
                
              
            
            The SPEAKER. The call of the House shows that there is not a quorum present. I will
              state that the reason why I thought it proper to call the House, notwithstanding the
              absentees are ordered to be sent for, was that, if we had a quorum, we could proceed
              with business, and not be compelled to wait till the absentees come in.
            Mr. ---------. I move that we dispense with a further call of the House.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH. Mr. Speaker, I wish to state, as an excuse for Mr. St. John, that he
              is attending the sick bed of a relative.
            Mr. DEVOL. Mr. Speaker, I desire to ask leave of absence for Mr. Lines, who wants to
              go away on the cars, which leave in about fifteen minutes. He is called away on
              account of sickness.
            The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Henry [Mr. Lines] has been regularly in his place,
              and ought to be excused.
            VOICES. "Consent," "consent."
            Mr. McDONALD. Mr. Speaker, I move that the names of those not excused be called.
            Mr. WOOD. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Hartley was called away last night, about three o'clock,
              and he told me to report to the Speaker of the House that he could not attend.
              Sickness, or something about his family, called him away, and this accounts for his
              absence. And I understand that Mr. Shoenmann, of Laporte county, got a dispatch last
              evening that some of his family were sick, and he had to return home. That is the
              reason of his absence.
            Mr. TEBBS. Mr. Speaker, I move to adjourn--
            The SPEAKER, Mr. Rice, Mr. Ruddell, and Mr. Simpson seem to have no leave of
              absense.
            Mr. BROWNING. Would they make a quorum?
            The SPEAKER. I think there would be just a quorum here if these gentlemen were
              present.
            Mr. BROWNING. I saw these gentlemen here with my own eyes, and the probability is
              that they left on purpose to dodge this question. A man is unfit to represent the
              people unless he is willing to face the music.
            VOICES. "Good," "good;" "that's right."
            Mr. CAUTHORN. Mr. Speaker, it was understood yesterday that no matter of any
              importance was to be pressed on the House 
              to-day. I don't complain about this resolution coming up. It was made the special
              order for to-day, and we ought to be here to meet it. [Voice.--"No it wasn't."]
              Whether it was or not, we ought to be prepared for it; and I am glad this matter is
              brought before the House. Perhaps some of us have been taken by surprise to-day. I
              would now notify gentlemen that the Senate yesterday has learned us something that
              there is such a thing as the previous question, and it should be applied in the House
              more than heretofore. ["Consent,"] There has been too much discussion here, and the
              House should be brought to a direct vote by the previous question hereafter. [A VOICE. That's what it's for.] And I shall not vote in the future to
              excuse any man from attendance here except on account of sickness.
            Mr. MARTIN of Putnam. I would like for the gentleman from Knox to inform the House
              who forced this thing on the House? I, for one, am willing the matter should lie on
              the table, but I understand it came up in regular order and forced itself upon the
              consideration of the House.
            VOICES--"That's right."
            The SPEAKER. My understanding of the matter is that after Senate joint resolutions
              are read here they lie on the table and come up under the 4th or 5th order of
              business: "Messages from the Senate; bills or resolutions of the Senate on their first
              reading." But a motion to commit is in order at any time, and that was the motion put
              to the House and voted on.
            Mr. STONE. Mr. Speaker, I understand that Mr. Ruddell left the city last night, and
              if we are to rely for a quorum on his being here we might as well adjourn at once. I
              would like the record to show who are absent without, leave.
            Mr. McDONALD, I join in the request of the gentleman from Randolph, [Mr. Stone.]
            Mr. WILSON. Mr. Speaker, I ask if the absentees have been sent for. It has got to be
              done over the signature of the Speaker, attested by the Clerk, and pat into the hands
              of the Doorkeeper.
            The SPEAKER. That has not been done.
            Mr. WILSON That is the order of the body, sir. I understood that motion to be made
              and agreed to by the House. It is the only way we can get the absentees in.
            VOICES--"Bring them in." "Let's settle this question."
            Mr. BROWNING. I will insist upon it--
            The SPEAKER, (interrupting). Gentlemen need not insist upon it; it has been ordered
              by the House. Just be peaceable and we will have these men sent for; but I think it
              child's play, after we are informed that men are out of the city, for us to say that
              we will sit here till we get a quorum.
            Mr. BROWNING. I was going to say that I'd insist on having the order carried out had
              I not learned that one or two of the gentlemen absent without leave are out of the
              city, but the chair took it out of my mouth. [Laughter.]
            The SPEAKER. I beg pardon, sir.
            Mr. TEBBS. Mr. Speaker, I insist on my motion to adjourn.
            The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Dearborn, [Mr. Tebbs,] moves to adjourn. As many as
              are of opinion that the House do now adjourn says "aye, [after the affirmative vote
              was expressed,] as many as are of the contrary opinion say "no."
            Mr. WILSON and others. "Yeas and nays, Mr. Speaker, "ayes and nays."
            Mr. SPEAKER. Let the yeas and nays to called.
            Mr. CAUTHORN. Mr. Speaker, I think it not in order to call the yeas and nays on a
              motion to adjourn. There is no quorum here and we can not make any record.
            A voice. "Read the Constitution."
            Mr. DEVOL. If there were but ten members present those ten members could adjourn from
              day to day, and take such steps as they saw fit, to compel the attendance of a quorum.
              We can adjourn till Monday morning and make any rule we see fit to bring in a
              quorum--there is no question about that.
            Mr. SANSBERRY. Mr. Speaker, I make a question of order. I would like to know how that
              gentleman got into that part of the House. [Laughter.]
            Mr. TEBBS. Mr. Speaker, I would inquire whether my motion to adjourn was not put to
              the House and carried?
            VOICES.--"Yes," "yes."
            The SPEAKER, I believe I put one side of it.
            VOICES.--"We demanded the yeas and nays."
            Mr. TEBBS. In requires ten to demand the yeas and nays on a motion to adjourn.
            Mr. WILSON. Whenever the Speaker calls for them he will find ten calling for the yeas
              and nays.
            Mr. CAUTHORN. Mr. Speaker, a gentleman has called my attention to the Constitution
              and I don't think it applies.
            The SPEAKER. Read it.
            Mr. CAUTHORN. Section 11 of Article IV. reads as follows: "Two-thirds of each house
              shall constitute a quorum to do business; but a smaller number may meet and adjourn
              from day to day and compel the attendance of members."
            Mr. WISON. The point it: a smaller number may meet from day to day and adjourn; but
              there is an incident to the motion to adjourn. What is it? Why a call for the yeas and
              nays,and any ten members may demand them.
            Mr. COX. But the call for the yeas and nays was not seconded by the requisite number
              before the question was put.
            Mr. WILSON, I acknowledge that, but I can move for a call of the yeas and nays after
              the negative is taken and before the result of the vote is announced.
            The SPEAKER. I am inclined to think that is a little too late.
            Mr. CAUTHORN. Mr. Speaker, the yeas and nays can not be taken when there is no quorum
              present. All we can do without a quorum is to meet from day to day and adjourn. We can
              make no record. The yeas  and nays are a record
              and we can't make it.
            Mr. MARTIN of Putnam. I would enquire of the gentleman from Knox [Mr. Cauthorn] if
              the House were to adjourn would not that be making a record? Upon any question before
              the House, whether there is a quorum or not, it is in order to call the yeas and
              nays.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Mr. Speaker, I would like to hear the decision of the chair on the
              motion already put.
            The SPEAKER. I want to hear the gentleman on on this question of calling the yeas and
              nays when there is no quorum present.
            Mr. ZENOR. Mr. Speaker, I want to say word, if the House will consent.
            Mr. WILSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of order. A motion to adjourn is not
              debatable.
            The SPEAKER. Those opposed to adjourning will say "no." The ayes have it. [Laughter
              and confusion ]
            Mr. WILSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise to a point of order. Before that motion was put there
              was a demand for the yeas and nays.
            The SPEAKER. The yeas and nays are not in order when there is no quorum.
            Mr. WILSON. I appeal from the decision of the Chair.
            The SPEAKER. The question is on the appeal.
            VOICES--The House is adjourned, and it was so announced by the
              Speaker.
            VOICES--"That's so." [Laughter.]
            The SPEAKER. It is a question of order, gentlemen.
            Mr. SABIN. I think we have no House to appeal to. [Laughter--"That's so."]
            The SPEAKER. The point of order taken by the gentleman from Steuben (Mr. Sabin) is
              well taken. There is no quorum to appeal to; there is no House. (Renewed laughter and
              confusion.)
            Mr. ABBETT. It is very apparent, I presume, to every gentleman that we all understand
              the principles of parliamentary law. I now move that we study that a little less, and
              self respect a little more. (Laughter and cries of "Consent," "consent.")
            The SPEAKER. I do not understand that there is any special occasion for stating that.
              I don't think gentlemen are particularly out of the rules of self respect. [Merriment
              and continued laughter.]
            A VOICE. Mr. Speaker, is the House adjourned?
            The SPEAKER. If there is any question of order I will hear it, otherwise the House is
              adjourned till two o'clock Monday morning. ]Laughter and cheers.]
            Mr. WILSON and others. Till two o'clock this afternoon, Mr. Speaker.
            The SPEAKER. Two o'clock this afternoon, then. The House is adjourned till two
              o'clock this afternoon. [Laughter and confusion.]
            And so came a recess till two-o'clock P. M.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed the Chair at 2 o'clock p. m.
            Mr. BIGGS. I rise to make an inquiry. It is this: Whether the adjournment this
              morning did not carry us over till to-morrow morning.
            The SPEAKER. That is also a question in the estimation of the Chair.
            Mr. BIGGS. In section 11, article 4 of the Constitution of the State we have this:
              "Two-thirds of each House shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller
              number may meet, adjourn from day to day, and compel the attendance of absent
              members." Now it strikes me, that if, with less than a quorum, we can only adjourn
              from day today, we could only have adjourned till tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock.
            VOICES. "That's Sunday."
            Mr. BIGGS. Then till the next Legislative day; if it be Sunday--we might feel better
              on Sunday morning than we did this morning. It seems to me that is the true
              construction. We take a recess at noon till 2 o'clock in the afternoon--that is not
              properly an adjournment. It does not go beyond the day. By a resolution of the House
              (which does not amount to a standing rule,) it is provided that our regular order of
              meeting shall be at 9 o'clock in the morning, and at 2 o'clock in the afternoon, but
              the constitutional provision is a different thing from a mere order of the House; and
              that I claim requires that the adjournment by less than a quorum, shall be from day to
              day. But as I see one of the gentlemen who were absent this morning (Mr. Ruddell)
              present, perhaps he may have something to say.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam. I agree with the gentleman from Kosciuako. [Mr. Biggs.] The
              time to which the House adjourns is fixed by resolution merely; and I think the
              gentleman's construction of the Constitution is correct--that all we could do was to
              adjourn till Monday morning.
            Mr. RUDDELL. Mr. Speaker, if there is a quorum present it seems to me--and there is
              no doubt of it in my mind--that we can do business this afternoon; and if in this I am
              sustained by the Chair, I shall move for a call of the House.
            Mr. SABIN. Mr. Speaker, was there not a call of the House pending when we adjourned?
              There certainly was; and we can't get rid of that till we have a quorum.
            The SPEAKER. If we have a rule which requires the House to adjourn till 2 o'clock in
              the afternoon, it would seem to the Chair that, with a quorum, we may do business.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam. I offered that resolution myself, and it says merely, that the
              daily meeting shall be at 9 o'clock A. M. until otherwise ordered. At the close of the
              morning session the proper motion is, not to adjourn, but that we take a recess till
              two o'clock.
            Mr. STONE. We are not met under the rules of the House.
            The SPEAKER. I am inclined to think that the adjournment carried us over till Monday
              morning.

            

            Mr. RUDDELL. Mr. Speaker--
            Mr. McDONALD interrupting. I rise to a point of order. The gentleman from Marion (Mr.
              Ruddell) is under arrest, and can not have the floor but by permission of the
              House.
            Mr. RUDDELL continuing. If I have been under arrest, I am also released. But I
              believe I have not been arrested. There have been no legal proceedings by which I
              could be arrested. I think, sir, that I am in order. I think that we may proceed under
              the call, determine a quorum and do business. It seems to me, notwithstanding the idea
              of the gentleman from Randolph (Mr. Stone) that we are under the rules of the
              House.
            The SPEAKER. The chair is of the opinion that the adjournment carries the House over
              till Monday morning 9 o'clock. I therefore hold that the House was adjourned.
            So the adjournment of the House this morning was determined to be Till Monday morning
              9 o'clock.
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            MONDAY, February 6, 1871.
          
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR took the Chair and commanded order--at 2 o'clock P. M.
          Chaplain service by J. M. Crawford, pastor of one of the city Methodist churches.
          The Secretary's minutes of Friday's proceedings were partially read.
          
            CORRECTION.
            Mr. WADGE. Mr. President, I rise to a privilege question. I see by the report of the
              Senate proceedings of Friday, there is printed the following: "Mr. Wadge moved for a
              dispensation of the Constitutional restriction that the bill, [S. 173,] authorizing
              aid to railroads by counties and townships, may be read by its title for the purpose
              of reference to a committee." The motion was to suspend the rules that House bill
              number 23 might be taken up and passed to the second reading and referred to a
              committee. It is a bill relating to the repeal of the swamp land bill of 1869.
          
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. BRADLEY presented two petitions on the subject of the drainage law, in the
              following words:
            
              To the General Assembly of the State of Indiana:
            
            The petition of the undersigned citizens of Laporte county, State of Indiana, would
              respectfully represent:
            That, at the last preceding session of the General Assembly there was enacted a law
              entitled "An act to authorise and encourage the construction of levees, dykes and
              drains and the reclamation of wet and overflowed lands by incorporated companies, and
              to repeal all former laws relating to the same subject." That they are informed and
              believe that the passage of said act was obtained by and for the benefit of the
              interest of one corporation, which pretended to be organized in the northwestern part
              of the State, and was so procured without the knowledge or petition of those citizens
              most directly interested in the wet lands of the State.
            That said law is unjust and oppressive in this, that without the necessary safeguard
              the property of the citizens is placed at the mercy of a corporation, unrestricted as
              to geographical limit, and without authorized plan or mode of procedure for the
              condemnation of private rights affected.
            The act makes no provision for giving the owners of lands to be affected notice of
              the appointment of appraiser, or any voice in their selection, nor for security to the
              owner for the expenditure of the monies raised by assessment, nor for the maintenance
              of the levees, dykes and drains should they ever be constructed. Believing that it is
              not the purpose of this General Assembly to enact laws not requested or required by
              their constituents or injurious to their interests, and believing that a less
              obnoxious law giving to the local communities in which they exist, the right or and
              power to cause the reclamation of wet and overflowed lands, can be enacted, therefore
              the undersigned would respectfully pray for the entire repeal of said act.
            Mr. STEELE presented three petitions on the subject of temperance from citizens of
              Grant county. They are worded like the following:
            
              To the Senate of the State of Indiana:
            
            We, the undersigned, citizens of Grant county, in the State of Indiana, respectfully
              ask at your hands the enactment of a law suppressing the traffic in intoxicating
              liquors as a beverage, declaring such traffic criminal, with suitable provisions for
              the conviction and punishment of the offender.
            Mr. TAYLOR presented two petitions on the same subject from citizens of Tippecanoe
              county.
            Mr. DWIGGINS presented a petition from citizens of White county on the same
              subject.
            Mr. ARMSTRONG presented a petition from citizens of Carroll county on the same
              subject.
            Mr. COLLETT presented a similar petition from citizens of Vermillion county.
            Also, a petition on the subject of prison reform, as follows:

            

            
              To the General Assembly of the State of Indiana:
            
            The undersinged citizens of the State respectfully ask that you will enact laws for
              the following objects:
            
              To create a Board of Supervisors (upon which there shall be at least
                three women) to inspect and watch over the condition of the prisons, reformatories
                and benevolent institutions belonging to the State, with power to suspend any
                officer or director upon recommendation of said Board. The members to serve without
                pay except necessary expenses.
              To pass a law for the improvement of county jails, whereby the inmates
                shall be required to work for their own support, and shall be supplied with
                sufficient food, light and air, and the younger shall be separated from the older
                and more hardened and male and female prisoners be kept entirely separate.
              To take the initiatory steps, at the present session, for the erection of
                an Intermediate State prison for younger and less hardened criminals, where proper
                reformatory measures can be used with a view to the abandonment of the
                Jeffersonville prison, which is wholly unfit for use, and the sending of older and
                hardened criminals to Michigan City.
            
            Also two petitions praying for amendment of the divorce laws, as follows:
            
              To the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Indiana:
            
            We, the undersigned, citizens of Vermillion county, respectfully petition your
              honorable bodies to repeal all the divorce laws of our State, except that which
              provides for a legal separation of husband and wife for the crime of adultery.
            
              To the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Indiana:
            
            The character of our divorce laws, and the the shameful corruption and fraud which
              have in many cases characterized their administration, have brought much odium upon
              our otherwise fair record as a State.
            Therefore, we, the undersigned, citizens of Vermillion county, respectfully petition
              your honorable bodies to repeal the most objectionable features of our divorce laws,
              and enact such amendments as will guard their administration, so as to prevent, as
              much as possible, corruption and fraud.
            These papers were severally referred to appropriate committees.
          
          
            TRUSTEES.
            Mr. CAVEN, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr. Bradley's
              bill [S: 53] for an act to authorize trustees to sell real estate and to invest the
              proceeds for the benefit of their c'est qui trust, with a favorable report
              thereon.
            Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President: If I may venture to do so, I will ask that the
              Constitational provision be suspended that this bill may be read the second and third
              times now and put upon its passage.
            Mr. DWIGGINS. Will the Senator explain ike provisions of the bill?
            Mr. BRADLEY. The title explains the bill. It is to enable Trustees to sell lands for
              the benefit of their trust's and to invest the money in other property.
          
          
            NO QUORUM.
            The yeas and nays being required by a constitutional provision, they were ordered and
              taken.
            Pending the roll call,
            When Mr. Dittemore's name was called,
            Mr. FULLER said. Mr. President, I ask leave of absence for Mr. Dittemore for the
              afternoon.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Is there any objection? The Chair hears none. He has leave
              of absence for this day.
            The Secretary having reported the vote sotto voce to the President
              of the Senate,
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. We lack two Senators of a quorum. We will have to call the
              Senate now.
            A SENATOR. If there is no quorum present, I move that we adjourn.
            VOICES--"No," "no," "yes."
            Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President, I move a call of the House.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR, As there is no quorum present, that will have to be done,
              without a motion.
            A call of the Senate was ordered and taken.
            The following members responded to their names:
            
              
                
                  Messrs. Andrews, Armstrong, Beadsley, Beeson, Bradley, Bird, Carnahan, Case,
                    Cave, Caven, Collett, Denbo, Dwiggins, Elliott, Frier, Green, Gregg, Hadley,
                    Henderson, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard, Johnston, Lasselle, Martindale, Robinson,
                    Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wadge and Williams--31.
                
              
            
            Mr. DWIGGINS. Mr. President, I move that all absent without leave be sent for.
            Mr. BRADLEY. I will inquire how many have answered to their names.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Secretary is figuring it up. I think there are 32.
            The Secretary having reported the number to the President--
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR said 31 have answered.
            The Senator from Miami coming into the Chamber the Secretary reported the number as
              32.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Yes, I thought there were 32 present. The Secretary will
              call over the absentees.
            The name of Mr. Aleop being first called--
            Mr. WILLIAMS said. I think Mr. Alsop is excused; if he is not I will make the
              motion.
            Mr. DWIGGINS. I will inquire whether he is in the city?
            VOICES--"No." "No."
            The PRESIDENT. If there is no objection he will be excused. The Chair hears none.
            The Secretary coming to Mr. Dougherty's name--
            The LIEUT. GOV. said. Where is Mr. Dougherty?
            Mr. BIRD. He was excused on Friday till Tuesday.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Yes, I guess that is so.

            

            The name of Mr. Francisco was called.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR [to theDoorkeeper]: Mr. Cookerley, see if you can'tget Mr.
              Francisco. He was here a few minutes ago.
            Mr. Glessner's name being called--
            Mr. HENDERSON. Mr. President, I ask leave of absence for Mr. Glessner.
            Mr. MARTINDALE. I ask if he is not in the city?
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. He is not in the city, I presume.
            The Chair hears no objection.
            The Secretary called "Mr. Gray."
            Mr. TAPOR Mr. Gray is not in the city.
            Mr. MARTINDALE. Mr. President, I ask leave of absence for Mr. Gray.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Is there any objection?
            The Secretary called "Mr. Kigwin."
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. He is in city. Mr. Doorkeeper send for Mr. Keigwin.
            The Secretary called "Mr. Rosebaugh."
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Mr. Rosebaugh, also Mr. Doorkeeper.
            The Secretary called "Mr. Wood."
            Mr. DWIGGINS. Mr. President, Mr. Wood has a leave of absence till to-morrow, I
              believe.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I believe so.
            A VOICE. "Mr. President, I have not heard Mr. Burson called,"
              [laughter.]
            Mr. DENBO. Mr. President have we a quorum?
            The LIEUTENANT GOVENROR. We have no quorum yet.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. President, I presume it is in order to move to dispense with
              further proceedings under the call, and after that is done I will move to adjourn.
            Mr. HOOPER. Mr. President, it occurs to me that it looks a little like trifling with
              this matter. We are now sending for absentees; we are now proceeding under that order,
              and it is manifest that we have a quorum in the city; I think there was a quorum in
              the Senate chamber not half an hour ago. Now is it to be that a quorum shall be broken
              here at the pleasure, at the mere option of a few Senators? I think that practice
              should not be tolerated. I should like to see whether we can get a quorum when we
              desire it or whether if a few see fit to break a quorum they can do so with
              impunity.
            Mr. DWIGGINS. Mr. President, I move to lay the motion to dispense with further
              proceedings under the call on the table.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. l ask for the yeas and nays on that motion.
            VOICE--"Yeas and nays."
            The yeas and nays were ordered and taken.
            Pending the roll call--
            Mr. WILLIAMS said: Mr. President, I rise to a point of order. The Senator's [Mr.
              Dwiggins] motion can not entertained till we have a quorum.
            Mr. DWIGGINS. If that point is sustained, it will hold as good against the motion of
              the Senator from Knox [Mr. Williams.]
            Mr. WILLIAMS. It might have if the question had been raised at the time.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I have not sent formally for the absentees. I have simply
              requested the Doorkeeper to bring them in.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. I know that. The point is, the only question would be to dispense with
              further proceedings under the call. I made that motion and the gentleman over the way
              moved to lay that motion on the table. It is evident that we have no quorum here,
              consequently there can be nothing done except to dispense with further proceeding
              under the call, and to adjourn.
            Mr. JOHNSTON. Mr. President, all that can be done is to adjourn from day to day and
              get a quorum.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. We cannot dispense with further proceedings under the call until
              a quorum appears.
            Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President, as this question rose on my motion to suspend the rules,
              when I discovered we could not get the rules suspended I wished to stop right there;
              so I hope the motion will prevail, and we will dispense with further proceedings under
              the call, and do some other business.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I am not sure that it is competent to make a motion to lay a
              motion to dispense with further proceedings under the call on the table, but I think
              it is.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. If that motion be carried in the affirmative would the Chair decids
              that the motion to dispense with further proceedings under the call is laid on the
              table?
            The LT. GOVERNOR. Yes sir.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. I hope the Chair will not have to make that decision.
            The LT. GOVERNOR. I may be wrong, but will so decide.
            A SENATOR. "Mr. President, I move to adjourn."
            The LT. GOVERNOR. The motion is not in order.
            Mr. JOHNSTON. Not in order, do you say.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. We have enough motions pending now. We will not have so much
              discussion, while the vote is being called, at any rate.
            The Secretary proceeded with the roll call.
            Mr. WILLIAMS, when his name was called, said: "I will vote no ; but I am satisfied
              the chair is wrong."
            The call being completed--
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR announced the result; yeas 19, nays 13.
            So the motion to lay on the table the motion to dispense with further proceedings
              under the call was agreed to.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. This vote lays the motion of the Senator from Knox [Mr.
              Williams] on the table. I regard this as simply an effort on the part of the Senate to
              secure a quorum of the Senate. As I understand it, the Senate resorted to this method
              to get a quorum.

            

            Mr. BRADLEY. I would like to know how this will get a quorum?
            Mr. DWIGGINS. The result will be to send for the absentees. That is what we are at.
              The Senator from Knox (Mr. Williams) moved to dispense with further proceedings under
              the call. That is laid on the table, and now we can send for the absentees.
            Mr. BRADLEY. There is no quorum present.
            The LIEUTANANT GOVERNOR. Still there are some things less than a quorum can do. They
              can adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of absent members. And if they
              can do that I think they can lay on the table a motion to dispense with further
              proceedings under the call, but I am not clear about it.
            Mr. GREEN. Mr. President, I move that the absentees be sent for. I am sure there were
              other Senators in the chamber half an hour ago; and they are here in the city
              somewhere.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. President, I am now prepared to satisfy the Chair that it is wrong.
              I will read from Jefferson's Manual, section 3, on the subject of ''quorums:"
          
          
            QUORUM.
            "In general the Chair is not to be taken till a quorum for business is present;
              unless, after due waiting, such a quorum be despaired of, when the Chair may be taken,
              and the House adjourned. And whenever, during business, it is observed that a quorum
              is not present, any member may call for the house to be counted, and being found
              deficient, business is suspended." [2 Hats. 125, 126 ]
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. That is all true.
            Mr. HOOPER. Mr. President we have a provision in the Constitution which certainly
              controls this question. The Constitution provides, it is true, that two-thirds of each
              House is necessary to constitute a quorum, but it also provides that a smaller number
              may adjourn from day to-day and compel the attendance of absent members.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. Yes.
            Mr. HOOPER. Now sir, that provision of the Constitution without doubt, places in our
              hands all the power and means necessary to compel the attendance of absent
              members.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. No doubt of that.
            Mr. HOOPER. And undoubtedly the most effectual mode of procuring the attendance of
              absent members is to send for them. It certainly will not be contended for a moment
              that all we can do is simply to meet and adjourn from day to day, because the power is
              clearly placed in our hands to compel the attendance of absent members, and the mode
              of doing that is undoubtedly to send after them, as we are proposing to do. I think we
              have clearly the right to do that. If we simply were to meet and adjourn from day to
              day we never could get a quorum, for we could take no steps to compel the attendance
              of absent members.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. President, I am not contending against the argument of the
              gentleman. I stated when I made my motion that the object was to dispense with further
              proceedings under the call, in order that after that was done I might make a motion to
              adjourn, or we could sit here three or four hours and wait for the absentees to come
              in, as we pleased. My motion was made for the purpose of saving time--that we might
              come to an adjournment, so the committees could go to work.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I don't think parliamentary law read by the Senator from
              Knox [Mr. Williams] relieves the difficulty which seems to be in his mind. I had great
              doubts about the propriety of the motion to lay on the table, a motion to dispense
              with further proceedings under the call, but I am satisfied it is right.
            Mr. SCOTT. I want to ask the Senate from Knox a question.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. Certainly.
            Mr. SCOTT. Suppose there had been no motion to lay your motion on the table and there
              had been no quorum voting on it but a majority against it, what would have been the
              effect? The same as now?
            Mr. WILLIAMS. On the motion to dispense with further proceedings under the call, the
              chair would decide that the Senate had refused to dispense with it, but it is a
              question which necessarily comes up before we can even adjourn properly.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR--The Senator is entirely mistaken; we can adjourn at any time.
              The Senator is entirely mistaken; we do not have to dispense with further proceedings
              under the call in order to adjourn. The Senator from Tipton [Mr. Green] moves that the
              absentees be sent for. Those in favor of the motion will please say "aye," those of a
              contrary opinion say "no." It is so ordered. (Soto voce.) The
              Secretary will make out a warrant for me.
            A VOICE. Who are absent?
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. Messrs. Francisco, Rosebrugh, Keigwin and Brown.
            Mr. HENDERSON. The Senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown] is excused, being on the Burson
              investigating committee. That committee has leave of absence.
            Mr. MARTINDALE. I would inquire whether the Senator from Morgan [Mr.Henderson] is
              sure he is at work on that committee. The balance of the committee in here.
            Mr. HENDERSON. I presume he is.
            Mr. MARTINDALE. That is a violent presumption as the balance of the committee are
              here in the chamber. [Laughter.]
            Mr. STEELE. I am informed by a member of that committee that it was adjourned over
              till to-morrow, perhaps at two o'clock.
            Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President, I move to take from the table the motion of the Senator
              from Knox (Mr. Williams).
            Mr. MARTINDALE. The Senator from Jackson (Mr. Brown) has arrived. [Laughter.]
            Mr. BROWN. What is the fine, Mr. President?
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. Inasmuch as you are not under arrest, perhaps you will get off
              without any.

            

            Mr. BROWN. But I have been arrested, [Laughter.]
            Mr. MARTINDALE. Under the bolting bill the fine is $1,000.
            Mr. BROWN. I have got the money. (Laughter.)
            Mr. MARTINDALE. Mr. President: I move another call of the House. I think others have
              gone out.
            Mr. BROWN. Mr. President: I have a case in the Supreme Court, and as my client is
              looking for me there I would like to have leave of absence.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I would like to see it granted, but we have no quorum here
              to do it; there is no Senate here to grant leave of absence.
            Mr. BROWN (sotto voce.) Then I will leave anyhow. (Laughter.) I can put in a little
              time on the Burson case, as that is going on. (Renewed laughter ).
            Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President: I would inquire if I can make a report from the
                Committee on Phraseology and Arrangement of Bills?
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. There is no Senate here to receive a report from the
                Committee on Enrolled Bills.
            Mr. BRADLEY. But can't the report be made?
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. No, sir.
            Mr. BRADLEY. It is a privileged motion.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Not now.
            Mr. BRADLEY. And I want to get it off my hands.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. It would not go on the journal if you did, I will say to the
              Senator.
            Mr. STEELE, Mr. President, I desire to know whether any warrant has been issued or
              process sent out after the absentees.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Yes, sir, there has.
            Mr. GREEN. Mr. Burson is here; that makes 34.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Mr.Bradley is gone now.
            A SENATOR. "I move that the Senate adjourn."
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Those in favor of the motion say "aye;" contrary, "no." The
              nays seem to have it. The nays have it.
            Mr. MARTINDALE. Mr. President, I would inquire whether the record shows what Senators
              are absent without leave?
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Yes, sir.
            The Doorkeeper had a few words with the President.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The doorkeper reports that he can't find these men. What is
              the pleasure of the Senate?
            A SENATOR. Is it in order to make a motion to adjourn?
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNGR. It is in order to make a motion to adjourn at any time.A
              SENATOR. Then I move to adjourn.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Those in favor of the motion to adjourn say "aye," those of
              contrary opinion say "no." The nays seem to have it.
            Voices. "Division," "Division."
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. As many as are in favor of the motion to adjourn will please
              rise and stand till they are counted. (The clerk reported the number). Those opposed
              will please rise. The motion does not prevail.
            Mr. FULLER. Mr. President, I want to know what is to be done now?
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. The Doorkeeper asked for instructions, and I told him to go and
              find them for certain. [Laughter.] I have no doubt now but that he will get them.
              [Renewed laughter.]
            After a few minutes had elapsed--
            A SENATOR. I move that the Senate adjourn.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. As many as favor the motion to adjourn will say "aye." Those of
              a contrary opinion say "no." The ayes have it, and the Senate stands adjourned.
            VOICES--"Yeas and nays." "Ayes and noes," "The noes have it."
              [Laughter and confusion.]
            So the Senate adjourned till to-morrow morning at 10 o'clock.
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            MONDAY, February 6, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.
          On the motion of Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, in the temporary absence of the Speaker, Mr.
            Neff was called to the chair.
          The order of prayer by Elder Jameson.
          The SPEAKER pro tempore directed the Clerk to read the journal of
            Saturday.
          Mr. WILSON was understood to say that the reading of the journal could not be now in
            order, under the presumption that there is no quorum present. He moved a call of the
            House to determine the fact that there was no quorum present, and stated that thereupon
            it would be the duty of the Speaker to adjourn the House.
          Mr. ZENOR preferred a recess till two o'clock.
          Mr. BIGGS rose to a question of privilege. It is stated in the JOURNAL'S report of the
            proceedings of Saturday that the question was taken by yeas and nays on the motion for
            indefinite postponement of the Senate joint resolution No. 7; and that record shows the
            Democratic members in fever of the postponement and the Republican members opposed to
            it. Now, I do not know how my Democratic friends may feel upon finding themselves placed
            in that attitude. As for myself I must say that I would prefer to be recorded on the
            other side. The motion upon which that vote was taken was that of the gentleman from
            Brown (Mr. Browning) to refer the resolution to the Committee on Federal
              Relations.
          The SPEAKER pro tem, directed the clerk to call the roll; and stated
            that the roll call shows no quorum present.
          Mr. STONE understood that there is a motion to adjourn till to-morrow.
          Mr. WILSON (interposing). The House  should be now
            adjourned. It is adjourned already, by the fact of no quorum.
          Mr. STONE, continuing, preferred an informal recess till 2 o'clock, and so far as the
            journal is concerned,it might be made to show the House in session till ten o'clock,
            when we would probably have a quorum.
          Mr. WILSON. Let us keep to the rules, and not set aside atl parliamentary
            principles.
          Mr. ZENOR was understood to prefer the recess until two o'clock.
          Mr. CUNNINGHAM was in agreement with the gentleman from Marion. He showed from the
            rule, which he read, something of the tediousness of the formalities in which the House
            would be involved under the proceedings in a call of the House.
          The SPEAKER pro tem. The Chair understands from the gentleman from
            Randolph [Mr. Stone] that by common consent we might remain together, and that by half
            past ten o'clock there would be a quorum.
          Mr. BIGGS. I would prefer to close the doors and send for the absentees. No member has
            a right to be absent without leave. For if he have that right, legislation might be
            blocked in this manner during the entire session.
          Mr. ZENOR, hoped the motion to adjourn would not be insisted upon.
          Mr. WHITE was in favor of enforcing the rules against the absentees.
          Mr. WILSON. I must insist upon it that my motion be put. The Speaker has nothing to do
            but to adjourn the body whenever it is ascertained there is no quorum.
          Mr. BROWNING. I do think I can beg the gentleman from Marion out of that. Two years
            ago, when there was a Republican majority here, they did adjourn--take a recess--wtihout
            a quorum on several occasions. We will certainly have a quorum to-day, and I think it
            best, by all means, to take a recess until two o'clock.
          Mr. MARTIN of Putnam, According to any strict construction of parliamentary law, I
            suppose that less than a quorum has no right even to take a recess. My plan was that we
            should not have had any call of the House this morning, and then a quorum could have
            been presumed, and we could have taken a recess. But if in the early part of the session
            there was a resolution adopted making it an order to adjourn till two o'clock as well as
            nine o'clock, (as some gentleman around me say there was) then we might now take a
            recess. But it was my understanding that that resolution fixed the adjournment until
            nine o'clock A. M. I would like to have the journals examined as to that.
          Mr. WILSON again demanded the adjournment, and called the attention of the House to the
            rules, and read the rules which require it. He complained of the absence of members who
            desired to adjourn over Saturday till 2 o'clock, and stated that there were others who
            are present to-day and who desired to adjourn over because they foresaw this result.
            There is only one way to do business, and that is the right way. We should keep
            ourselves within the pale of right, or throw rules aside altogether.
          Mr. ZENOR suggested that we have precedents for authority to take a recess.
          Mr. BUTTERWORTH. If there is no precedent we can make one.
          The SPEAKER pro tem. From the disposition manifested the Chair
            perhaps can not do better than to put the motion to adjourn.
          The question was put and the negative voices prevailed.
          Mr. WILSON. Mr. Speaker, to whom can you put the motion to adjourn ? We have no
            House.
          Mr. BIGGS. I renew my motion that the doors be closed and the absentees sent for.
          Mr. WILSON. Mr. Speaker, is it possible that the House will put itself under that
            motion ? If you once put yourself under a call of the House there is no power on earth
            that can take you out, till you determine a quorum.
          Mr. BIGGS. That is just what I want.
          Mr. BROWNING. Then that may keep us here until to-morrow morning.
          The SPEAKER pro tem. Gentleman, I see that there is no disposition to
            do business. There is no quorum present, and I shall adjourn the House.
          So at 9:30 o'clock the House was adjourned under the rules till to-morow morning at 9
            o'clock.
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            TUESDAY, February 7, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A. M., the Lieutenant Governor in the Chair.
          Chaplain services by Rev. J. L. Bennett, of the Plymouth Congregational Church.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read and approved.
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. BRADLEY, from the Judiciary Committee, returned the bill, [S.
              55], to amend section 2 of the act relating to the redemption of real property, with a
              favorable report.
            Also the bill [S. 57], recommending that it lie on the table, inasmuch as its
              provisions are contained in a like bill heretofore favorably reported on.
            Mr. CAVEN, from the same Committee, returned the bill, [S. 96], to define the offense
              of bribery, with a similar report, for the same reason.
            Also the bill, [S. 10], defining bribery, with a similar report.
            Also, the bill [S. 110] to amend section 58 of the general city incorporation law of
              March 14,1867, recommending its passage.
            Also, the bill [S. 137] to provide for new trials in cases of prisoners convicted of
              felonious homicide, when the defense is insanity, recommending that it lie on the
              table.
            Also, petitions relating to a change in the divorce law, recommending that they lie
              on the table, because the Senate has passed a bill on this subject.
            Also, the communication from the Governor, transmitting papers concerning the holding
              of personal property by aliens, with a report that an act passed March 9, 1861,
              contains all the legislation asked for.
            Also, the bill [S. 99], in relation to holding real estate by aliens, with a similar
              report thereon, and recommending that the bill lie on the table.
            Mr. SCOTT, from the same Committee, returned the bill [S. 27], on the subject of
              appeals to the Supreme Court, with a favorable report.
            Also the bill S. 133, reporting it as defective in form and detail, and recommending
              that it lie on the table.
            Mr. BRADLEY, from the same committee,returning the bill [S. 139] to amend section 135
              of the descedent estates act, with, a favorable report.
            Also, the bill [S. 143] to amend section 311 of the civil practice act, with a
              favorable report.
            Also, the bill [S. 159] to amend section 26 of the general city incorporation law,
              recommending that it lie on the table.
            Mr. WILLIAMS, from the Committee on Finance, returned the bill [S.
              59] to fix the rate of interest--no greater than 7 per cent. on money, recommended its
              indefinite postponement.
            Also, the communication of Samuel A. Burbrick in relation to the Butler Bills,
              recommending that it lie on the table.
            Mr. GREENE, from the Committee on Corporations, returned the bill,
              [S. 117,] authorizing cities to sell real estate, recommending the passage of a
              substitute therefor.
            Mr. CARNAHAN, from the same committee, returned the bill, [S. 68,] to amend section
              69 of the city incorporation law, with a favorable report thereon.
            Mr. HUBBARD, from the same committee, returned the bill, [S. 157,] authorizing
              railroads to construct branch lines, &c., with a recommendation that it be
              referred to the Committee on Railroads.
            Mr. CAVE, from the Committee on Railroads, returned the bill, [S.
              151,] to legalize certain acts of gravel and plank road companies, with a favorable
              report.
            Mr. JOHNSTON, from the Committee on Agriculture, returned a
              petition asking that the game law of 1869 may be so amended as to make it unlawful to
              trap quails at any season of the year, recommending that it lie on the table.
            The bill [S. 138] to amend section 22 of the act concerning enclosures and
              trespassing animals, was returned from the committee with a recommendation that it
              pass.
            These unfavorable reports were concurred in--the others lie over under the rule for
              future action.
          
          
            TEMPERANCE.
            On motion of Mr. BEESON the order of business was suspended, and the Senate accepted
              of the invitation from the House of Representatives to attend in their hall, this
              evening, at half-past seven o'clock, to receive a temperance petition from the State
              Temperance Convention or Alliance.
            On motion by Mr. BROWN, Mr. Dwiggins  was placed
              on the committee on Temperance, as its chairman, to fill the place
              made vacant by the ousting of Mr. Saringhausen.
          
          
            AGENT OF STATE.
            Mr. MARTINDALE asked and obtained (by a vote of the Senate) consent to introduce a
              joint resolution postponing till Wednesday, February 22, at 2 o'clock p. m., the
              convention of the two Houses for the election of Agent of State.
            Mr. DWIGGINS offered a substitute declaring there is no necessity for the further
              continuance of the office of Agent of State, and postponing the proposed joint
              convention till 2 1/2 o'clock the same day, unless the office is sooner abolished.
            Mr. DWIGGINS demanded the previous question.
            Mr. BRADLEY pointed out an error in a statement made in the preamble, which was
              corrected by consent.
            The demand for the previous question was seconded by the Senate.
            Mr. MARTINDALE accepted the substitute.
            The resolution was then adopted.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR announced the special order for this hour being the bills S.
              3 and S. 4 on the subject of fees and salaries; but the printed copies not having been
              sent in--
            On motion of Mr. STEELE they were made the special order for to-morrow at 2 1/2
              o'clock in Committee of the Whole.
          
          
            21ST COMMON PLEAS DISTRICT.
            On motion by Mr. MILLER the bill [H. R. 177] defining what counties shall constitute
              the 2lst Common Pleas District--the counties of Fulton, Kosciusko and Wabash--was read
              the first time.
            Mr. MILLER moved to dispense with the constitutional restriction that the bill may be
              pressed to its passage.
            Mr. BROWN could see no necessity for this bill.
            Mr. MARTINDALE explained that it simply forms a new district of counties cut off by a
              bill heretofore passed the Senate.
            Mr. BROWN understood it makes two districts out of one, and will make a place for a
              new judge. He opposed such legislation.
            The motion [Mr. Miller's] was agreed to--yeas 34, nays 7--by a change of several
              votes with the understanding that the bill is to be read by title only and referred to
              the Committee on the Organization of Courts.
            It was so referred.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. HADLEY, from the Committee on Education, returned the bill [S.
              16] to amend section 3 of the act authorizing cities to sell bonds, &c.,with a
              recommendation that it lie on the table as a bill has been favorably reported on
              containing similar provisions.
            This report was concurred in.
            Mr. JOHNSTON, from the Committee on Agriculture, returned the bill
              [S. 46] to encourage the destruction of foxes and wild cats, with a favorable report
              thereon.
            It goes to the files.
            Also, a bill [S. 76] to amend section 2 of the game law, with an adverse
              recommendation--that it lie on the table.
            This report was concurred in.
            Mr. FRANCISCO presented a petition against legalizing unjust assessments by gravel
              roads.
            Also, a petition of 500 citizens of Jefferson county on the subject of
              temperance.
            They were referred.
            Mr. HUBBARD, from the special committee thereon, returned his bill [S.158] to amend
              section 17 of the act fixing the time of holding Common Pleas Courts, with
              amendments.
            It goes to the files.
          
          
            EMPLOYEES.
            Mr. DENBO, from a special committee on Employees, submitted an
              opinion that the pay of appointees of officers was not clearly denned in the bill, and
              asking instructions from the Senate.
            Mr. BROWN read the law governing the pay of employees, and was of the opinion that
              the language was clear enough.
            On motion by Mr. DENBO, the matter was referred to the Judiciary Committee.
          
          
            WOMEN REFORMATORY.
            Mr. MORGAN offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing the Secretary to print
              300 copies of the report of the officers of the Reformatory Institution for Women and
              Girls.
          
          
            IMMIGRATION.
            Mr. MARTINDALE submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the Commitee
                on Immigration, to whom was referred the joint resolution S. 5, report the
              same to the Senate by to-morrow 10 1/2 o'clock A. M.
          
          
            EMPLOYEES.
            Mr. CAVE offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the Committee on
                Employees report how many persons the committees have employed, what they
              are engaged in, and how many can be dispensed with.
          
          
            STANDING COMMITTEES.
            On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, Mr. Bird was appointed to fill the various places on the
              standing committees heretofore occupied by Mr. Saringhausen, except the Temperance
              Committee.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The following described bills were introduced, read the first time and passed to the
              second reading:
            By Mr. WILLIAMS [S. 183], to amend section 108 of the common school law of March 6,
              1865referring to fees for mortgages for loans of the school fund.
            By Mr. BEESON, a bill [S. 184] to give the right of action for injuries in certain
              cases- by reason of the intoxication of any person right of action to hold against
              those causing the intoxication of the party committing the injury.
            By Mr. WOOD, a bill [S.185] declaring the true intent and meaning of the act
              authorizing county and township aid to railroads, approved May 12, 1869.

            

            By Mr. GREGG, a bill [S. 186] to regulate the running of locomotives through
              incorporated towns.
            By Mr. BROWN, a bill [S. 187] to prescribe and regulate the service of process on
              railroads whose principal office is not within the State, repealing all conflicting
              laws, etc.
            By Mr. DWIGGINS, a bill [S. 188] defining certain felonies, prescribing punishment,
              etc.; persons feloniously cutting timber,or taking stone or other valuable articles,
              to be fined and imprisoned and disfranchised for any determinate length of time.
            By Mr. ARMSTRONG, (by request,) a bill [S. 189] title not read--concerning marriages
              of persons belonging to the Society of Friends--a license shall first be obtained.
            By Mr. MORGAN, a bill [S. 190] to create the ---- Judicial Circuit of the State of
              Indiana--Posey and Vanderburgh counties.
            By Mr. MARTINDALE, a bill [S. 191] relating to the construction of a new State House,
              and to acquire title to that part of square 48 not now owned by the State. The
              Governor, Secretary of State, M. L. Brett, of Daviess county, and T. J. Cason, of
              Boone county, to be constituted State House Commissioners; to vacate Market street and
              the alley running through said square; assessing a tax of five cents on the $100 for
              1871 and 1872, to be paid over to the said Commissioners, and they may borrow an
              amount equal to the price paid for said ground, and employ an architect, whose plans
              may be acted on by the next session of the General Assembly.
          
          
            CHANGES OF VENUE.
            On motion of Mr. GRAY, the bill [S. 35] to amend section 207 of the General Practice
              Act of June 18, 1852, was taken up and read the third time.
            Mr. STEELE explained the objects of the bill to be to amend the act which requires a
              change of venue in all civil cases in which affidavits are filed, giving the court no
              discretion in the application. He stated hardships imposed by the present law. There
              are a certain class of cases, and a large class, too, which come up in counties along
              the line of railroads, where a change of venue is asked in almost every case. If the
              suit be instituted for killing anything on the road, upon appealing the case from a
              justice's court, a change of venue is taken to some other county, and the plaintiff
              can not well afford to follow the case from county to county. He urged the passage of
              the bill.
            It passed the Senate by yeas 29, nays 7.
            Mr. BRADLEY explaining his negative vote:--because the amendment reported by a
              committee to this bill was rejected.
          
          
            ORDER OF BUSINESS.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved that the order for this afternoon be bills on the third
              reading.
            Mr. TAYLOR preferred the order of bills on the second reading.
            Mr. MARTINDALE was informed there were enough bills on the second reading to occupy
              the time for a day; and it would seem that the Senate will never reach the order of
              bills on the third reading.
            Mr. TAYLOR insisted that it could not take long to read their titles for the purpose
              of reference.
            The resolution was agreed to.
            And then came the recess for dinner.
            CORRECTION.--Mr. WOOD, in the proceedings on Friday afternoon, is represented as
              saying "some of the objections raised to this bill [S. 65] could be obviated by
              allowing women to hold separate property." This sentence should read: "Some of the
              objections raised to this bill are obviated by the law allowing women to hold separate
              property."
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at 2 o'clock P. M.
            Mr HOOPER, by leave, from the Committee on Finance, returned the
              resolution of inquiry concerning the collection of delinquent taxes, recommending that
              it lie on the table as farther legislation was unnecessary.
            The report was concurred in.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR announced the order for the afternoon to be bills on the
              third reading.
            
              SUPERIOR COURT.
              The bill [H. R. 58] to establish Superior Courts, coming up--
              On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE the vote ordering the bill engrossed was
                reconsidered.
              Mr. ANDREWS, at Mr. M.'s suggestion, moved to reconsider the vote adopting the
                amendment allowing a salary of $2,500 to each of the Judges, $500 to be paid by the
                State.
              Mr. MARTINDALE desired the vote reconsidered so as to enable him to move that
                one-third of the salary ($833 1/3) of each Judge shall be paid out of the State
                Treasury.
              Mr. BROWN opposed the motion to reconsider, inasmuch as it will but increase the
                liability of the State, which now pays the salary of a Circuit Court Judge for
                Marion county.
              Mr. MARTINDALE explained that Marion county has not an exclusive Circuit or Common
                Pleas Court Judge--both of these Judicial Districts include Hendricks county.
              The motion to reconsider was agreed to yeas 27, nays 11.
              Mr. MARTINDALE offered a substitute, as indicated above.
              Mr. BROWN made the point of order that the amendment is out of order--the Senate,
                having by a direct vote fixed the compensation and the manner of paying the
                same.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR decided that the amendment proposes to amend the House
                bill, and that the point of order is not well taken.
              The substitute was adopted by yeas 23, nays 16.
              This substitute was agreed to as an amendment to the bill by yeas 26, nays 13.
              The amendment was ordered engrossed.
              Mr. MARTINDALE made an ineffectual motion--yeas 28, nays 14--two-thirds not voting
                aye--for a dispensation of the consti- 
                tutional provision, that the bill may be read the third time now.
            
            
              CORONER'S JURIES.
              The bill [H. R. 2], to amend sections 4 and 6 of the act prescribing the powers and
                duties of Coroners--the jury to consist of six persons--coming up in order, it was
                read the third time.
              Mr. GREEN asked and obtained unanimous consent to strike out the amended sections
                set forth at length.
              The bill finally passed the Senate by yeas 38, nays 3.
            
            
              DEARBORN COMMON PLEAS.
              The bill [H. R. 11], fixing the beginning of Common Pleas Courts in the county of
                Dearborn in the Fifth Judicial District--the first Mondays of May and November,
                being read the third time--
              Mr. GREGG explained that this bill affected no other county and was a measure very
                much desired by the citizens thereof.
              The bill finally passed by yeas 42, nays 0.
            
            
              WIDOW'S $500.
              The bill [H. R. 10] to amend section 1 of the act to amend section 43 of the
                decedent estates act, approved July 17, 1852, approved February 19, 1869--the widow
                may take not exceeding $500, being read the third time--
              The bill passed by yeas 38, nays 4.
            
            
              HUNTER'S RIGHTS.
              The bill [S. 2] to prevent hunting or shooting within enclosures without consent of
                the owner thereof, was read the third time.
              Mr. JOHNSTON asked but failed to obtain consent to amend by inserting after the
                word "owner" the words "or occupant."
              Mr. HADLEY asked but failed to obtain consent to add these words: "Provided, that
                prosecutions under the provisions of this act shall be instituted only by those
                interested in enclosures entered upon."
              Mr. GLESSNER moved to recommit the bill with instructions to strike out all after
                the enacting clause and insert a substitute--exempting residents of the county,
                etc., penalty not to exceed twice the amount of damage done.
              Mr. JOHNSTON moved to lay the substitute on the table.
              The motion was agreed to, by yeas 27, nays 13.
              Mr. WILLIAMS regretted that the amendments proposed by Mr. Johnston and Mr. Hadley
                were not consented to.
              Mr. DWIGGINS moved to recommit the bill, with instructions to amend as suggested by
                the Senator from Montgomery (Mr. Johnston.)
              Mr. JOHNSTON was as sure as he stood here that this bill is demanded by tho people
                of the State.
              Mr. HADLEY moved to reconsider the vote by which this bill was ordered engrossed,
                in order that he might get in his amendment.
              Mr. DWIGGINS' constituents were anxious about this bill. He desired this bill
                should became a law, but was anxious to see it amended. Unless it were amended it
                could not pass the House.
              Mr. GLESSNER favored the motion to reconsider. The bill would not be acceptable to
                the people as it stands--it is a bill which says about one-half the people shall own
                all the game in the State--it is a copy as far as it goes of the old English law--it
                is an aristocratic law.
              Mr. BEESON was satisfied this motion ought nob to prevail, and was satisfied the
                Senate was of this opinion, so he moved to lay the motion on the table.
              The motion was agreed to.
              Mr. BEESON demanded the previous question.
              The demand was seconded by the Senate.
              The bill was passed by yeas 27, nays 14.
            
            
              AGENT OF STATE.
              Mr. ROSEBRUGH moved to suspend the order of business to enable him to offer a
                resolution that the Judiciary Committee be instructed to report
                immediately the bill, [S.---,] now in their hands, for the abolition of the office
                of Agent of State.
              The motion was agreed to by yeas 22, nays 20.
              Mr. BROWN moved to strike out the words "are instructed to report immediately," and
                insert in lieu, "are requested to report at their earliest convenience."
              This motion was rejected by yeas 19, nays 22.
              Mr. BEESON demanded the previous question.
              The demand was seconded by the Senate, The resolution was then adopted by yeas23,
                nays 17.
              Mr. HOOPER moved to suspend the order of business and take up the bill [H. R. 265]
                fixing the salary of Agent of State at $1,000. It occurred to him the State had
                probably better pay this sum than to hazard any question about these bonds.
              The motion to suspend the order of business was agreed to by yeas 29, nays 12.
              On motion by Mr. BROWN the bill [H.R. 265] amending the act fixing the salary of
                Agent of State was read the first time.
              Mr. WILLIAMS moved for a dispensation of the constitutional provision that the bill
                may be read the 2d and 3d times now and put upon its passage.
              The motion was rejected by yeas 27, nays 13.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The order of business is the report of the
                  Judiciary Committee on the Senate bill, abolishing the office
                of Agent of State.
              The bill [S. 137], was taken from the table and placed on the files.
              On motion, by Mr. MARTINDALE, the Senate proceeded to consider bills on the third
                reading.
              Mr. BRADLEY obtained time till to-morrow morning for the Judiciary Committee to
                report on the bill.
            
            
              COUNTY RECORDERS.
              The bill [S. 18], authorizing County Recorders to demand and receive fees for
                recording papers at the time they are presented for record; being read the third
                time--
              Mr. MARTINDALE asked and obtained  unanimous
                consent to add to the bill a provision making it the duty of the Recorder to deliver
                over to his successor in office all deeds and other recorded papers, whether the
                fees thereon are paid or not.
              The bill passed the Senate by yeas 39, nays 1.
            
            
              DITCHES AND DRAINS.
              The bill [S. 11] to amend section 9 of the drainage law, of March 11, 1867, being
                read the third time.
              The bill passed by yeas 38, nays 1.
            
            
              A RECESS.
              Mr. GRAY offered a resolution, which was adopted, that when the Senate adjourn, it
                adjourn till 7 1/2 o'clock this evening.
            
            
              PLANK AND GRAVEL ROADS.
              The bill [S. 69] authorizing plank, gravel McAdam roads to enter upon adjacent land
                and appropriate timber, earth, gravel or stone, was read the third time.
              Mr. HESS explained its provisions.
              The bill passed by yeas 27, nays 12.
            
            
              CHANGE OF VENUE
              On motion by Mr. SCOTT, the bill [H. R 268] to provide for changes of venue from
                Circuit Courts, and legalizing changes already granted, was read the first time.
              Mr. DENBO moved for a dispensation--that the bill may be passed to its final
                vote.
              Mr. SCOTT also desired the passage of the bill.
              The motion was agreed to by yeas 39; nays 0.
              Accordingly the bill was read the second and third times, and passed by yeas 39,
                nays 0.
              The Senate then took recess till 7 1/2 o'clock.
              There was no session after supper.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
          
            TUESDAY, February 7, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.
          The order of the reading of the journal of Saturday, by the Clerk, proceeded till--
          On motion of Mr. TEBBS, the further reading was dispensed with.
          
            THE BRIBERY BILL.
            Mr. CAUTHORN rose to a question of privilege, stating the history of the Bribery Bill
              [S. 21] in the Senate, and its provisions; that it has been awaiting the action of the
              House since the last day of January; that it has been inquired after by Senators
              anxious for the action of the House, and he moved for a suspension of the rules and
              restrictions so that the bill may be taken up and carried to the third reading and
              final passage.
            Mr. WILSON. That is a very good bill, and I am in favor it; but the unfinished
              business pending at the adjournment on Saturday is the first thing in order, and that
              is the call of the House.
            The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Marion is right.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF, the proceedings under the call of the House were dispensed
              with.
            The SPEAKER then entertained the motion of Mr. Cauthorn; and the rules and
              restrictions, being suspended by yeas 72, nays 8, the "Bribery Bill" [S. 21] was taken
              up, read the second time by title, and then read through and passed the final reading
              without amendment, in the House of Representatives--yeas 94, nays 0; and it was
              ordered that the Clerk acquaint the Senate thereof.
          
          
            STATE AGENT.
            Mr. McDONALD asked that the rules and restrictions be suspended, to enable him to
              offer a bill for a very important measure--it was to reduce the fees and stealings of
              the Agent of State from $6,000 to $1,000 per annum.
            Mr. WILSON, Mr. RUDDELL and Mr. RAWLES objected to the suspension for anything out of
              the regular order.
            Mr. STONE and Mr. BALLENGER preferred the suspension. Inasmuch as the Agent of State
              is to be elected to-morrow this bill ought to pass.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY and others preferred that the office of Agent of State should be
              abolished.
            The rules and restrictions were than suspended, by yeas 69, nays 16, and Mr. McDONALD
              introduced a bill, [H. R. 265], for an act to amend an act prescribing the duties and
              fixing the compensation of the Agent of State. (It provides that he shall receive an
              annual compensation of $1,000).
            Mr. MACK, (Mr. Sabin in the Chair), proposed to amend so as to fix the salary and
              expenses at $2,000.
            Mr. McDONALD moved to lay the amendment on the table.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY desired and gave notice of an amendment to the amendment that might fix
              the salary at $500 per annum.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, would support the amendment of Mr. Friedley. He was not in
              favor of any officer performing public service without compensation. But he was in
              favor of abolishing the office of Agent of State. The business of his office can be
              transacted by the State Auditor, or almost any other officer of State.
            The motion to lay the amendment on the table was rejected--yeas 18, nays 72; and the
              question recurred on the adoption of the amendment.
            Mr. McDONALD demanded the previous question thereon, and under its pressure the
              amendment was rejected--yeas 7, nays 85--Mr. Ballenger explaining his negative vote:
              The proposition of the gentleman from Whitly is perhaps the best thing we can get.
            Mr. McDONALD again demanded the previous question.
            Mr. CAUTHORN demanded the special order.
            Mr. BIGGS moved to refer the bill to the Committee on Federal
                Relations, with instructions to make the compensation $500, instead of
              $1,000.
            On motion of Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Mr. Biggs' motion was laid on the table.
            On motion of Mr. WILSON, the restrictions were further suspended--yeas 83, nays  12--and then the vote on the final passage of the
              bill resulted--yeas 81, nays 14--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Ballenger, Barnaby, Beeler, Browning,
                    Bruner, Butterworth, Caldwell, Calkins of Porter, Cauthorn, Conner, Copper, Cox,
                    Cunningham, Curtis, Deputy, Devol, Donham, Friedley, Furnas, Galletine, Gentry,
                    Goble, Gordon of Boone, Gordon of Cass, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Haynes,
                    Heilman, Henderson, Hendry, Hill, Hooker, Hynes, Kennedy, Kink, Kirkpatrick,
                    Lines, Major, Martin of Wayne, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Minick,
                    Miles, Millikan, Mitchell, Monroe, Montgomery, Myers, Neff, Oakley Ray, Rawles,
                    Rice, Sabin, Sayers, Simpson, Schoenemann, Shutt, Stanley, Stephens, Stephenson,
                    St. John, Stone, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Taylor, Tebbs, Washburn, Warrum, Wilson,
                    Wood, Woodard, Wymer, and Zenor--81.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Biggs, Calkins of Fulton, Defrees, Furnas,
                    Knight, Martin of Putnam, Netherton, Rhodes, Ruddell, Snodgrass, Strickland,
                    Walker, White, and Mr Speaker--14.
                
              
            
            Mr. FRIEDLY, explaining his vote, said: I was anxious to have this office abolished,
              but as it is apparent that we can't get that, nor the reduction to $500, I vote
              "aye."
            Mr. MARTIN of Putnam, explaining: I am in favor of abolishing the office of Agent of
              State; and believing that the passage of this bill will make it more difficult to
              accomplish that object, I shall vote against it. It is said that this agent is in the
              habit of stealing; but if you send the State Agent to New York on a salary of $1,000,
              you compel him to steal.
            Mr. NETHERTON: I desire to see this office abolished, believing it to be entirely
              uncalled for. Still, as this perhaps is the best we can get I vote aye.
            Mr. RUDDELL: I believe we have no no use for the Agent of State--that others can
              perform his duties. I am therefore in favor of abolishing the office; I shall vote no
              on this proposition.
            Mr. STONE: Early in the session, on the 9th of January, I introducnd a bill that the
              Governor and Senate appoint a temporary Agent if necessary. That bill was made the
              special order for to-day at 10 o'clock. A minority of the committee to whom it was
              referred reported a proposition for a reduction of the pay to $1,000, and believing
              that this bill is right, as I believe also that that report was right, I vote aye.
            Mr. WASHBURN: He understood that the stealing mentioned consists in the Agent
              availing himself of the use of the Government funds in his hands--the interest thereon
              for the time he holds them. Supposing this is the best we can now do, I shall vote
              aye.
            Mr. WHITE, explaining: if we can't constitutionally abolish this office, we should
              pay enough to enable the agent to live without stealing. I believe I will vote no on
              this question.
            Mr. MACK. I shall vote no upon this proposition for this reason; when the question
              comes before the House, as it will in a few days--whether we are ready to vote
              $600,000 to pay those 191 old internal improvement bonds--I believe that a majority
              will put their foot on it, and say these bonds shall be funded under the Butler Bill.
              I believe that $2,000 to be as little as the agent should have to discharge his duty.
              And when it comes to the question of the Governor's house, rent bill of $5,000, can we
              expect gentlemen to manifest a similar spirit? I think this office is necessary, and
              that $2,000 is little enough. I vote no.
            Mr. DAVIDSON said he had voted on this question with some hesitation, and upon
              reflection desired to change his vote. If we maintain this Agency, and I think we
              should--to pay but $1,000 is virtually an abrogation of it. I do not believe it can be
              maintained on that, and if we attempt to patch up the thing in that way we will place
              the Agency in such a shape as to bring us into trouble. On reflection, however much I
              may be in the minority, I desire to change and vote no.
            The vote was then announced as above, and so the bill passed the House of
              Representatives.
            Mr. NEFF asked, ineffectually, for unanimous consent to report on Mr. Ruddell's
              Sinking Fund bill [H. R. 204.]
          
          
            THE SO-CALLED FIFTEENTH AMENDMENT.
            Mr. WILSON and Mr. MITCHELL now demanded that the House recur to the consideration of
              the special order, to-wit: the Senate joint resolution No. 7, in relation to the
              so-called amendment, etc.--the question being on Mr. Browning's motion to refer the
              resolution to the Committee on Federal Relations, and it being
              under the force of the previous question--
            The SPEAKER ordered the vote to be token, which resulted--yeas 47; nays 43--as
              folllows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs Abbett, Barnaby, Britton, Browning, Bruner,
                    Caldwell, Cauthorn, Copner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Davidson, Devol, Galletine,
                    Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Boone, Gordon of Cass, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley,
                    Haynes, Henderson, Hynes, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, Minnick, Miles,
                    Montgomery, Neff, Oakley, Rice, Simpson, Shutt, Stanley, Stevens, Stone,
                    Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Tebbs, Walker, Warrum, Zenor, and Mr. Speaker--47
                  NAYS--Messrs. Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Butterworth, Calkins
                    of Fulton, Calkins or Porter, Conner, Defrees, Deputy, Donham, Friedley, Furnas,
                    Heilman, Hill, Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Knight, Lines, Martin of
                    Putnan, Millikan. Mitchell, Monroe, Myers, Netherton, Rawles, Rhodes, Ruddell,
                    Sabin, Sayers, Schoenemann, Snodgrass, Stephenson, St John, Strickland, Taylor,
                    Washburn, White, Williams, Wilson, Wood, Woodward and Wymer--43.
                
              
            
          
          
            SINKING FUND INVESTMENT.
            Mr. NEFF now obtained unanimous consent to submit his report from the
                Committee on Ways and Means, a majority thereof returning Mr.
              Ruddell's sinking fund investment bill [H. R. 204] with amendments, making the rate of
              interest 8 per cent., and the proportion of distribution according to the last census;
              and requiring the Auditor of State to notify the County Auditors of the amounts due
              them.
            Mr. NEFF also presented the report of a minority of the same committee, returning Mr.
              Ruddell's bill with an amendment by way of substitute, viz:
            A bill [H. R. 266] for an act to amend the  6th
              section of an act to provide for the custody and management of the notes, bonds and
              mortgages arising directly out of loans heretofore made by the Board of Sinking Fund
              Commissioners, etc.
            Mr. BROWNING moved that the report of the minority be concurred in.
            Mr. RUDDELL. It seems to me that the orignal bill for which this minority bill is
              offered for a substitute is every way preferable.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. Will the gentleman explain the difference between the two
              bills?
            Mr. RUDDELL. The original bill provides that the funds now in the hands of the State
              Auditor belonging to the School Fund, and such as may hereafter come into his bands,
              shall be loaned under the provisions of the act with all the safeguards and guarantees
              provided by the college fund law, which is acknowledged by all to be superior to any
              law we have for loaning our funds. The money to be loaned on real estate security--in
              amount not exceeding $1,000 to one man; and the real estate security shall be in
              double the amount loaned, and be valued according to the appraisements for taxation.
              And no real estate to be taken as security the title to which may be in dispute or in
              the hands of heir, executors, or administrators. It provides that the money shall be
              distributed to the counties in proportion to population as shown by the last United
              States census. It proposes that all the people shall be equally benefited by the
              distribution of this fund which is the proceeds of their own earning, for the benefit
              of their children. It provides that the State Auditors shall notify the auditors of
              the different counties that applications will be received from their counties for
              loans of their distributive share of this fund, by publication in the INDIANA STATE
              JOURNAL and Indiana State Sentinel. It then provides that these
              loans shall be effected within ninety days--the object being to secure the profits
              arising from the interest to the school fund immediately, for if it were all loaned
              the amount of interest would exceed a hundred dollars a day. It piovides that the
              citizens of each county shall borrow their shares by filing their claims; and if any
              county fail to make application within the prescribed time, that surplus shall be
              loaned on application from any part of the State. This bill will secure the prompt
              investment of all this fund.
            The substitute proposes to distribute the money outright immediately to the counties;
              and that County Auditors shall be responsible each for the investment of his counties
              distributive share--regardless of applications from the counties for loans. There may
              not be a sufficient number of borrowers to absorb the money in every county and that
              surplus may be idle. This substitute does not provide that in case the money
              distributed to any county is not borrowed within 90 days, or any other time, it shall
              be returned to the State Treasury and loaned in any other county; but such surplus
              will remain there uninvested and profitless to the school fund.
            When he had concluded--
            On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS the further consideration of he subject was postponed, and
              it was made the special order for tomorrow, 3 o'clock p. m.
          
          
            THE WILE SHOENEMANN CONTEST.
            Mr. McDONALD called for the special order, towit : the consideration of the report
              from the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on
                Elections--the question being on the adoption of Mr. Cauthorn's
              resolutions, declaring that Mr. Shonemann's seat is vacant and authorizing the clerk
              to acquaint the Governor.
            Mr. McDONALD, deprecating debate, declared that this is not a question as to victims.
              The House did not want a victim in the person of Mr. Schoenemann, it was a question of
              fact and of constitutional law as to whether he is entitled to a seat here. He made
              the points of fact and of law here and in committee--that Mr. Schoenemann was holding
              and receiving the benefits of the office of Deputy Postmaster at the time he was sworn
              in--that he was laboring under a disability and could not be made a member of the
              House by law. He then read from the laws of the United States concerning the duties
              and responsibilities of Postmasters, declining to go farther into the argument. He
              demanded the previous question on the resolutions of Mr. Cauthorn.
            Mr. RUDDELL. Does the gentleman from Laporte (Mr. Shoenemann) now labor on the
              alledged disability?
            Mr. McDONALD. Yes.
            Messrs. FRIEDLEY, COPNER and WILSON deprecated the demand for the previous question,
              and there being no second--
            Mr. ST. JOHN followed in a prepared speech, which is crowded out in this place,
              coming to the following conclusions: First. That the contestee was eligible to be
              voted for and elected. Second. That he received 275 more votes than the contestor and
              was duly elected. Third. That he was ineligible to a seat in this House while he
              remained Deputy Postmaster. Fourth. That his disability was completely removed by his
              resignation, accepted on the 20th of December, 1870. That on the fifth day of January,
              1871, he was eligible to a seat in this House, and that he is defacto and dejure the Representative from the county of
              Laporte.
            Mr. ZENOR. On account of the similarity of this case to that of the Beatty-Peele
              contest here two years ago, and believing that that decision was right, he would be
              compelled to vote for the resolution.
            Mr. CAUTHORN called for a division of the question on the resolution--the first
              question being on the declaration that Shoenemann is not entitled to his seat.
            The yeas and nays being demanded and taken thereon resulted--yeas , nays , as
              follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Barnaby. Britton, Browning, Bruner,
                    Caldwell, Cauthorn, Copner. Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Davidson, Devol Dunham,
                    Galletine,Gentry. Goble, Gordon, or Cass, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Haynes,
                    Hendry, Hynes, Knight, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Minick, Miles,
                    Mitch-  ell, Montgomery, Neff, Oakley,
                    Rice, Shutt, Stanley. Stephens, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Tebbs, Walker, Warrum,
                    Zenor and Mr. Speaker--47.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Butterworth, Calkins
                    of Fulton, Connor, Defrees, Deputy, Freidley, Furnas, Gordon, of Boone, Heilman,
                    Henderson, Hill, Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Lines, Major, Martin of
                    Wayne, Martin, of Putnam, Millikan, Myers, Netherton, Rawles, Rhodes, Ruddell,
                    Sabin, Sayers, Snodgrass, Stephenson, St John, Stone, Strickland, Washburn,
                    White, Williams, Wilson, Wood, Woodward and Mr. Wymer--43.
                
              
            
            Mr. HENDERSON in explaining his vote said:
            Mr. SPEAKER. In reality there is but one point in the whole matter, and that was
              whether Schoenemann resigned prior to the 5th day of January and was no ager
              Postmaster. We nearly all agreed upon the other points of law in the case. The
              evidence showed middling clearly that Schoenemann did resign, and that resignation was
              accepted prior to the sitting of this Assembly. On these facts I claim that Shoenemann
              was as eligible to a seat in this Assembly as any man in it. After he resigned, and
              that resignation was accepted, he no longer held office; he was no longer postmaster
              according to the spirit of the Constitution of the State of Indiana. It was true, sir,
              that his bonds was still in force against him--large enough, doubtless, to cover all
              losses that might have occurred during the whole time he was postmaster. Shoenemann's
              bond will doubtless be in force long after his successor is qualified and has taken
              possession of the property of the office. Now, sir, the question is, when was
              Shoenemann divested of the office of postmaster? On this point we differed, and I
              claim, sir, that he was no longer postmaster after the acceptance of his resignation
              by the government The only thing that was left for him to do was to deliver, when
              called for, all the books, papers and such other property belonging to the office to
              his successor or some other agent of the government authorized to receive them. Now,
              sir, the office has clearly gone out of Shoenemann's reach. He could not get it back
              without the consent of the government. Neither could the governmen compel him to serve
              as postmaster any longer. I claim that the postoffice has gone far enough from
              Shoenemann for the light to shine distinctly between them. It has gone so far that it
              was out of the power of Shoenemann to get it back.
            Mr. KNIGHT, explaining: I believe that where a man accepts the office of Postmaster,
              to discharge the duties and receive its emoluments, he must hold it till his successor
              can take his place. He can not appoint his successor. At first, I had made up my mind
              to vote to admit Mr. Shonnemann, but from additional facts developed, I shall have to
              change my mind, for it is admitted that Shonnemann accepted the emoluments of the
              office till the 10th of January; that he continued to report to the Department--having
              failed to notify the Government of the emergency in time: and therefore he must be
              regarded as ineligible. I vote no.
            Mr. ST. JOHN (interposing). I did not make the statement that Shoenemann accepted the
              emoluments after his resignation.
            Mr. RAY was excused from voting.
            Mr. RUDDELL. I have had no doubt in my mind of the eligibility of Shoenemann at the
              commencement of the session, and that he was removed as postmaster; and there being no
              other man who received the majority of votes in his county I vote "no."
            Mr. TAYLOR was excused.
            The vote was then announced as above, and the question recurred on the second
              division of the first resolution, the yeas and nays thereon resulting--yeas, 61;
              nays,30--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Bruner,
                    Butterworth, Calkins of Fulton, Cauthorn, Conner, Cunningham, Deputy, Devol,
                    Friedley, Gordon of Boone, Hardin, Hartley, Heilman, Henderson, Hendry, Hill,
                    Holland, Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Knight, Lines, Major, Martin of
                    Wayne, Martin of Putnam, Minich, Miles, Millikan, Mitchell. Monroe, Myers, Neff,
                    Oatley, Ray, Rawles, Rhodes, Rice, Ruddell, Sabin, Sayers, Snodgrass, Stephens,
                    Stephenson, St. John Stone, Strickland, Taughinbaugh, Washburn, Warrum, White,
                    Williams, Wood, Woodward, Wymer, Zenor and Mr. Speaker.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Barnaby, Britton, Browning. Caldwell, Copner,
                    Cox, Curtis, Davidson, Defrees, Donham, Gallentine, Gentry, Goble, Gordon of
                    Cass Guthrie, Haynes, Hynes, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Montgomery,
                    Netherton, Simpson, Shutt, Stanley, Tarlton, Tebbs, Walker, and Wilson.
                
              
            
            Messrs. Ballenger, Biggs, Britton, Browning, Friedley, Kennedy, Lines, Netherton,
              Rawles, Rhodes, Ruddell, White and Zenor explaining their votes, and Messrs. Furnas
              and Taylor being excused--the result was announced as above.
            So, the first resolution was adopted.
            The second resolution, recommending that the reports from the Committee on
                Elections and from the Committee on the Judiciary, be
              laid on the table, Was adopted by yeas 61, nays 25.
            The House then took a recess till 2 o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed at 2 o'clook P. M.
            
              THE MORTON-CALKINS CONTEST.
              Mr. CAUTHORN (presenting a paper from C. N. Morton, addressed to the Speaker, and
                withdrawing his contest for the seat of Mr. Calkins of Porter, because the same
                point involved in his case has been decided by the House in the Wile Shoenemann
                case, and because he would not put his county to the expense of another election),
                submitted the following:
              
                
                  
                    WHEREAS. The contestor in the case of Charles N. Morton
                      against W. H. Calkins has asked leave of the House to withdraw the contest now
                      pending in relation to the seat, in the preset; Assembly, from the county of
                      Porter, for the reason therein stated; therefore,
                    Be it resolved, That Charles A. Morton be allowed to
                      withdraw his contest herein made.
                    Resolved, That the Committee on
                        Elections are hereby instructed to return the papers in said case
                      to the Clerk of the House, to be by him preserved as others papers are
                      preserved, and take no further action therein.

                    

                    Resolved, That said Charles N. Morton be allowed the sum of
                      $50 for expenses incurred herein. and $175 for 35 days attendance as per diem,
                      and $64 as mileage for 320 miles travel--that the same be paid by order drawn
                      on the State Treasury, attested by the Speaker of the House.
                  
                
              
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, hoped that objection would not he urged against the
                adoption of this resolution. In a similar case which was taken in a contest during
                the last session, a larger compensation was allowed.
              After further debate by Messrs. GORDON of Boone, NEFF and CALKINS--the latter
                insisting that it was but a matter of justice to his contestor, who is a gentleman,
                himself taking a liberal and highminded view of the case--under the force of the
                previous question, the preamble and resolution was rejected--yeas 24, nays 58.
              Mr. CALKINS of Porter then submitted the following:
              
                
                  
                    Resolved, That Charles W. Morton be allowed the sum of $175
                      for thirty-five days attendance, and $65 for 320 miles travel, which shall be
                      paid on an order on the State Treasurer, attested by the Speaker.
                  
                
              
              Which was adopted by yeas 48, nays 42.
            
            
              CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION BILL.
              Mr. CALKINS--of Porter's Constitutional Convention bill [H. R. 103], was now taken
                upon the second reading, it being the especial order of the day--the question being
                on a motion to indefinitely postpone the bill.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, spoke at length in support of the bill--the speech being
                reserved for revision will appear hereafter.
              Mr. NEFF replied briefly.
              Mr. BUTTERWORTH demanded the previous question, and under its pressure the motion
                was agreed to on a division--affirmative, 48, negative not announced.
              So the bill was indefinitely postponed.
              Mr. STONE presented two claims.
            
            
              COMMERCIAL LAWS.
              Mr. CAUTHORN presented the memorial of the convention of business men of the State
                held in Indianapolis on the first day of February, together with the draft of
                several bills for sundry amendments to the commercial law of the State. The memorial
                is in the following words:
              
                To the General Assembly of the State of Indiana:
              
              The undersigned, a committee appointed by a delegate convention of the business men
                of the State, held at Indianapolis, on Wednesday, the 1st day of February, 1871,
                respectfully submit to your honorable body the following
            
            
              MEMORIAL:
              Said convention was called, pursuant to public notice through the daily and weekly
                papers of the State, and by circular letters addressed to Boards of Trade and
                business men in various towns and cities, for a commercial convention to consider,
                with a view to recommending appropriate legislation, certain subjects, on which a
                revision of the laws was deemed necessary, in order to further the interests of
                commerce, trade and manufacture, and thereby promote the general welfare. The
                convention was numerously attended by leading business men of the State, every
                Congressional district but one being represented, and the convention, after careful
                deliberation, adopted, with remarkable unanimity, the following propositions and
                recommendations, the favorable consideration of which by your body will, in the
                judgment of the Convention, promote the best interests of the State.
              The Convention was of the opinion that the great need of Indiana, in order to
                develop her vast resources, was the enactment of such laws as should promote the
                introduction into the State of more wealth producing citizens and more
                capital--briefly, more men and more money. To this end, it was deemed requisite that
                labor should find active and permanent employment in diversified pursuits, at good
                wages, and that capital, whether in trust, or investment, or in the immediate
                control of its owners, should receive fuller protection by law in order to secure it
                from fraud and perversion, and its returns from unnecessary delay. The committee
                submit the several propositions adopted by the convention without explanation or
                argument. The reasons which actuated the Convention can, if desired, be presented in
                detail to the various committees to which the subjects may be referred.
            
            
              THE CONVENTION RECOMMEND:
              
                The adoption, by the General Assembly, of such measures as will promote
                  immigration to this State.
                Asking Congress to pass an appropriation to construct an outside harbor
                  and otherwise improve the port of Michigan City in accordance with the recent
                  recommendations of the United States Board of Engineers.
                Asking for an act providing for deeds of trust for amounts not less
                  than five thousand dollars.
                Asking for a law protecting the holders of warehouses receipts and
                  bills of lading, the issuing of wrong receipts made a felony, and punished
                  accordingly.
                Asking the Legislature to pass a law more clearly defining
                  embezzlement, and making it felony on the part of any bailee, factor or commission
                  merchant to convert property or proceeds to his own use in amounts exceeding
                  $25.
                Asking for a law defining days of grace on bills of exchange and
                  drafts, and to allow three days grace on sight drafts, with no grace on demand or
                  "no time paper," except ordinary bank checks and banker's drafts.
                Asking the Legislature to amend the law so as to require that deeds and
                  mortgages shall be recorded within thirty days, instead of ninety days as at
                  present.
                Asking for a law providing for the return of all executions in the
                  hands of sheriffs within ninety days instead of six months.
                Asking for a repeal of the law allowing redemption of property sold at
                  sheriff's sale, in all contracts hereafter to be made.
                Asking for the repeal of all laws providing for appraisement and
                  valuation of property sold on execution.

                

                Asking the passage of a law making judgments bear the same rate of
                  interest as the contracts upon which they were obtained.
                Asking that the Legislature pass a law prohibiting all seining and
                  netting of fish in the streams and lakes of the State of Indiana.
                Asking that the existing statutes relating to landlord and tenant,
                  being harsh and oppressive, may be greatly modified.
                Recommending a law fixing the weight of corn in the ear at seventy
                  pounds per bushel.
                Recommending the passage of a law against the sale of salt fish and
                  other articles of merchandise in short-weight packages.
                Recommending a revision of the laws for the collection of taxes and
                  the adoption of a system which will insure the collection of the entire amount of
                  taxes assessed by State, county or township authority throughout the State.
                Recommending the enactment of a law defining legal holidays.
              
              The Committee have prepared bills and petitions comprehending the above subjects,
                all of which are respectfully submitted to the General Assembly for their
                consideration.
              By order of the Convention:
              WILLARD CARPENTER JOHN
                  ZULAUF, B. F. JONES, IRVIN REID, W. P. FISHBACK, FRANCIS SMITH, J. W. MURPHY,
                  WILLIAM WINES, L. A. FOOTE, C. B. KNOWLTON, JOEL B. EDWARDS, H. H. WALKER, W. R. NOFSINGER, A. L. ROACHE, NATHAN KIMBALL, T. B. ELLIOTT, W. C. TARKINGTOM. Committee.
              Mr. CAUTHORN, thereupon, also submitted a resolution,which was adopted, that the
                said memorial of the business men of the State together with the drafts of
                resolutions and bills recommended by them be referred to a joint select committee,
                to consist of four members on the part of the House of Repre-ratives to act with a
                similar committee on the part of the Senate, and that said committee be required to
                consider and report on the same as they may see proper,
              Mr. WARRUM presented a petition for amendment of the divorce laws.
              Mr. NEFF asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill reported in compliance with
                the resolution of Mr. Taylor, to-wit: A bill [H. R. 267] for an act to provide for
                the payment into the general fund of the State Treasury all moneys collected from
                the State Debt Sinking Fund tax which may not be needed for the payment of the State
                debt.
            
            
              CHANGE OF VENUE.
              Mr. TARLTON introduced a bill [H. R. 268] for an act to provide for changes of
                venue from the criminal courts, and legalizing changes already granted.
              Mr. MACK (Mr. Cauthorn in the chair) stated that there is no law for a change of
                venue from the Criminal to the Circuit courts.
              On motion of Mr. CALKINS of Porter, (the rules and restrictions being suspended for
                the purpose) the bill was read three times and finally passed the House of
                Representatives, yeas 82, nays 1.
              Messrs. St. John, McFarland and Britton presented temperance petitions. Mr.
                Milligan a divorce petition, and Mr. Cox a petition to let the gravel road law
                alone.
            
            
              THE CALENDERSTATE CLAIMS.
              The Senate joint resolution No. 6, for the prosecution and collection of State
                claims, was passed by the House of Representatives without amendment by yeas 82,
                nays 2.
              The Senate joint resolution No. 8, in relation to an appropriation by Congress for
                the completion of the Michigan City harbor, was passed by the House by yeas 86, nays
                none.
              The engrossed bill [S.149] to amend section 14 of the act concerning promissory
                notes, etc., was passed on the first reading.
            
            
              IRON-CLAD NOTES.
              Mr. Ballenger's iron-clad note bill, [H. R. 75,] was finally passed the House of
                Representatives--yeas 74, nay 13.
              Mr. Defrees' game law bill, [H. R. 62,] coming up on the third reading, was
                rejected by yeas 39, nays 53.
            
            
              THE WORD WHITE.
              Mr. WILSON called for another vote on his bill, [H. R. 82,] to amend the act
                providing for the enumeration of white male inhabitants of the State, &c., which
                failed before for want of a constitutional majority--
              After debate thereon by Messrs. Wilson, Mitchell and Cox, the second vote thereon
                resulted yeas 47, nays 47; so the bill was rejected.
              Mr. MINICH explaining and voting no.
              Mr. McDonald's Fifth Judge of the Supreme Court bill [H. R. 68] was read and
                considered on its final passage.
              After debate by Messrs. McDonald, Cauthorn, Cox, Copner, Biggs and Browning, the
                yeas and nays thereon resulted--yeas 44, nays 52.
              So the bill was rejected.
              Mr. BROWNING moved to reconsider the vote and to lay his motion on the table.
              The latter motion was agreed to.
              Mr. RUDDELL moved ineffectually to take up the Senate joint resolution postponing
                the election of Agent of State till the 22d of February.
              On motion of Mr. SIMPSON Mr. Holland obtained leave of absence till next week.
            
            
              STATE TEMPERANCE ALLIANCE MEMORIAL.
              On motion of Mr. STONE the House took a recess till 7 1/2 o'clock--[at which time
                the two Houses attended on the memorial of the State Temperance Alliance.]
            
          
          
            NIGHT SESSION.
            The Senate and House met in joint session at 7 1/2 o'clock to hear the memorial of
              the State Temperance Alliance presented by their committee.
            The memorial was read by Professor B. C. Hobbs, their chairman, as follows:

            

            
              To the General Assembly of the State of Indiana.
            
            At the last session of the Indiana State Temperance Alliance, held in the city of
              Indianapolis, February 1st and 2d, 1871, among other proceedings the following
              memorial was adopted, viz:
            "Memorial to the Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Indiana by the
              State Temperance Alliance of Indiana.
            GENTLEMEN: Being solemnly impressed with the belief that the
              peace, order and prosperity of a State depend on the industry, temperance,
              intelligence and virtue of its citizens, and that the use and sale of intoxicating
              liquors as a beverage is subversive of these ends; and that the State is not without
              its responsibility for the results of imperfect laws, and for any lack of legislation
              that will render the people unable to protect themselves from the damages of
              immorality and crime; and remembering that the constitution of this State concedes to
              the people "that all free governments are, and of right ought to be, founded on their
              authority and instituted for their peace, safety and well being;"
            And while we declare that our ultimate object and purpose is the entire supression of
              the traffic in intoxicating liquors as a beverage, yet for the purpose of advancing
              toward, and attaining that object, we respectfully and earnestly ask your honorable
              body,
            
              To enact such law or laws as will forbid and suppress the traffic in
                intoxicating liquors as a beverage, except upon petition of a majority of the legal
                voters of the township, town, or city ward in which such sale is proposed to be
                made.
              That all venders of intoxicating liquors shall be held by law,
                jointly liable with the person intoxicated, for the crimes or misdemeanors of those
                whom they have caused by such sale to be intoxicated.
              That all rooms used for the sale of intoxicating liquors be kept open
                to the public,and unobstructed by screens or other blinds while making such sales,
                and that such rooms be closed, and sales declared illegal, that are made on the
                Sabbath, Christmas, New Year, Fourth of July, Thanksgiving days, and on all election
                days; and whenever the provisions of the law under which permission to sell
                intoxicating liquors has been given, are violated, such permission shall be
                forfeited.
              That it be made the duty of the Prosecuting Attorney of the
                Criminal, Circuit or Common Pleas Courts, or some of such attorneys, to appear
                before the boards of county commissioners of their respective circuits or districts,
                and for and in behalf of the State of Indiana, resist the granting of any and all
                permission to sell intoxicating liquors in less quantities than a quart; providing,
                that the applicant shall pay the fees of such attorney on the basis of a smaller
                amount where permission is granted, than when refused, and, also, providing that
                appeals shall be taken from any subordinate tribunal, in the name of the State,
                without bond, and pending such appeal the applicant shall not sell, barter, or give
                away liquors.
            
            Holding dear the interests of both Church and State, and desiring the guarantee to
              ever citizen of all those rights and privileges which are not inconsistent with the
              general good, and which will not be a snare for and a ruin to our youth, we earnestly
              ask for the enactment of such laws as will shield the citizens of the State from
              intemperance and crime, and inspire our youth with the love of temperance, purity,
              virtue, and truth--and for these things we shall ever pray.
            BARNABAS HOBBS, F. C. HOLLIDAY, A. L. ROBINSON, T. B. MCCORMICK, JOHN W. RAY, 
                Committee on Temperance Legislation
              .
            We, R. T. Brown, President, and Thomas A. Goodwin, Secretary, of the Indiana State
              Temperance Alliance, hereby certify the foregoing to be a copy of the memorial passed
              by the Indiana State Temperance Alliance, February 2, 1871.
            Witness our hands this day of February, A. D. 1871.
            R. T. BROWN, President. T. A. GOODWIN, Secretary.
            The reading of the memorial was followed by an address from the Chairman, to-wit:
            Prof. BARNABAS C. HOBBS, Superintendent of Public Instruction, spoke as follows:
            We appear before you in the interest of the law loving people of the State. We come
              in the interest of all who love its honor. Industry, wealth, prosperity, religion,
              virtue, all depend on the success of our cause. Good and steady habits, clear heads
              and good consciences are the powers that elevate and sustain the State. True
              patriotism, benevolence, intelligence, honor, all that enables man and goes to make up
              the true grandeur of the State and nation, can be successfully sustained only when the
              legislator and the citizen unite their labors in their support.
            It is estimated in these United States that 130,000 places are licensed to sell
              spirituous liquors, employing 390,000 persons. Its manufacture and wholesale traffic
              will swell this number to 570,000, or one man to every seventy-five
                inhabitants.
            The whole number of clergymen and teachers is estimated at 150,000--or about one fourth the above number.
            Clergymen cost the United States about $12,000,000.
            Criminals are estimated to cost us $40,000,-000; intoxicating drinks $700,000,000.
              Total, $740,000,000, sixty times the cost of religious teaching.
            Every year intoxicating drinks are estimated to send to prison 100,000 persons, to
              reduce 200,000 children to worse than orphanage, to add 600,000 to the list of
              drunkards, and to send 60,000 to premature graves.
            I regret that I cannot obtain reliable statistics of the relation of the liquor
              traffic to our State interests, except for her capital  city. Indianapolis is estimated to have forty wholesale
              liquor stores, that sell $6,000,000 worth each year. It has three hundred licensed
              saloons, which are estimated to employ three persons each, or nine hundred persons, at
              a probable cost of $600,-000. Her entire educational work costs about $100,000. It
              will be seen then that the retail profits of Indianapolis, not counting the cost to
              the consumer, is six times the expense of the education of her 12,000 children, and
              the receipts of her wholesale liquor traffic are more than three times the cost of the
              educational work of the public schools of the entire State.
            The influence of this work on our people can not be overlooked. Taking the entire
              population of the country as estimated by the Medical Review of St.
              Louis, "122 men out of every 300, a little more than one-third, never drink spirits.
              One hundred drink moderately, but, not to intoxication; fifty are ephemeral drinkers;
              twenty-five drink moderately, called spreeing; and three, or one hundredth are
              confirmed inebriates. There is one inebriate to every 59 1/2 men."
            Of 700 women, 600 never taste alcoholic drinks of any kind; thirty taste wine
              occasionally, seventeen ardent spirits, thirty-six ale or beer constantly, fourteen
              ardent spirits periodically, and three, or one in 233 1/2 are habitual inebriates,"
              Bear in mind these estimates are taken for the whole country, and not for Indiana.
            "Fewer women drink than men, but a larger proportion of those who drink become
              habitual drinkers. Debauch drinkers rarely become habitual, but periodical drinkers; the latter rarely become habitual inebriates as the
              violence of their drinking is too great and leads to disgusting satiety, and hence to
              intervals of sobriety.
            "But this wonderful power, terribly arbitrary in its demands, while it is carrying on
              its work leaves the wreck it makes for benevolence and Christianity to relieve.
            
              "THE PEOPLE MUST FOOT ITS BILLS."
              Jails, penitentiaries, infirmaries, hospitals, reformatories are the relief
                humanity feels compelled to give, and every man and woman whose name goes on the tax
                list must share in the payment of the bill it sends up to us year by year.
              If this were all we might be contented passively to permit the law to distrain our
                goods in its support. When we look over our State and remember that near one million
                of our population are under twenty one years of age, and will be in life just what
                the laws and people of the State make them, we can feel some sense of our
                responsibility and duty.
              What father, what mother does not feel solemn in conjecturing the future of a son
                or daughter--of a son when he fears that a small snare set by a siren hand is
                insidiously doing an unsuspected work, and like a vampire is sapping every vestige
                of joy and hope, just as manliness of form and a well trained mind are entering upon
                active life; of a daughter who, trusting in the intelligence, standing,
                opportunities and vows of one to whom she has confided her life, discovers in the
                betraying breath, the late hour, the conscience paralyzed, that all her hopes in
                earthly happiness are dead.
              How much of deep hidden, silent sorrow--sorrow unknown to the dram-seller, unknown
                to busy men in the street, unknown to the legislator, unkown to all but Him who
                looks down from the deep blue sky and beholds the workmanship of his own hands a
                wreck--a wreck perchance beyond redemption.
              But what can we do? may be asked. Men's appetites are imperious in their demands,
                and in a free government, majorities must rule. All power is derived from the
                people, and the law maker is only their delegated representative, and government is
                instituted "for their peace, safety and well being."
              That is just what your memorialists desire. The great problem our nation undertook
                to solve one hundred years ago was that the people had the right to make their own
                laws and to govern themselvees; and since no people can be long free without virtue,
                what we need is wholesome laws for the protection and support of virtue, and such
                that the people desiring this end may obtain it. This is one of the fundamental
                rights we ask in our laws regulating the use and sale of intoxicating drinks. Give
                the people the power to determine in their corporations, in their primary spheres of
                government, the power to act for themselves, and in such communities where the
                majority may demand the right to use and sell it, that the good of the State and the
                happiness of the sufferer can not be overlooked. Minorities have rights on the side
                of virtue, love and justice.
              But one more solemn duty rests on the General Assembly, a duty from which no power
                on earth can absolve itself. It is both solemn and imperious and for the right
                performance of it--all good men pray that you may have grace from Heaven to see what
                your duty is, and the moral courage to perform it. That solemn duty under the laws
                governing this State is to determine what is a crime and what shall be its
                penalties. The Great Legislator has given a book for our instruction. "See that thou
                do all things according to the pattern shown thee in the mount." If making a man
                drunk is a crime let us call it so in our laws. If, from this cause, homes are made
                desolate, innocents suffer, strife and crime are in the streets, why, not require
                that each who is an agent in the offense shall be held jointly responsible to the
                State.
              One thought more and I will close. There are some men who think that when the
                millennium shall come, when intelligence and virtue shall rule the earth, the work
                of the Legislator will be at an end. Not so. In no place can we conceive of a more
                perfect system of law, and a system enforced with greater precision, beauty and
                perfection than in Heaven itself. In the millennium legislators will only be so
                wise, so just and so true that the laws they make will harmonize with the Divine
                Law, and the King-  doms of this world will
                become the Kingdoms of our Lord and of His Christ.
              After the delivery of the address, Dr. Holliday and Col. John W. Ray, as members of
                the Committee, spoke at length on the interests of the State in connection with
                Temperance Reform, showing its economy and desirability in the diminution of crime.
                The speakers all favored a fair, just and honorable course, having a due regard to
                the rights of all.
              Mr. Representative NETHERTON, being called upon, also spoke earnestly and
                effectively in favor of the objects sought by the memorialists.
              The LIEUT. GOVERNOR declared the Convention adjourned.
              The SPEAKER commanded order, and--
              The House adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            WEDNESDAY, February 8, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock--the LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR in the Chair.
          Chaplain services were conducted by Rev. Mr. ANDRUS, of the Meridian Street M. E.
            Church.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read, till--
          On motion by Mr. ROBINSON, the further reading was dispensed with.
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. HAMILTON presented a lengthy petition on temperance from Thorntown, Boone county,
              for the suppression of the traffic in intoxicating liquors.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR laid before the Senate the memarial of the State Temperance
              Alliance--[printed on the preceding page].
            Mr. WADGE presented a remonstrance against the passage of any law relating to the
              drainage of lands by any Company, and praying for the repeal of the law of 1869.
            Mr. DWIGGINS presented similar petition from the citizens of Starke and Jasper
              counties.
            Mr. BRADLEY presented a memorial from the business men of Indiana--[printed two or
              three pages preceding this].
            These papers were referred to the appropriate Committees.
          
          
            AGENT OF STATE.
            Mr. BRADLEY, as Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, returned the bill [S. 10]
              abolishing the office of Agent of State, in accordance with a resolution of the
              Senate.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved for a suspension of the rules, that the bill may be read the
              second time now.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 19, nays 18; accordingly--
            The bill was read the second time.
            Mr. BRADLEY moved its reference to the Committee on Finance.
            Mr. BROWN favored the motion, The abolition of the office may be a more serious
              matter than many think. If it can be safely abolished, without damage to the interests
              of the State, he would have no objection, but would rather favor it.
            Mr. DWIGGINS opposed the motion, for he could see no reason for the reference.
            Mr. GREGG urged the consideration and passage of his bill at once. He believed it a
              matter of legislation demanded by the people of the whole State.
            Mr. GRAY moved that his bill on the same subject be also referred to the
                Committee on Finance, as it is more perfect than the one before
              the Senate.
            Mr. GREEN preferred the bill under consideration, for reasons which he gave.
            Mr. MARTINDALE suggested, while it would be a good thing to do so, as it requires
              thirty-four to suspend the rules it is not likely the bill would be passed to-day. He
              did not care how this question was reached, but he wanted to reach it. He preferred
              Mr. Gray's bill, and favored his motion in order to get at this matter with as little
              delay as possible.
            Mr. SCOTT regarded this bill as effecting the greatest thing of the session; as
              really the most important measure before the Senate; a question in which millions are
              involved. He never would cast a vote for the abolition of the office of Agent of State
              until informed what would be the result of such action on the part of the State as to
              the interest of the State as centered in tho acts of 1846 and 1847. Hardly a day has
              passed over my head, said he, since I came herein the first day of January last, but I
              have heard of bond after bond outstanding and yet unpaid. I understand the amount
              stated by the Governor in his message is not one-half the amount owning by the State,
              and I think I know what I am talking about on that subject.
            Mr. MARTINDALE (interposing). I will ask the Senator does he know of other
              outstanding bonds than those mentioned in the message of the Governor.
            Mr. SCOTT. I know sir, if there is any faith in man, and I believe some men--there
              are other bonds outstanding and to a large amount; because I know men have tried to
              buy them and could not do so.
            Mr. BRADLEY (interposing). If the Senator will allow me, I will state that I am
              creditably informed that there are 370 bonds beyond those mentioned by the Governor in
              his message in the city of Chicago.
            Mr. SCOTT (resuming). And a man went over from my town not a week ago to try to buy
              them. Several weeks ago he could have  got them
              for almost nothing, but now he cannot buy them for love or money. Whether they are
              genuine, or not I know not; but they are purported to be genuine. Mr. S
              proceeded--defending and explaining the course of the Committee on the
                Judiciary in not reporting upon a subject embracing so important and
              intricate questions.
            Mr. BROWN followed, insisting that the office of Agent of State can not be abolished
              without violating the contract in the Butler Bills, until the constitution be changed,
              or until the stocks of the State issued under the arrangement referred to, have been
              surrendered.
            Mr. LASALLE contended that the acts of 1846-7 did not make it obligatory upon the
              State to keep up the office of Agent of State in New York or anywhere else, and in
              view of the fact that the people of Indiana are burdened with taxation, State,
              national and municipal, he thought it a duty to dispense with this expenditure.
            Mr. HOOPER feared the abolition of this office would complicate the question of the
              State's liability upon the bonds in question, and preferred to see the House bill
              pass, which cuts down the salary of the Agent of State to $1,000, and which he
              understood was intended to cover all the expenses of that office.
            Mr. GRAY was not clear but that there might be danger in abolishing this office at
              this time; but could not understand why the Judiciary had not reported back to the
              Senate the bills on the subject which had been in their possession three or four
              weeks. If no objection were made ha would withdraw his motion to refer his bill to the
              Finance Committee.
            Mr. BROWN objected.
            At the suggession of Mr. MARTINDALE and by consent it was understood that all bills
              on this subject may be included in the motion to refer.
            Mr. WILLIAMS demanded the previous question.
            The Senate seconded the demand by a vote of 23 in the affirmative, and under the
              operation thereof--
            The motion to refer was agreed to.
            Mr. BRADLEY, as Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, returned the bill [S. 31] to
              provide for the payment of certain stocks and bonds therein mentioned.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved that the three bills having reference to this subject be
              returned by the Committee and made the special order for Tuesday next at 2 1/2 o'clock
              P. M. in Committee of the Whole.
            The motion was agreed to upon a division; affirmation 20, negative 18.
             And then came the recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at 2 o'clock, and announced the order of
              reports from committees.
            Mr. HOOPER, from the Judiciary Committee, returned the bill [S. 113] authorizing
              suits to be brought in partnership names, with a favorable recommendation.
            Mr. SCOTT, from the same committee, returned the bill [S. 142] on the subject of
              limitation, with amendments.
            Mr. CAVE, from the Committee on Agriculture, returned the bill [S.
              56] amending section 30 of the Supervisor act of December 20,1865, with a favorable
              report.
            Mr. GLESSNER presented a petition on the subject of temperance from the county of
              Bartholomew.
            It was referred to the Committee on Temperance.
            Mr HENDERSON, from the Committee on Fees and Salaries returned [S.
              150] supplemental to the act for the election of Circuit Court of Clerks with a
              favorable report thereon. These reports go to the files under the rule adopted by
              common conesnt.
            
              NO SMOKERS.
              Mr. BEESON offered a resolution which was adopted directing the Doorkeeper to
                prohibit smoking in the Chamber and adjoining rooms.
            
            
              NEWSPAPERS--INDIANA AMERICAN.
              Mr. MILLER offered a resolution instructing the Doorkeeper to contract for one copy
                of the semi-weekly Indiana American, commencing with the beginning
                of the session.
              It was adopted upon a division--affirmative 25, negative 16.
            
            
              NEW PROPOSITIONS.
              The following described bills were introduced, read the first time and severally
                passed to the second reading except as otherwise stated.
              By Mr. GREEN, a bill [S. 192] authorizing certain draining companies to amend their
                articles of association, and declaring such companies valid corporations on the
                terms therein prescribed.
              Subsequently the rules were dispensed with, the bill was read by title and referred
                to the Committee on Corporations.
              By Mr. DITTEMORE, a bill [S. 193] to fix the times of holding the Court of Common
                Pleas in Green, Owen, Clay, Putnam and Morgan counties.
              By Mr. TAYLOR, a bill [S. 194] to allow defenses to be made to suits on promissory
                notes made payable in bank, given in consideration of any letters patent, or
                interest claimed to be secured by any letters patent, or territory or agent.
              On his further motion the constitutional restriction was dispensed with, yeas 39,
                nays 0, and the bill was read by title and referred to the Committee on
                  Judiciary.
              By Mr. BEESON, a bill [S. 195] defining misdemeanors and prescribing the penalty
                therefor--no animal to run at large as provided by the act of May, 1852.
              By Mr. WILLIAMS, [8.196] to amend sections 2 and 3 of the act to fix the number of
                Senators and Representatives--being a new apportionment for Senatorial and
                Representative purposes.
              Mr. MARTINDALE made a motion to reject the bill, and thereupon demanded the
                previous question.

              

              Mr. WILLIAMS made the point of order that two motions could not be made at
                once.
              Mr. BROWN demanded a call of the Senate.
              The LIEUT. GOVERNOR overruled the point of order and also ruled the demand for a
                call of the House out of order.
              The Senate refused to second the demand for the previous question--upon a division
                affirmative 20, negative 22.
              The motion to reject the bill was rejected by yeas 20, nays 23.
            
            
              DRAINS AND LEVEES.
              Mr. WADGE moved to suspend the order of business that the bill [H. R. 23] to repeal
                the drainage law of 1869 may be read the first time by title, for the purpose of
                reference.
              The motion was agreed to. Accordingly--
              The bill was read by title and referred to the Committee on
                  Corporations.
            
            
              FEES AND SALARIES.
              Mr. HENDERSON demanded the special order--the consideration of the fee and salary
                bills (S. 3 and S. 4), and therefore--according to order--
              The Senate resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole--
              Mr. GRAY in the chair.
              On motion by Mr. GLESSNER, the committee first considered the bill (S. 4) fixing
                the compensation of county officers.
              The Clerk read the first section, when:
              On motion by Mr. BROWN, the Committee rose, reported progress, and asked leave to
                sit again.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR then announced, the Senate having been informed that the
                House is in waiting to proceed with the election of an Agent of State in joint
                convention, Senators will now proceed to the Hall of the House for that purpose.
              Senators then left the Chamber.
              When they returned:
              Mr. DITTE MORE asked and obtained leave of absence for the Committee on
                  Military Affairs for to-morrow and next day.
            
            
              FEES AND SALARIES.
              The Lieutenant GOVERNOR called on Mr. GRAY to take the Chair; and thereupon the
                Senate resolved itself into a Committee on the Whole.
              The Secretary resumed the reading of the bill [S. 4] fixing the compensation of
                county officers, when the reading thereof was concluded.
              On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE his bill [S. 3] regulating the fees of all officers was
                read.
              Mr. MARTINDALE, in order to get a test vote, moved that Senate bill No. 4 be
                reported back to the Senate with a recommendation that it be indefinitely postponed;
                and that No, 3 be returned with a favorable report thereon. He explained that the
                bill No. 3 was more particularly a fee bill, for it allows officers to make whatever
                they make out of the fees until they make two thousand dollars. After they reach
                that amount they pay into the county treasury 70 per cent. of the balance; so in no
                case can the county pay anything for salaraies. By the terms of No. 4, they pay 80
                per cent. of all fees into the treasury, and are paid salaries out of the fund so
                raised at the rate of $1,500. The rate paid to deputies are the same in both bills.
                He thought, after consideration, that neither one is correct and equitable in this
                particular. The fees in each bill are not largely reduced.
              Mr. HENDERSON also explained the difference between the two bills under
                consideration. According to the last official census report he declared that in
                Grant county--an average county with regard to population--with a population of
                18,490, under the provisions of his bill, [S.4,] the clerk would receive $1,500 for
                salary and $849 for deputy hire; then 20 per cent for fees for taxes paid into the
                county treasury--estimating that he would collect taxes to the amount of $4,000,
                would be $800. Total, $3,149. The Sheriff would receive about the same amount; and
                the Auditor $2,600 or $2,700, and the Treasurer about $2,300. Under this bill the
                surplus after the salaries are paid, goes into the county treasury. He took the
                position that the fees collected off of litigants will be found sufficient to pay
                the salaries of the four county officers in average counties of the State, which
                would be a saving of a large amount of money to the people. There are many
                provisions in both bills precisely similar, and either bill in his judgment would
                work a great and much needed reform in the present system of fees and salaries.
               Mr. GLESSNER stated that the bill No. 3 contains 51 sections, while the bill No. 4
                has but, 23 sections. A large portion of No. 3 is copied from the fiee bill--it
                takes up the Secretary of State and follows each officer down to Constable, while
                No. 4 is a clean county officer's bill.
              Mr. WILLIAMS moved that the Committee rise, report progress and ask leave to sit
                again, that he might submit to the Senate the point of order that under a
                Constitutional provision these bills can not originate in the Senate--as, in his
                judgment, they propose to tax the people and raise the revenue.
              The motion was agreed to.
              Accordingly the committee rose and the chairman reported progress, as directed.
               Mr. WILLIAMS made the point of order indicated above reading from the constitution
                in support; thereof.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR regarded the provision of the constitution cited as simply
                referring to bills to tax the people for the express purpose of raising revenue. In
                the bills No. 3 and 4 the revenue is incidental--it may be collected and it may not;
                and therefore he decided they were not of the class of bills prohibited from
                originating in the Senate. So the point of order was overruled.
              The Senate adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            WEDNESDAY, February 8, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock a. m. The order of prayer by Rev. Mr. Asbury.
          The journal of yesterday was read and approved--till on motion of Mr. WYMER the further
            reeding was dispensed with.
          Mr. GORDON, of Boone, stated a correction of these reports yesterday in this: Mr.
            Friedley's amendment for the State Agent's pay was $500, not $5,000.
          
            ROBERT S. TAYLOR.
            Mr. McDOWELL, from a minority of the Committee on Elections,
              reported that as R. S. Taylor, a sitting: Representative for Allen county, was holding
              the Judgeship of the 19th Judicial District, &c., he is ineligible under the
              constitution to a seat in this body, the recommended resolutions declaring that fact,
              and directing the Clerk to acquaint the Governor.
            Mr. BALLENGER moved that, the report be made the special order for to- morrow at 10
              o'clock.
            The motion was rejected -yeas 41, nays, 44.
            Mr. CAUTHORN, from the majority of said committee, reported a resolution that Robert
              S. Taylor was duly elected a representative from the county of Allen, and he is
              entitled to the seat he now holds.
            Mr. McDONALD moved for the adoption of this resolution, and demanded the previous
              question, and there was a second, and the main question was ordered, and the vote was
              ordered.
            Mr. DEVOL made the point; of order, that the vote should be taken first on the
              minority report.
            The SPEAKER held that the point is well taken; and announced the question
              accordingly.
            Mr. WILSON appealed from the decision, but did not press it, at the request of a
              number around him.
            The vote on the adoption of the minority report by way of amendment to that of the
              majority resulted--yeas 2, nays 87; so the minority report was rejected. Messrs.
              Britton and Curtis were excused; Mr. McDonald residing near the party interested
              stated that Mr. Taylor was a Judge by the appointment of Governor Baker, that it was
              not a constitutional office; and that he regarded him as legally elected; and the
              question recurred on the adoption of the report of the majority of the
                Committee on Elections.
            The yeas and nays taken thereon resulted yeas 87, nays 2, as follows:
            
              
                
                  Yeas--Messrs. Abbett, Ballenger, Barnaby, Beeler, Biggs, Browning, Bruner,
                    Butterworth, Caldwell, Calkins, of Fulton; Calkins, of Porter; Cauthorn,
                    Coggswell, Conner Copner, Cunningham, Curtis, Davidson, Defrees, Deputy, Devol,
                    Donham, Friedley, Furnas, Gallentine, Goble, Gordon, of Boone: Guthrie, Hardin,
                    Hartley, Haynes, Heilman, Henderson, Hendry, Hill, Hooker, Hynes, Kennedy, King,
                    Kirkpatrick, Knight, Lines, Logan, Major, Martin, of Wayne; Martin, of Putnam;
                    McDonald, McFarland, McGowan, Minich, Miles, Mitchell, Monroe, Montgomery,
                    Myers, Neff, Netherton, Oatley, Rawles, Rhodes, Rice, Ruddell. Sabin, Sansberry,
                    Sayers, Simpson, Shutt, Snodgrass, Stephens, St John, Stone, Strickland,
                    Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Tebbs, Walker, Washburn, Warrum, White, Williams, Wilson,
                    Wood, Woodward, Wymer, Zenor and Mr. Speaker--87.
                  Nays--Messrs. Cox and McDowell--2.
                
              
            
            Mr. CAUTHORN explained his vote, saying that the office of Judge Taylor was not a
              constitutional office. He was a Judge of the Common Pleas--a court created by statute;
              and that he was not elected but holding the office by appointment to fill a
              vacancy.
            Mr. BROWNING submitted an order which was adopted, to allow the Clerk $50 additional
              in stationery.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Committee on the Judiciary, the bill [S.
              105] to abolish the 29th Criminal Circuit Court, &c., recommending its passage
              with amendments, inserting in the 5th section the words "and felonies," as provided in
              the 17th section of the Common Pleas Court, act of May 14, 1852.
             Mr. NEFF from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr. Cox's bill [H. R. 205] for
              relief of the heirs of Ralph Tanner, deceased, recommending its passage.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
              Calkins of Fulton's bill [H. R. 171] providing for justices' proceedings supplementary
              to the judgment--being supplemental to the Justices's act of June 9, 1852,
              recommending that it be laid on the table. He stated that it gives to the justice
              similar powers to those exercised by the judges of the Common Pleas. The plaintiff, on
              request, may have an order requiring the defendant to appear and answer in relation to
              his property before the execution, and it provides that the justice may order the
              sale, without prescribing by whom or upon what terms.
            Mr. CALKINS of Fulton stated his understanding of the provisions of the bill--that
              the justice may have the same powers of the sheriff as far as his jurisdiction
              extends, &c.
            The report was not concurred in, and the bill goes to the files.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Committee on the Judiciary, reported the
              opinion that the law allows the assistants of the doorkeeper appointed to keep the
              hall in order, but $3 per day each according to the former order of the House.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. MILES, from the Committee on Banks, returned his municipal
              bank tax bill [H. R. 6], recommending its passage. And, on his motion, its
              consideration was made the special order for to-morrow at half-past two o'clock.
            Mr. MITCHELL, from the Committee on Education, returned Mr.
              Ruddell's bill [H. R- 234], providing a system of Common Schools in cities of 30,000
              inhabitants and over, recommending its passage.
            Mr. RUDDELL moved, ineffectually, for a suspension of the restrictions upon the
              further readings of the bill to-day.
            Mr. ZENOR reported allowance of the account of the proprietors of The
                People newspaper--$32 96.

            

            Also, the account of W. B. Vickers, of the Evening Mirror--$50
              40.
            Mr. HARTLEY reported allowance of the claim of Eliza Blake for $250.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, reported adversely as to the claim of Jared Cottrell.
            Mr. SABIN reported adversely as to the resolution to authorize the Governor to offer
              $500 for the arrest of P. L. Fleming, the alleged murderer of Mr. Hall.
            These reports were severally concurred in: and those faverable were referred to the
                Committee on Ways and Means.
            Mr. BROWNING, from the Committee on Claims, reported for allowance
              of the claim of Matthew L. Brett, former Treasurer of State, for $1,360, conscience
              money-to reimburse his loss to that amount.
            After debate by Messrs. Mitchell, Wilson, Browning and others in favor of the
              allowance, and by Messrs. Friedley, Martin of Putnam, and others, in opposition, Mr.
              CALKINS, of Porter, proposed to amend the report by making the allowance $1,000, and
              requiring Mr. Brett to give bond to return the same if it should turn out that the
              conscience money is not that lost by him.
            The SPEAKER did not entertain the amendment, and then, under the force of the
              previous question, the allowance reported was concurred in--yeas, 50; nays, 34; and it
              was referred to the Committee on Ways and Means, with instructions
              that it be incorporated in the appropriation bill.
            Mr. BROWNING, from the Committee on Claims, reported adversely to
              the claim of the Jeffersonville Railroad Company, for the transportation of United
              States troops and munitions of war.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. TEBBS, from the Committee on Rights, returned his bill, [H. R.
              215,] supplemental to the act of May 14, 1852, in relation to descents and the
              apportionment of estates, recommending its passage.
            Mr. DEPUTY, from the Committee on Rights a Privileges, returned
              bill, [H. R. 262 ] to amend an act to authorize any person caving a flouring mill on
              his land, to make a raceway below his mill, &c., recommending its passage.
            Mr. BRITTON, from the same committee, returned Mr. Taylor's bill, [H. R. 208,] to
              promote the science of medicine and surgery in the State of Indiana, with amendments,
              increasing penalty to $500, inserting "felony, and be imprisoned not exceeding 5
              years;" and "'or the benefit of the Common School fund."
            Mr. BRITTON, from the same committee, returned Mr. Taylor's garnishment bill, [H. R.
              121,] with an amendment: providing that this act, shall not apply to any case of
              garnishment for fraud unsupported by affidavit.
            Mr. BRITTON, from the same committee, returned Mr. Beeler's bill (H. R. 14) to
              provide for a homestead exemption of $1,000, recommending that it be indefinitely
              postponed.
            Mr. BEELER said: To the extent that this bill protects the laborer it will induce
              laborers to come into the State. It is for the protection of the poor man and his
              family--to those who without fault of their own may be reduced to poverty. It does not
              apply to debts of the past, but only to those hereafter contracted. The only question
              was between the exemption of $300 and $1,000. The latter amount would not go a great
              way toward enabling the householder to do something for himself.
            On motion of Mr. CALKINS of Porter, the bill was recommitted with instructions to
              amend by repealing all stay laws and laws giving one year to redeem land sold under
              execution.
          
          
            THE CALENDAR.
            Mr. TEBBS' bill [H. R. 4] in relation to voluntary assignments in trust for the
              benefit of creditors, was considered and parsed the final reading, yeas 68, nays
              10.
            Mr. STONES' individual road work bill, [H. R. 105] was considered, and finally passed
              the House of Representatives, yeas 68, says 12.
            Mr. RHODES' fox bill [H. R. 151] empowering county commissioners to give the bounty,
              was finally passed by the House-yeas 79, nays 4.
          
          
            FIFTH SUPREME COURT JUDGE.
            Mr. NEFF, to accommodate his friend from Madison (Mr. Sansberry), filed his motion to
              reconsider the vote of yesterday,rejecting Mr. McDonald's Fifth Supreme Court Judge
              bill, [H. R. 68 ]
            Mr. SANSBERRY thought the passage of this bill very important to the people at large.
              He held a letter from, the judges of this court stating there are some seven hundred
              cases now pending therein; that about 100 can be heard by each judge in one year. It
              will take three days at least to investigate any case, and for important cases a much
              longer time. Then there must be before this court enough business to occupy the judges
              at least two years. This is a great imposition upon litigants. The State Constitution
              provides that justice should be administered speedily; and especially in this court
              this is important. This court being so far behind makes it also an inducement to
              parties to take up their cases merely to gain time--having no other object in view
              than to keep honest men out of their just dues--hence as the matter now stands it
              encourages litigation on the part of those who do not act honestly; and if the Supreme
              Court were up with its business, I do not believe there would be so many cases carried
              up. And he presented this further case of difficulty where the bench of four judges
              may be equally divided in opinion, and the case must be adjourned to the next term. He
              supposed similar causes to be decided differently in the same county, in the Common
              Pleas and in the Circuit Court, and these causes to be carried up; and thereupon the
              Supreme Judges to divide in opinion; and thus we would have conflicting decisions in
              the same county. Hence the importance of this bill on this account; and hence again he
              inferred the importance of this bill. He  held in
              his hand a memorial from the bar of the State, asking for an increase of the number of
              the judges of the Supreme Court, adopted at a meeting held on the 20th of November,
              1870, recommending the passage of this pending bill, [H. R. 68], and another pending
              bill. He read the memorial, and it is as follows:
            To the General Assembly of the State of Indiana.
            Your memorialists would respectfully urge upon your consideration the importance and
              necessity of an increase in the number of the Judges of the Supreme Court, to the
              limit prescribed by the Constitution.
            The Court was organized with three Judges; and held its first term
              in May, 1817. Its labor in nine years and a half, up to and including the May Term
              1826, is reported in the first volume of Blackford's Reports; a book of four hundred
              and thirty-two pages. From that time until the present Constitution took effect in
              November, 1857, the cases decided are embraced in nine volumes and a half of our
              Reports.
            By the Act of February 19, 1852, the Judges were increased to four, the present
              number.
            The adoption of the new constitution, the introduction of the code, and the
              organization of the Common Pleas Courts, together with the rapid growth and
              development of the State, greatly increased the business of the court. Numerous new
              and difficult questions of constitutional construction, of pleading and of practice
              were the legitimate outgrowth of the new order of things.
            The work of the court in the nineteen years since the adoption of the present
              constitution has resulted in the publication of thirty volumes of reports, including
              the one now in press, averaging same six hundred pages to the volume.
            In the ninety-two counties of the State there are two District Courts, the Circuit
              and the Common Pleas. In addition to these, there are Criminal Courts in nine of the
              counties. From all these courts there is a direct appeal to the Supreme Court.
            These Courts are administered by nineteen Circuit, twenty-four Common Pleas, and
              eight Criminal Court Judges, and the great increase in the number of appeals is,
              doubtless, to some extent, the natural result of the diversity of so many different
              minds thus engaged in the administration of our somewhat complicated judicial
              system.
            There are now over FIVE HUNDRED CAUSES SUBMITTED WITHIN THE LAST YEAR
                AND UNDER ADVISEMENT; enough to engage the attention of the present number of
              judges for more than a year and a half in their consideration, and more than enough to
              make three volumes of reports.
            Experience, we think, has demonstrated that an odd number of judges is best for a
              Court of last resort.
            The Supreme Court of the United States and of twenty-seven out of the thirty-seven
              States are composed of odd numbers. The odd judge not only adds his services, but the
              time spent in consultation is shortened, in avoiding an equally divided court.
            Indiana in wealth and population ranks as the sixth State in the Union.
            There are fourteen States in which the court of last resort numbers more than four
              Judges, seven having five; three having six; three having seven, and one having
              eight.
            Illinois, under her new constitution, has increased the number of the Judges of her
              Supreme Court from three to seven. New York has just increased the working power of
              her Court of Appeals.
            It is conceded that the increase of the number of the Judges of our Supreme Court to
              five will not meet the increase of its business under existing laws, but it is all in
              that direction that can be done under the Constitution. It will at least be a step in
              the discharge of the obligation of the State to provide appropriate means for the
              protection of the rights of her citizens in the efficient and speedy administration of
              her laws.
            This memorial is accompanied by two bills, one increasing the number of the Judges to
              five, the other, redistricting the State under the constitutional provision requiring
              "the State to be divided into as many districts as there are Judges of the Supreme
              Court.
            We pray the speedy passage of these bills.
            JOHN PETTIT, SAMUEL H. BUSKIRK, JAMES L. WORDEN, ROBERT C. GREGORY, JAMES S. FRAZER, J. T. ELLIOTT, CHARLES
              A. RAY, A. C. DOWNEY.
            After further debate by Mr. Ballenger for the reconsideration, by Mr. Browning
              against it and by Mr. Friedley and Taylor in favor of it--crowded out of this limited
              space.
            The House took a recess till 2 o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed at 2 P. M., and announced the question to be on Mr. Neff's motion
              to reconsider the vote of yesterday, rejecting Mr. McDonald's Fifth Supreme Court
              Judge bill [H. R. 68.]
            Mr. COX took the floor in opposition to to the motion; and he made the point that
              this motion was estopped by Mr. Browning's motion yesterday to lay the motion to
              reconsider on the table. He insisted that the action of the House yesterday was not
              taken hastily, but with due deliberation and intent to restrain the tendencies to
              extravagance. He opposed the reconsideration and the bill. It was a measure absolutely
              unnecessary. If the work of the Supreme Court is not done, he would be willing to bear
              his share of the responsibility. He could not refer this anxiety for this bill to any
              other cause than outside pressure.
            Mr. CAUTHORN moved to lay Mr. Neff's motion to reconsider on the table.
            The point made by Mr. Cox resulted in the correction of the journal so as to make it
              that Mr. Browning's motion to reconsider the vote rejecting the bill [H. R. 68] was
              rejected, and then the motion to reconsider was rejected; and thereupon the Speaker
              held that there can be no reconsideration of the Fifth Supreme Court Judge bill.
            Mr. WILSON moved te correct the journal  so as
              to strike out that portion which records the motion to reconsider as rejected.
            The motion was agreed to--yeas, 48; nays, 42.
            Mr. WILSON now moved to reconsider the vote rejecting the bill [H. R 68].
            The SPEAKER decided that the motion is out of order--stating that it was on the
              gentleman's own showing that the motion to reconsider and lay that motion on the table
              is but one motion; and that two motions to reconsider the same matter cannot be
              entertained.
            After debate on the point of order by Messrs. Wilson, Martin of Putnam, Biggs and
              others--
            Mr. WILSON appealed for the decision of the Chair, which was submitted in writing,
              that is to say, "The Speaker having ruled that after the motion to reconsider and to
              lay that motion on the table, having failed in the last sitting, the motion to
              reconsider is not now in order--it being the succeeding day; for which decision we
              most respectfully appeal from the judgment of the Chair to the decision of the House."
              Signed O. M. Wilson and James H. Ruddell.
            The SPEAKER announced the question: Shall the decision of the Chair stand as the
              judgment of the House? And the vote thereon resulted: yes, 48; nays, 45. So the
              decision of the chair was sustained.
            Mr. STRICKLAND desired to call np his motion to reconsider the vote rejecting Mr.
              Defrees bird and game law bill, [H. R. 62] and gave notice that if the motion to
              reconsider should prevail, he would move to recommit the bill for amendment.
            Mr. RUDDELL moved to take up the Senate concurrent resolution, viz: To postpone the
              election of the Agent of State till the 22d of February.
            Mr. STONE submitted a resolution which was read for an order for the same object.
            The SPEAKER. The hour for the joint convention having arrived, no motion can be
              entertained.
            
              IN JOINT CONVENTION--STATE AGENT.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR presiding, said this convention having been called in
                pursuance of a concurrent resolution of the 11th of January for the election of
                Agent of State, (that office not yet having been abolished by law,) nominations are
                in order.
              Mr. Senator BROWN nominated Patrick H. Shannon.
              After two motions--to adjourn to the 22d of Feb., and to adjourn without day; the
                chair sustaining Mr. Brown's point of order against both--
              Mr. Senator GRAY nominated Thomas E. Slaughter.
              The vote thereupon was reported as follows:
              
                
                  Mr. Shannon received...........................
                  70 votes.
                
                
                  Mr. Slaughter received..........................
                  64 votes.
                
              
              The LIEUT. GOVERNOR then declared Mr. Shannon to be elected Agent of State, and
                prorogued the Convention sine die.
            
            
              SINKING FUND DISTRIBUTION.
              The SPEAKER resumed, and announced the consideration of the sinking fund
                distribution bills: Mr. Ruddell's (H. R. 204) and the minority of the committee's
                substitute therefor (H. R. 266)--Mr. Ruddell's original bill, with amendments,
                having been reported on favorably by a majority of the Committee on Ways
                  and Means.
              On motion of Mr. RUDDELL, the substitute and the original bill were read through by
                the Clerk, the question being on the adoption of the substitute.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, moved that 150 copies of the bill and substitute be
                printed.
              Mr. CAUTHORN said the printing was unnecessary. The House was prepared for the
                vote. The difference between the bills is this, that the original bill provides that
                this money shall be loaned here in Indianapolis. The substitute, that it shall be
                taken to the counties, and loaned by those who will best know the parties borrowing,
                the security, &c.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, was opposed to both bills. His proposition was that, in
                effect, the money shall be loaned by the County Auditors, by draft on the State
                Auditor. It obviates the objection to the county officers handling this money, and
                being responsible for it.
              Mr. McDONALD. No use to print these bills. The gentleman from Porter has told us
                all about them.
              The motion to print was rejected.
              Mr. RUDDELL insisted that the bill is on the third and last reading; but the
                history showed that it was being considered on the second reading--amendments being
                pending. He referred the gentlemen to the first Gavin and Hord, p 551, for the
                statutes with reference to the loaning of the school fund by the county officers.
                The county Auditor shall receive two per cent. damage on sales, and three per cent
                on all disbursements of interest; and the county Treasurer shall receive four per
                cent. So that out of the seven per cent. you get, you deduct three per cent to the
                county Auditor and two per cent to the county Treasurer; and then these county
                officers shall receive other fees to be paid by the borrower. This is the law by
                which the substitute here would distribute this fund. Mr. R. then showed the
                security and economy of loaning this fund under the provisions of the college fund
                distribution act by the Auditor of State--the State officers getting no part of the
                interest of 8 per cent. as provided in his bill [H. R. 204,] and the applicant
                procures his loan at an expense of $3 less by loaning through the State Auditor. And
                there was the advantage that the State Auditor, upon application any day in the
                year, can tell the true condition of this fund, and the Auditor is all the time
                under the surveillance of the other State officers, and especially of the
                Superintendent of Public Instruction, whose especial duty it is to look after this
                funds and its proceeds. If the old commissioners of the sinking fund found it wise
                to abandon the county loan system and adopt the college fund system, would it not be
                wise for the General Assembly to profit bye their experience. In addition to his
                adver-  tisment in the central State papers, we
                require the State Auditor to give prompt official notice to each of the County
                Auditors of his county's distributive share; that the money shall be loaned in 90
                days; it may be invested in county bonds, State or United States bonds--at all
                events it must and shall be loaned a fund to be applied to the education of the
                children of the State. Under the provisions of the substitute, he showed that
                $80,000 would be paid to the county officers, who are now too well paid.
              Mr. CAUTHORN admitted that this fund of $60,000 had been in the hands of sharp
                financiers, getting perhaps 6 per cent for its use, and putting it into their own
                pockets, As between the two propositions he preferred the substitute--giving the
                loaning to the ninety-two County Auditors. He would rather trust to ninety two than
                to one man. The gentleman says it would be safer in the hands of the Auditor. Does
                the State Auditor know as well, or can he judge as well of the man and the security
                offered as can the County Auditor?
              Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, followed on the same side, in favor of the substitute,
                because the County Auditor could decide better as to the borrower and the security;
                and because the loans can be made in sums not exceeding $300. He objected to the
                expensiveness of the process of borrowing of the Auditor. That difficulty would be
                obviated by loaning by the County Auditors. To pass the original bill would be to
                throw this money into the hands of capitalists. The gentleman's argument seemed to
                assume that the money loaded by the County Auditors would have to be collected by
                suit. To collect by that process, through the State Auditor, would be still more
                expensive.
              Mr. DAVIDSON inclined at first to favor the original bill, but objected to 90 days
                limitation, fearing that it was a loop-hole through which the distribution to the
                people would be defeated. He dissented from the opinion, that the borrowers of the
                school fund were limited to $300 they might borrow the extent of $1,000, and he
                showed the statute. He would prefer also that the money should be drawn from the
                State Auditor by checks. As the matter stands he preferred the substitute.
              Mr. DEFREES also preferred the proposition to loan through the County Auditors,
                because the borrower would be at greater expense and uncertainty in making his
                application to the State Auditor. Then the County Auditor knows better the persons
                and the security presented by the borrowers; and if the money is idle the State
                Auditor could have no superior claim to the custody. He proposed an amendment.
              Mr. RUDDELL, The question is on a report from a committee. It is not amendable.
              Mr. BALLENGER demanded the previous question, and under its pressure--the report of
                the minority of the committee recommending the passage of the substitute [E. R. 266]
                was concurred in--yeas 78, nays 15, as follows:
              
                
                  
                    YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Ballenger, Barnaby, Biggs, Britton,
                      Browning, Bruner, Butterworth, Caldwell, Calkins of Fulton, Calkins of Porter,
                      Cauthorn, Coggswell, Curtis, Davidson, Detrees, Deputy, Devol, Donham,
                      Friedley, Furnas, Gallentine, Goble, Guthrie, Hardly, Hartley, Hawley, Haynes.
                      Heilman, Henderson, Hendry, Hill, Hynes, Kennedy, Kirkpatrick, Knight, Lines,
                      Major, Martin of Wayne, Martin of Putnam, McDonald, McFarland, McGowan,
                      Minich, Miles, Millikan, Monroe, Montgomery, Myers, Neff, Netherton, Oatley,
                      Ray, Rawles, Rhodes, Rice, Sabin, Sayers, Simpson, Shutt, Snodgrass, Stephens,
                      St. John Strickland, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Tebbs, Walker, Washburn, Warrum,
                      White, Wood, Woodward, Zenor and Mr. Speaker--78.
                    NAYS--Messrs. Beeler. Conner, Copner, Cox, Cunningham,
                      Gentry, Gordon of Boone, Gordon of Cass, Hooker, Ruddell, Stansberry,
                      Stephenson. Stone, Taylor, Wilson and Wymer--15.
                  
                
              
              So the substitute, [3. R 266], was adopted--Mr. Taylor explaining his vote, said
                the views expressed by the gentleman from Tippecanoe (Mr. Davidson), were exactly
                his views on this subject. I think that the bill reported on favorably by the
                majority of the Commutes with amendments, is the better bill of the two. Therefore,
                I vote no.
              The bill was then read the second time.
              Mr. RUDDELL proposed to amend by providing that the amount of interest shall be
                disbursed by the County Auditors and Treasurers without diminution.
              It was adopted by consent.
              Mr. HARDIN proposed to make the rate of interest 7 per cent. instead of 8.
              It was rejected--yeas 9, nays 82.
              Mr. DEFREES proposed to strike out the words "children listed for common school
                purposes" and insert in lieu these words, "inhabitants according to the late
                census."
              The amendment was taken by consent; and then the bill, as amended, was ordered to
                be engrossed.
              The House then adjourned.
              CORRECTION.--Mr. Netherton desires it to be recorded that his
                affirmative vote yesterday on that branch of the Cauthorn resolution which declared
                a vacancy in the Laporte county representation was given under protest against the
                action of the House just then taken, as he explained at the time, which, together
                with the explanations of many others, were crowded out of these columns.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            THURSDAY, February 9, 1871.
          
          The Lieutenant Governor commanded order at ten o'clock A. M.
          Prayer was made by the Rev. H. C. Allen, of the Presbyterian Church.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday 's proceedings were read.
          
            MESSAGES FROM THE GOVERNOR.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR desired to lay before the Senate a message from the Governor, in
              response to a resolution calling for a statement of the amount of money drawn and paid
              out by him for house rent during his term of office.
            Mr. GLESSNER moved that two hundred copies be printed, and that it he referred to the
                Committee on Fees and Salaries.
            The motion was agreed to.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR also laid before the Senate a message transmitting the reports of
              chaplains of the State prisons.
            Also a message correcting an error in the biennial message of the Governor in
              relation to failure on the part of County Auditors to make reports as required by the
              State Board of Equalization--in relation to the reduction in value of taxable property
              on tax duplicates--some $11,000,494 38 instead of fifteen millions.
            They were referred to the appropriate committees.
          
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. ANDREWS presented a petition from Scott county, praying for a law suppressing
              traffic in intoxicating liquors.
            Mr. CAVEN presented a claim.
            Mr. ROSEBROUGH presented a petition from Prosecuting Attorneys of Ripley county
              praying an increase of judicial salaries.
            They were appropriately referred.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. HOOPER, from the Judiciary Committee, returned the bill [S. 80] relating to
              appeals to the Supreme Court, with a favorable report--Mr. Glessner dissenting.
            Mr. BROWN, from the Committee on Corporation, returned the bill
              [S. 141] to amend section 17 of the general city incorporation law, approved March 14,
              1887, with a favorable recommendation.
            Mr. WOOD, from the same committee, returned the bill [S. 156] amending sections 2 and
              4 of the Loan Fund Association act of March 5, 1857, with a similar report. These
              reports go to the files.
            Mr. HUBBARD, from the same committee, returned the bill [S. 190] to amend sections 63
              and 69 of the general city incorporation law with an adverse report--that it lie on
              the table. The report was concurred in.
            Mr. KEIGWIN, from the Committee on Public Printing, returned the
              resolution in relation to a further subscription for daily papers, and with regard to
              the employment of an official reporter, with an adverse report.
            On motion it was laid on the table.
            Mr. HENDERSON, from the Committee on Fees and salaries, returned
              the bill [S. 155] to enforce the collection of fees taxed against convicts with a
              recommendation that it lie on the table.
            The report was concurred in.
          
          
            SWAMP LAND FUND.
            Mr. WILLIAMS, from tho Committee on Swamp Lands returned the bill
              [S. 115] to distribute to the counties from whence it was collected the Swamp Lands
              Fund now in the State Treasury. He said the officers of the Treasury reserved a
              certain amount of the fund received from each county for expenses, and now there was a
              surplus, after all expenses are paid, which should be distributed.
            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS his bill [S. 115] was read the second time.
            He moved, ineffectually, that the constitutional resolution be dispensed with--yeas
              31, nays 4--two thirds not voting in the affirmative that the bill may be pressed to
              its final reading.
            Mr. DWIGGINS, moved the reference of the bill so the Committee on the
                Judiciary, with instructions to inquire whether this fund does not belong
              to the school fund.
            Mr. GREEN objected to this reference--there can be no possible way by which this fund
              can get into the school fund.
            Mr. MARTINDALE would rather see this fund go into the common school fund than that it
              shall be managed as heretofore.
            Mr. WILLIAMS read the law under which the fund was raised, and declared its provis-
                 ions must be complied with before a dollar can
              go in to the school fund.
            Mr. HOOPER moved to amend by changing the reference to the Committee on
                Claims.
            Mr. DWIGGINS stated that many warrants under the law were issued for which no
              consideration was given; and more patents were granted for swamp lands in Jasper
              county than were there. His motion to refer was agreed to.
          
          
            CLERK FOR COMMITTEES.
            Mr. KEIGWIN offered a resolution that the Committee on Prisons,
                Printing, Public Buildings and Military Affairs, be allowed a clerk--one
              clerk for all.
            At the request of Mr. DWIGGINS, the Committee on Temperance was
              added.
            The resolution as modified was adopted.
          
          
            INDIANA STOCKS.
            Mr. MARTINDALE offered a joint resolution [S. 9] directing the disposition to be made
              of certain Indiana five per cent bonds or stocks now in the custody of the Secretary
              of the Treasury of the United States--to be so cancelled as to prevent their being put
              in circulation, sent to Indianapolis and destroyed in the presence of a joint
              committee of the two Houses.
            Mr. MARTINDALE gave a history of these bonds. They were the property of a Virginian,
              were confiscated, sold, &c., afterward the owner established his loyalty to the
              government; the sale was set aside, Congress paid back half the money on condition
              that he would deliver the bonds to the Treasurer of the United States subject to the
              order of the Legislature of Indiana, and the Secretary of the Treasury informs the
              Governor that these bonds are there subject to the order of the Legislature.
            The joint resolution passed the Senate by yeas 37, nays 0.
          
          
            TRUSTEES.
            On motion by Mr. BRADLEY, his bill [S. 53] to authorize trustees to sell real estate,
              and to invest the proceeds of sales for the benefit of their c'est qui
                trust, was taken up, the constitutional restriction dispensed with--yeas 36,
              nays 0--the bill read by title only and then by sections, and then passed by yeas 36,
              nays 0.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The following described bills were introduced, read the first time and severally
              passed to the second reading:
            By Mr. GLESSNER, a bill [S. 197] creating the 26th Judicial District, composed of the
              counties of Shelby, Bartholomew and Johnson.
            Mr. G. moved for a dispensation to read the bill again, and the roll was being
              called, but on the suggestion of Mr. Martindale that the vote may show no quorum, the
              motion was withdrawn.
            By Mr. STEELE, a bill [S. 198] in relation to orphan asylums and the children
              entrusted to their charge. Officers of such asylums shall be deemed to be guardians,
              having power to indenture the children, &c.
            By Mr. STEELE, a bill and accompanying petition [S. 199] to provide for the
              registration of births, marriages and deaths in the State of Indiana. Township
              Assessors to make a record of the same.
            By Mr. KEIGWIN, a bill [S. 200] to fix the liability of express companies for the
              loss of packages or parts of packages entrusted to their joint carriage.
            By Mr. KEIGWIN, a bill [S 201] to amend the practice act of June 18, 1852. No
              attorney shall be accepted as security on any bond in any suit where he is employed as
              counsel.
            By Mr. GRAY, a bill [S. 202] to amend the witness act--to allow parties to criminal
              suits to testify.
            By Mr. TAYLOR, a bill [S. 203] fixing the weights of salted or cured fish and
              regulating the sales thereof. Net weights of salted or cured fish: Two hundred pounds
              to one barrel, one hundred pounds to one-half barrel, fifty pounds to one-quarter
              barrel, twenty five pounds to one-eighth barrel or kit. "It shall be unlawful to sell
              any salted or cured fish by the barrel, half barrel, quarter barrel or kit, unless
              there shall be marked or branded thereon the kind, grade or quality and the net weight
              of the fish therein contained." Any person violating the provisions of this act shall
              be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined in any sum not
              exceeding fifty dollars.
            And then came the recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at 2 o'clock P. M.
            On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE the Senate resolved itself into the Committee of the
              Whole--Mr. Gray in the chair, for the purpose of reporting the fee and salary bills
              Nos. 3 and 4 back to the Senate.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved that these bills be reported back without recommendation.
            The motion was agreed to, and--
            The CHAIRMAN reported according to order.
            The report was concurred in, and the committee was discharged from their further
              consideration.
            The bills go to the files.
            
              WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
              On motion by Mr. GREEN, his bill [S. 180] declaring public squares so marked to be
                a grant for common school purposes in certain cases, was read by title and referred
                to the Committee on Corporations.
              On motion by Mr. DWIGGINS his bill to prevent the cutting of timber, was referred
                to the Judiciary Committee.
              On motion by Mr. WOOD, his bill, S. 185, declaring the meaning of the railroad aid
                law of May 12, 1869, was referred to the Committee on
                  Corporations.
              On motion of Mr. TAYLOR, his bill, S. 174, conserning county and township aid to
                railroads, was read by title and referred to the Committee on
                  Railroads.
            

            

            
              NAVIGATION OF WESTERN RIVERS.
              Mr. CARNAHAN, by leave, offered a joint resolution, [S 10,] in favor of the passage
                of an act by Congress to extend the jurisdiction of the Light House Board so as to
                include the Mississippi, Missouri and Ohio rivers--to arrange these rivers into one
                or more light house districts.
              It was passed the Senate by yeas 37, nays 0.
            
            
              WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
              On motion of Mr. JOHNSTON--
              The bill [S. 162] authorizing reassessment of lands in certain cases;
              The bill [S. 164] to make provisions for care of the Insane;
              The bill [S. 165] to amend the act organizing County Boards;
              The bill [S. 166] in relation to taxing lands in towns;
              The bill [S. 167] to amend the city incorporation law;
              The bill [S. 168] prescribing duties and pay of county officers;
              The bill [S. 169] amending the prison laws;
              The bill [S. 170] to legalize acts of Council of Bluffton;
              The bill [S. 171] concerning the Governor's rent;
              The bill [S. 176] concerning harbor lots;
              The bill [S. 177] relating to express companies as common carriers;
              The bill [S. 178] authorizing the construction of levees and drains;
              The bill [S. 179] to prevent selling or giving away intoxicating liquors;
              The bill [S. 181] relating to salaries of officers;
              The bill [S. 182] amending section 2 of the act relating to the Baptist Educational
                Society;
              The bill [S. 183] amending section 108 of the Common School law;
              The bill [S. 184] concerning liquor sellers;
              The bill [S. 186] regulating running of locomotives.
              The bill [S. 187] relating process on railroad companies.
              The bill [S.189] concerning marriages in Society of Friends.
              The bill [S. 190] creating Posey and Vanderburg in a Judicial Circuit.
              The bill [S. 191] fur the erection of a State House.
              The bill [S. 193] fixing Common Pleas Court terms in Greece and other counties.
              The bill [S. 196] for Senatorial and Representorial apportionment.
              The bill [S. 195] animals running at large.
              Were severally read by title and referred to the appropriate committees.
              Mr. TAYLOR asked and obtained consent for Mr. Miller to withdraw from the files his
                bill [S. 172] defining certain misdemeanors.
              On motion of Mr. GLESSNER the constitutional restriction was dispensed with, and
                his bill [S. 197] creating the Twenty-sixth Judicial District was read by title and
                referred to the Committee on the Organization of Courts.
            
            
              ABOLISHMENT OF COMMON PLEAS AND CRIMINAL COURTS.
              Mr. DENBO called up the special order for this hour, being the consideration of the
                bill [S. 144] to abolish the Common Pleas and Criminal Circuit Courts.
              Mr. BRADLEY moved its reference to a special committee of eleven.
              Mr. DENBO preferred its consideration now. It is an important bill, and one of
                great interest to the people of the State.
              The motion to refer was agreed to.
              Mr. BRADLEY moved to reconsider the vote on the passage of the bill [S. 65]
                regulating descents and the apportionment of estates.
              The motion was agreed to, and it goes on the files.
              On motion of Mr. TAYLOR, his bill [S.90] amending the city incorporation act, was
                taken from the table and placed on the files.
            
            
              LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
              Mr. Case obtained leave of absence till Tuesday evening from to-morrow morning.
              Mr. Beggs' leave of absence was extended till Monday.
              Mr. Armstrong and Mr. Wadge had leave of absence till to morrow evening.
            
            
              FEES AND SALARIES.
              On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE, the bills S 3 and 4 were referred back to the
                  Committee on Fees and Salaries.
            
            
              COMMERCIAL LAWS.
              The House concurrent resolution referring the memorial of business men of Indiana
                (printed on pages 239 and 240) to a joint committee, was agreed to.
              The Lieutenant Governor makes the committee on the part of the Senate to consist of
                Messrs. Martindale, Bradley, Francisco, and Bird.
            
            
              THE FEDERAL CAPITAL.
              The House concurrent resolution concerning the removal of the national capital
                (introduced in the House on January 27th), requesting and instructing Indiana's
                Representatives to vote against all improvements of buildings by the Federal
                Government at Washington, and use all proper means to effect the removal of the
                capital to where it will be more central, &c., was read and agreed to.
            
            
              WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
              The bill [H. R. 265] to amend the act fixing the compensation of State Agent;
                and-The bill [H. R. 79] to extend the time for the completion of certain railroads;
                Were read by title only and referred to appropriate committees.
            
            
              HOUSE BILLS ON THE FIRST READING.
              The bill [H. R. 105] allowing persons to make certain improvements on the public
                highways.
              The bill [H. R. 88] making a coroner's jury to consist of six persons. The bill [H.
                R. 72] amending the act concening promissory notes.
              The bill [H. R. 67] amending section 5 of the act concerning mortgages--concerning
                satisfaction.
              The bill [H. R 237] providing for filling vacancies in the Board of Trustees of the
                State University.
              [Mr. JOHNSTON made an ineffectual motion--yeas, 31; nays 33--to dispense with the
                restriction, that the bill may be advanced on the calendar.]
              The bill [H. R. 75] making illegal and void all contracts for the payment of
                attorney's fees.
              The bill [H. R. 151] to discourage the destruction of foxes; and--
              The bill [H. R. 4] relative to voluntary assignments.

              

              Were partially read the first time and passed to the second reading.
            
            
              GRAVEL AND OTHER ROADS.
              Mr. Glessner's bill, [S. 119], supplemental to the act authorizing assessments for
                plank, gravel or macadamized road purposes, coming up, with the committee amendments
                thereto, they were concurred in, and the bill was read the second time.
              Mr. GREGG moved to amend by exempting from the provisions of the bill any suit now
                pending.
              Mr BIRD moved to indefinitely postpone the bill.
              Mr ROBINSON resisted the motion. His county, and many others, are largely
                interested in the bill. He recited the history of legislation on this subject, and
                showed the necessity for the passage of the bill in his locality. He opposed the
                amendment because it would defeat the object of the bill.
              Mr. BEESON also opposed the motion to postpone the bill. The gravel road interest
                is one of most vital importance to the people of his county. Under a technical
                decision of the supreme Court many of these works are now awaiting legislation of
                this kind. The prosperity and progress of improvement in our road system will be
                retarded for years to come unless this or a similar measure be passed. We could
                commit probably no greater mistake than to refuse to pass this bill. He also opposed
                the amendment, declaring it to be one that would destroy the effect of the bill.
              Mr. GREGG desired the motion to postpone should prevail. If we attempt to legalize
                all the errors and frauds committed by turnpike companys throughout the State, we
                would be doing great injustice to the people of the State of Indiana. It would seem
                to be the object of this bill to legislate out of existence pending law suits; and
                that kind of legislation has been frequently deprecated on this floor. The old rule
                that corporations are bound to a strict construction of the law under which they are
                organized has been adhered to by the Supreme Court. No new rule has been put in
                force as against them. Will the Senate legislate for turnpike companies and against
                the people, or will we say "we turn you over to the courts, and if you have made
                blunders that is your fault and not ours?" The number interested against the passage
                of this bill is greater than that interested in these corporations.
              Mr. GREEN spoke in praise of the gravel road laws of the State, and to strike them
                down now, he contended, would be ruinous to the country. This bill is not a measure
                to cure frauds, but to protect the innocent and the honest farmers along the lines
                of those roads who have paid in their money and desire to see the roads completed.
                The amendment proposed was certainly most objectionable.
              Mr. STEELE looked upon these roads as being to the great body politic what the
                frame of the human body is to the natural body--as veins that are supplying the
                great arteries built by the monopolies of the country. These corporations are poor,
                and it is for that reason they apply here for legislation to aid them in their great
                enterprises. He argued in favor of the bill and against the amendment proposed by
                the Senator from Dearborn, [Mr. Gregg].
              Mr. GREGG declared that these road companies were dealing unjustly with the great
                mass of the people, and cautioned gentlemen not to go too fast in this matter. All
                he asked for was earnest and careful legislation in this interest which so closely
                affected such a great number of the people of Indiana.
              Mr. WOOD called attention to the fact that under existing laws it is made the duty
                of these corporations to assess lands within one and a half miles of the road on
                either side, and under a recent decision of the Supreme Court if they omit to assess
                the smallest particle of land it invalidates the charter. And he desired Senators
                particularly to notice that these assessors of benefits are not the officers of the
                corporation; their assessment is the act of the representatives of the people for
                they are appointed by the County Commissioners; and now, is it fair and just that
                all the acts of the road shall be invalidated--that the large amounts of money
                expended by these companies shall go for nought just because these representatives
                of the people have failed to do their duty?
              Mr. BIRD referred to the existing laws on this subject, and their operations in his
                locality. His constituents considered the law or 1867 an odious law--it is one very
                obnoxious to the people, he represented. If gentlemen are so anxious to build gravel
                roads, they can operate under, and every facility is afforded them, by the law of
                1839. He expressed himself as in favor of building roads, but was opposed to
                favoring corporations that will pull down and make poor one class of our population,
                and build up and make another class wealthy.
              Mr. BEESON appealed to the Senator [Mr. Bird] to withdraw his motion and let the
                amendment be voted on.
              Mr. BIRD assented.
              The amendment [Mr. Gregg's] was rejected by yeas 15, nays 19.
              The bill was then ordered engrossed for the third reading.
            
            
              ABOLISHMENT OF COMMON PLEAS AND CRIMINAL COURTS.
              The LIEUT. GOVERNOR makes the special committee of eleven to which was referred the
                bill [S. 144] to abolish the Common Pleas and Criminal Circuit Courts, to consist of
                Messrs. Fuller, of the First district; Denbo, (chairman) of the Second district;
                Rosebrugh, of the Third; Beeson, of the Fourth: Caven, of the Fifth; Scott, of the
                Sixth; Wood, of the Seventh; Green, of the Eighth; Bobo, of the Ninth; Hooper, of
                the Tenth; and Bradley, of the Eleventh district.
              The Senate adjourned till 10 o'clock tomorrow.
            
          
        

        

        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            THURSDAY, February 9, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M. the order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. Ingsrsoll.
          The journal of yesterday was read and approved--till on motion of Mr. RAWLES, the
            further reading was dispensed with.
          Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, correcting the journal in this: That the Judiciary Committee'e
            report to table his justices act supplementary bill [H. R. 171] was not concurred in. In
            his remarks theron yesterday he should have been reported as snying, not that the
            justices may have the powers of the Sheriff, but of the Common Pleas, so far as his
            jurisdiction extends.
          On motion of Mr. STRICKLAND, the vote rejecting Mr. Defrees' Bird and Game bill [H. R.
            62] was reconsidered; and the bill was recommitted to the Committe on
              Rights and Privileges with instructions to amend by striking out that part,
            which relates to Birds and Game, and retain that which relates to fish--leaving out the
            exceptions as to the Ghio and St. Joseph rivers.
          Mr. COX corrected these reports of yesterday in this: He voted aye on the Sinking Fund
            distribution bill.
          Mr. RUDDELL also corrected a statement of figures in his remarks on that subject.
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. RUDDELL, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges, returned
              Mr. Heilman's bill [H. R. 254] to amend the 17th section of the landlord and tenant
              act, recommending that it be laid on the table.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. RUDDELL, from the same committee, returned Mr. White's trespassing animals bill
              [H. R. 256] with amendments, inserting: and give approved replevin bond, etc.,
              recommending its passage.
            Mr. HAYNES, from the same committee, returned Mr. Copner's alien real estate bill [H.
              R. 149], recommending its passage. And he also returned from the same committee Mr.
              Ballenger's repeal bill [H. R. 281], recommending its passage.
            Mr BROWNING, from the Committee on Railroads, returned the
              petition of S. Taylor and others for the repeal of the railroad tax law, recommending
              that it ha referred to the special committee (Mr. Stone's) on that subject matter;
              also that the memorial of Hiram. J. Pratt and others, and that it take the same
              reference.
            The report was concurred in.
          
          
            CITY RAILROAD AID.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Committee on Railroads, returned Mr.
              Watson's cities' railroad aid bill [H. R. 182] recommending that it be laid on the
              table.
            Mr. RUDDELL and Mr. WILSON stated that the bill provides for the aid of cities
              (rolling stock) to railroads which do not run into them.
            Mr. MACK (Mr. Martin, of Putnam,in the Chair) stated his individual opinion of the
              sufficiency of the present law; but there was a difference of opinion among lawyers.
              On a question submitted to him by the Common Council of his city he had given his
              opinion that the aid could be given. And there was a decision of the Supreme Court
              sustaining in a case in which the city of Madison was concerned. But he understood
              that, the attorneys of this city take a different view. And, therefore, as it could do
              no harm, he desired to see the bill pass.
            Mr. STEPHENSON said that, under the general railroad law, cities could aid railroads
              which do not run into them by such roads connecting with other roads which do run into
              such cities. But as there was conflict of opinion in the matter, he advised the
              passage of the bill, as it could hurt no one, and might assist in the development of
              the resources of the State.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, hoped the report would be concurred in. I am opposed to any
              law calling upon unwilling contributors to aid any private corporation. The segacity
              of business men will soon enough see what is for the benefit of themselves and their
              property ; and it they see proper to build these roads let them do it under the
              privileges they have.
            Mr. BIGGS hoped that the report would not be concurred in. In cases where then is no
              law, it leaves the question to be decided by a majority of citizens.
            Mr. COX demanded the previous question, and under its force the report was concurred
              in by the following vote:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Britton, Browning, Bruner,
                    Butterworth, Caldwell, Calkins of Porter, Cauthorn, Conner, Cunningham, Curtis,
                    Davidson, Donham, Furnas, Galletine, Goble, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Hawley,
                    Henderon, Hendry, Hynes, Major, Martin of Wayne, Martin of Putnam, McDonald,
                    McGowan, Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff, Oatley, Ray, Rawles, Rice, Simpson, Shutt,
                    Snodgrass, Stevens, St. John, Tarlton. Taughinbaugh, Tebbs, Walker, Washburn,
                    Warrum and Zenor--47.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Calkins of Fulton,
                    Conner, Cox, Defrees, Deputy, Devol, Friedley, Gordon of Boone, Gordon of Cass,
                    Haynes, Heilman, Hill, Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Knight, Lines,
                    McDowell, McFarland, Minich, Millikan, Monroe, Myers, Netherton, Rhodes,
                    Ruddell, Sabin, Sayers, Stephenson, Stone, Strickland, Taylor, White, Williams,
                    Wilson, Wood, Woodward, Wymer and Mr. Speaker--43.
                
              
            
            Mr. KING from the Committee on Railroads returned Mr. Martin of
              Putnam's bill [H. R. 244] to establish the maximum rates of railroad charges,
              recommending that it be indefinitely postponed, as a bill already reported proposed
              the relief sought. The report was concurred in.
            Mr. MINICH from the Committee on Railroads returned the resolution
              of the House in relation to railroad taxation, with a recommendation that it be
              referred to the Committee (Mr. Stone's) on that subject.
            Mr. BROWNING from the Railroad Committee returned Mr. McDowell's railroads rate bill
              [H. R. 73] recommending that it be indefinitely postponed as a bill already reported
              proposes the relief.
            These reports were concurred in.
            Mr. BROWNING, from the Railroad Committee, returned the E. B. Shanks railroad
              petition, which he subsequently withdrew.
            Mr. ZENOR, from the Committee on Coun- 
                ty and Township Business, returned Mr. Browning's bill [H. R. 210] for
              depositories for the public moneys, recommending its passage.
            Mr. BRUNER, from the same committee, returned the bill amendatory of the supervisors
              act with a substitute therefor.
            Mr. DONHAM, from the Committee on Agriculture, returned Mr.
              Oatley's bill to prevent obstructions in streams of water, etc , recommending its
              passage.
            Mr. SHUTT, from the same committee, returned Mr. Washburn's [H. R. 216] for
              protection of fur bearing animals, recommending its indefinite postponement, which was
              concurred in.
            Mr. FURNAS, from the same committee, returned Mr. Minich's Geological Survey
              appropriation bill [H. R. 162] with an amendment: "And the State Board of Agriculture
              shall elect and the Governor shall appoint." He also returned his own bill [H. R. 94]
              creating the office of Entomologists with an amendment, inserting the same words.
            Mr. BEELER, from the same commitee, returned the bill to amend the act to encourage
              the destruction of wolves, recommending its indefinite postponment.
            The report was concurred in.
            He also returned Mr. Netherton's resolution for a list of products to which no
              standard weight is affixed--submitting the list called for.
            Mr. FURNAS, from the same committee, returned the resolution of the House in relation
              to sluggish streams of water--as matter already provided for by bill.
            Mr. MINICH, from the Committee on Benevolent Institution, returned
              the memorial relative to H. F. Leavit's charge against the officers for the Hospital
              of the Insane, reporting that said officers admit the charge are ready to refund the
              money.
            Mr. WILSON said: There has been no opportunity for settlement--no entry of the matter
              made on the steward's books.
            Mr. MINICH, from the same Committee, returned the memorial of Israel Taylor, for a
              $1,300 charge for a design for the house for juvenile offenders, recommending that it
              be laid on the table.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. DEFREES from the same Committee, returned the petition of A. E. Smith finding no
              foundation for the charges therein preferred. It was laid on the table.
            Mr. BALLENGER, from the Committee on Corporations, returned Mr.
              Hendry's bill [H. R. 174] to exempt fire companies from execution, recommending its
              indefinite postponment.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. NEFF, from the same committee, returned Mr. McDowell's Bluffton charter amendment
              bill [H. R. 202] recommending its passage.
            Mr. BROWNING, from the same committee, returned Mr. Major's street improvement bill
              recommending a substitute therefor.
            The SPEAKER announced Mr. Davidson appointed to serve on the Committee on
                Canals in the place of Mr. Ray.
            Mr. WHITE, from the Committee on Cities and Towns, returned Mr.
              Heilman's Evansville charter amendment bill [H. R. 196] recommending that it be laid
              on the table.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. McGOWAN, from the same committee, returned Mr. Taughinbaugh's streets improvement
              bill, [H. R. 159] recommending its passage.
            The SPEAKER announced the special committee on Mr. Taylor's
                resolution, namely: Messrs. Taylor, Cox, Rhodes, Miles, King, Zenor, Wood
              and Britton.
            Also, the special committee on certain memorials, with
              accompanying bills: Messrs. Cauthorn, Defrees, Sansberry and Stone.
            Mr. Stone asked for a clerk for the Committee on the subject of equalization
                of railroad taxes, which was accorded by consent.
            Mr. GORDON of Boone, from the Committee on Insurance, returned Mr.
              Barnaby's insurance bill, [H. R. 163] recommending its passage.
            Mr. ST. JOHN, from the Committee on Insurance, returned Mr.
              Caldwell's bill [H. R. 164] to regulate the policies of life insurance, recommending
              that it be laid on the table.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. MITCHELL, from the Committee on Education, returned Mr.
              Major's bill, [H. R. 25] to amend section 17 of the Common School law, recommending
              that it be laid on the table.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. ABBETT, from the Committee on Education, returned Mr. Tebbs'
              bill, [H. R. 97] of the Common School law, (in regard to the erection of school
              houses), recommending its passage.
            Mr. BIGGS, from the Committee on Education, returned Mr. Martin of
              Wayne's school bill (H. R. 153), recommending that it be laid on the table.
            Mr. RUDDELL, from the Committee on Education, returned Mr.
              Browning's bill (H. R. 118) to amend section 31 of the common school law, recommending
              that it be laid on the table.
            Mr. DEFREES, from the Committee on Education, returned Mr.
              Hardin's resolution for inquiry as to the propriety of prohibiting those having no
              children from voting with respect to school teachers, recommending that it be laid on
              the table.
            The reports were severally concurred in.
            Mr. GUTHRIE, from the Committee on Education, returned Mr.
              Netherton's bill [H. R. 195] to amend sections 34 and 35 of the common school law,
              recommending that it be indefinitely postponed.
            Mr. NETHERTON spoke against concurrence in the report, calling attention to the
              several points of amendment which the bill proposes to sections 34 and 35 of the
              common school law. 1. All applicants for license must be examined at the county seats.
              2. The bill provides for a certain time for holding these examinations, the last
              Satuarday in each month. 3. With reference to the  qualifications of teachers the bill provides that the they shall be examined on the
              eight branches of learning prescribed by law Mr. N. inveighed against the law allowing
              teachers to be examined and licensed with reference to a less number of branches. 4.
              If a majority of the patrons of the school desire additional branches to be taught,
              their teacher shall be examined and receive his license with respect to such
              additional learning. Mr. N. spoke against that provision of law under which teachers
              may have license if they pass examination, or sixty-five per cent. of the branches
              taught, showing that it introduces into the school houses teachers with six months
              license, keeping out, better qualified persons. He especially desired that the remedy
              for this abuse of the law, by the six months license, which is provided foa in his
              bill might be preserved. His bill provides that 12,18 and 25 months shall be the terms
              of teachers' licence, and that not less than 65 per cent of proficiency, shall secure
              license the general average being 75 per cent.
            Mr CUNNINGHAM spoke in favor of concurrence in the report of the Committee--defending
              the existing provisions of the common school law, and protesting especially against
              giving the college bred a monopoly of the places of teachers in the common schools as
              an intraction of the natural rights of citizens.
            Mr NETHERTON rejoined, and Mr. Cunningham spoke again, and then The House refused to
              concur in the report of the Committee.
            Mr. BALLENGER, from the Committee on Education, returned the
              memorial presented by Mr. Cauthorn with regard to grading teachers' licenses,
              recommending that it be laid on the table.
            Mr. RUDDELL, from, the Committee on Education, returned Mr. Hynes'
              school bill, [H. R. 189], recommending that it be laid on the table.
            These reports were concurred in.
            Mr. BALLENGER, from the Committee on Education, returned Mr.
              Ruddell's bill, [H. R. 183] authorizing cities, towns and townships to negotiate bonds
              for school building purposes, recommending that it pass.
            Mr. RUDDELL, from the Committee on Education, returned Mr. Major's
              bill, [H. R. 104], defining the powers and duties of township trustees in relation to
              building graded school houses, recommending that it pass.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Committee on Education, returned Mr.
              Cunningham's bill, [H. R. 130], for appropriating $13 60 to the permanent school fund,
              recommending that it be laid on the table.
            Mr. DE FREES, from the Committee on Education, returned the
              resolution grading teachers and salaries, recommending that it be laid on the
              table.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Committee on Education, returned Mr.
              Cunningham's bill [H. R. 92] to amend sections 125 and 133 of the common school law,
              recommending that it be indefinitely postponed--
            These reports were severally concurred in.
            Mr. TEBBS, from the select committee on the bill to amend section 132 of the act
              creating the 26th Judicial Circuit and fixing the times of courts in the fourth
              circuit with an amendment: "In the county of Franklin on the first, Mondays in April
              and October."
            Mr. WOOD, from the select committee on Mr. Calkins', of Porter, bill [H. R 104]
              prescribing the court times in the Ninth Circuit, recommending its passage--for which
              he moved a suspension of the constitutional restrictions--in which motion also Mr.
              Tebbs moved to include his court bill [H. R 167] fixing the times of courts in the
              Fourth Circuit--and the restrictions being removed, Mr. Cauthorn's court bill was
              finally passed by yeas 84, nays none, and Mr. Tebbs' court bill [H. R. 167] with an
              amendment, was finally passed, yeas 87, nays none.
            Mr. RUDDELL, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges, returned
              Mr Defrees' game law bill [H. R. 62]. with amendment, striking out all but the
              provisions for the protection of fish, and repealing conflicting laws, and excepting
              the Ohio river, the penalty not exceeding $50.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, entered a motion to reconsider a vote of the House, concurring
              in the judiciary report on the compensation of certain employees of the
              doorkeeper.
            Mr ABBETT'S bill [E. R 122], to appropriate $150 for the distribution of the report
              of the Superintendent of Public Instruction coming up in order,
            Mr TEBBS caused a letter from the Superintended to be read, stating that he finds
              that his report could be distributed for $175; and he hoped the House would allow the
              amount to be increased to that sum.
            Mr. McDONALD objected, and submitted a preamble and resolution rehearsing the items
              of the cost of said report for 1871, amounting to $10,000, and instructing the
                Committee on public expenditures to investigate the matters with
              full powers, and report, by what authority the Superintendent made the contracts for
              said plates and printing, which makes the difference between the cost of the present
              report and that of 1869.
            The SPEAKER did not entertain the proposition.
            Mr. BALLENGER did not think the Superintendent had any fears about the proposed
              investigation, and hoped the House would order it.
            Mr. Tebbs' amendment was adopted by consent.
            Mr BROWNING objected to the bill because the report was now being distribute at the
              expense of members.
            Mr. NEFF. It was the duty of the Superintendent to send out his reports, and he was
              willing to put him in a position to do it.
            Mr. McDONALD amended his motion so as to recommit, with instructions reject it.
            On motion of Mr. TEBBS, Mr. McDonald's motion was laid on the table.

            

            The bill was finally passed the House of Representatives--yeas 56, nays 31.
            Mr. CALKIN'S of Porter desired to furnish an exhibit of the expenditures of the
              preamble and resolution of the gentleman from Whitley, (Mr. WcDonald) b it witheld
              until the= resolution shall be introduced. Mr. Stone's bill, [H. R. 191] supplemental
              to the act regulating prosecutions is cases of bastardy, was finally passed the
              House--yeas 62, nays 22.
            Mr Coggswell's bill, [H. R. 96] to amend section 45 of the road law, (20 years use
              makes a public highway), was finally passed the House yeas 67, nays 11.
          
          
            A CORRECTION PERSONAL.
            Mr. MITCHELL referred to a communication in this morning's Indianapolis JOURNAL, in
              which the Superintendent of Public Instructions takes notice of his reasons for change
              in the appointment of the Trustees of the Indiana University. His remarks referred to
              were not that the Superintendent of the City Schools knew nothing about the State
              University ; but that they were chosen and elected by persons knowing nothing about
              the State University.
            On motion of Mr. ABBETT the House took a recess till two o'clock P. M.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Speaker resumed at two o'clock P. M., and pursued
            
              THE CALENDAR.
              Mr. SANSBERRY'S bill [H. R 180] in relation to the disability of Circuit, Court
                Judges--(The Governor shall appoint a Judge pro tem nine months' disability, to be
                paid out of the salary of the Judge whose place he shall fill--) coming up on the
                third reading, it was finally passed the House of Representatives. Yeas, 72; navs,
                2.
              Mr. Curtis' bill [H. R. 42] to amend section 11of the act to allow County
                Commissioners to organize Turnpike Companys where three fifths petition, &c.,
                approved March 6, 1865 - (giving the road directors the power to reduce their rates
                of toll) coming up on the third reading, it was finally passed the House of
                Representatives yeas, 67; nays, 21.
              Mr. MAJOR filed his motion to reconsider the vote of this morning, concurring in
                the adverse report of the committee on his bill [H. R. 25] increasing the interest
                on the school fun loans to 10 per cent.
              Mr BALLENGER'S bill [H. R 62], authorizing subpoenas deuces tekum
                in certain cases, to be sued on officials, on their bonds, for producing original
                papers at the trial, coming up on the third reading, it was finally passed by the
                House of Representatives--yeas, 85; nays, 2.
              Mr. HAYNES' bill [H. R. 101] to amend section 9 of the act to enable incorporated
                towns to lay out, open and improve streets and alleys, and to make certain plats
                which may have been lost, &c, on providing for the mode of such improvements,
                &c, approved April 27,1867, coming up on the third reading--
              Mr. Haynes explained the bill. Its prime object is to aid persons having property
                on streets and alleys to improve such parts of the streets and that they shall be
                repaid with 50 per cent. of their, accruing tax on such property, and their
                corporation tax.
              Mr MACK (Mr. Meff in the Chair.) The effect of the bill is to make the city pay for
                the improvement; whereas the property particularly benefitted should pay for the
                improvement.
              Mr. HAYNES The improvement is just as much for the general as for the individual
                benefit--applying to towns only.
              Mr MACK then withdrew his opposition.
              Mr. DONALD. It is just such a bill as every incorporated town ought to have. He was
                in favor of making those drones in street improvements come up to the work.
              The bill finally passed the House of Representatives--yeas 57, naye 28.
            
            
              MUNICIPAL BANK SHARES TAX.
              Mr. MILES called up the special order, viz; the consideration of his bill [H. R 6]
                to provide for the assessment and collection of taxes for municipal purposes on bank
                stock and the shares owned in banks doing business in this State, including the Bank
                of the State of Indiana; the same being on the third and last reading.
              Mr. BALLENGER demanded the previous question, but withdrew it for
              Mr. MILES, who read a speech setting forth and enforcing the provisions of the
                bill. It proposes to tax bank stock and bank stock shares the same as other property
                in cities and town. It is to equalize the public burthens without, discriminations;
                and for this purpose it, proposes to change the law in this respect which exempts
                the Bank of the State and its branches from taxation; which banks have already
                forfeited their franchises by failure to pay specie for their notes, as required by
                the 15th section of the act which created them. He defended at length the theory,
                that the charter of the Bank of the State is unconstitutional. Hence the propriety
                of disregarding their exemption from municipal taxation, and taxing their stock
                uniformly with other property--and thus also to enable the General Assembly to
                authorize the taxation of national banks. He proceeded then to show the propriety,
                expediency and reasonableness of the bill from various considerations. When he had
                concluded--
              The bill was finally passed the House of Representatives yeas 84, nays 9.
              Mr. ZENOR submitted the following:
              
                
                  
                    Resolved That hereafter and during the remainder of this
                      session, no member shall be allowed more than five minutes in the discussion
                      of any motion or proposition, unless by unanimous consent of the House.
                  
                
              
              Mr BALLENGER proposed to amend by making it ten minutes.
              Mr CORNER proposed fifteen minutes, which was rejected.
              Mr. Ballenger's amendment was then, agreed to.
              After debate by Messrs. Davidson, Kennedy, Neff and others--
              The resolution, as amended, was adopted yeas 68, nays 24.

              

              Mr. GORDON of Boone submitted the point of order, that this is adopting a new rule
                of the House, which cannot be done without one day's notice.
              The SPEAKER held that the House might make a new rule without the restriction
                referred to.
              Mr. CUNNINGHAM submitted an order: That every member of this House who shall
                hereafter be absent, from his seat without leave, shall forfeit all pay or allowance
                during such absence.
              On motion of Mr. ABBETT, it was laid on the table.
            
            
              DOG TAX.
              Mr. BROWNING called for another vote on his dog tax repeal bill, [H. R. 9] which
                failed for want of a constitutional majority; and the vote being taken again
                resulted yeas 44, nays 49.
              So the bill was rejected.
              Mr. COPNER explaining said: When this bill was up before, the reporter made me say
                that there was a dog in my county that had killed $50 worth of rats. That was the
                speech of the gentleman on my right (Mr. Guthrie.) I said, the foxes killed more
                sheep than the dogs. [Laughter.]
            
            
              CANCELED STATE BONDS.
              On motion of Mr. STONE, the Senate joint resolution, No. 9, relating to certain
                Indiana five per cent bonds, now in the hands of the Secretary of the Treasury of
                the United States, was taken up.
              He said: These bonds have been paid, and we desire the Governor to send for them
                and have them destroyed in the presence of a joint committee of the General
                Assembly. He gave the history of the matter. The importance of the matter was a
                question of time--for the Governor to have time to send for these bonds and burn
                them in the presence of the Finance Committee of tho Senate and the Ways and Means
                Committee of the House of Representatives.
              On motion of Mr. CAUTHORN the joint resolution was referred to the
                  Committee on Ways and Means, with instructions to report at
                their earliest convenience.
              Mr. McFARLAND submitted an order, which was adopted, that the Committee on
                  Temperance return his liquor law bill [H. R. 125] to-morrow morning,
                with their report thereon.
              Mr. KENNEDY desired, ineffectually, to introduce a bill in relation to the fees of
                Justices of the Peace.
              Mr. SIMPSON moved a suspension of the restrictions so as to admit of the final
                passage of the engrossed Senate court bill No. 105.
              On motion of Mr. ST. JOHN, his court bill [H. R. 175] was included in the motion to
                suspend, and that motion was agreed to--yeas 92, nays 0.
              The engrossed Senate court bill No. 105 to abolish the 29th Criminal Circuit and
                transfer its business, &c., was taken up, and the pending amendments inserting:
                "And felonies, as provided by the 17th section of the act to establish Courts of
                Common Pleas, approved May 14,1852, and taking effect March 5, 1859."
              The amendment was adopted by consent, and so the bill passed the House--yeas 88,
                nays 1.
              Mr. St. John's Court bill, [H. R. 173], fixing the times of court in the 17th
                Circuit, was taken up, the pending amendments concurred in by consent, and the bill
                finally passed the House of Representatives 89, nays 0.
              Mr. WILLIAMS obtained leave to introduce a bill [H. R. 273] to amend the act to
                create the 26th Judicial Circuit, and to fix the times of holding courts in the 4th
                Judicial Circuit.
              Mr. COPNER (by leave) introduced a bill [H. R. 274] to repeal sections 1 to 12 to
                provide for the organization of Boards of Commissioners, approved June 18, 1852.
              On motion of Mr. RUDDELL (the restriction having been removed for the purpose--yeas
                79, nays 1,) his bill [H. R. 234] providing for a general system of Common Schools
                in all cities of 30,000 or more inhabitiants; for the election of a Board of School
                Commissioners, and for defining their and powers and duties; and providing for
                Common School Libraries in such cities-was taken up and read the second and third
                times.
              Mr. RUDDELL in reply to Mr. Calkins, of Porter, stated that the bill can have no
                application to any city in the State but Indianapolis. In reply to an interrogatory
                by Mr. Browning, he stated that the Board of Commissioners receive no
                compensation.
              The bill was finally passed by the House of Representatives--yeas 85, nays 4.
              And then at ten minutes after five o'clock the House adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            THURSDAY, February 10, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock--the LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR in the Chair.
          Chaplain services were conducted by Rev. A. HANWAY, of the Massachusetts Avenue M. E.
            Church.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read, till--
          On motion by Mr. FULLER, the further reading was dispensed with.
          
            JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT.
            On motion by Mr. FRANCISCO, the House amendment to the Senate bill abolishing the
              Jefferson county Criminal Court was concurred in.
          
          
            MUNICIPAL BANK SHARES TAX.
            Mr. FULLER moved to suspend the regular order and take up the bill [H. R 6] to tax
              for municipal purposes the shares of bank stock, and the shares owned in banks doing
              business in this State, including the Bank of the State of Indiana.
            The motion was agreed to, and the bill was read the first time.
            Mr. FULLER moved that the constitutional restriction be dispensed with, so that that
              the bill may be pressed to its final reading now.
            Mr. BROWN (by consent) stated that this bill provides that the shares and stocks
              owned in National Banks is to be taxed at the place where the bank is located. Under
              the first act of Congress passed it was provided that stocks of banks should be taxed,
              at the place where the bank was situated, and upon that statute it was held that the
              stock should be taxed in the county or city in which the bank was located.
              Subsequently another act of Congress was passed giving an interpretation to the
              meaning of the word place--that stocks can be taxed throughout the State. The general
              law is that personal property is to be taxed at the place where the owner resides; but
              under this bill the capital stock of banks are to be taxed at the locality where the
              bank is situated, and that is unjust and wrong, in his judgment. Over a million of
              dollars of stock of National Banks in this city are owned by persons living in the
              State outside of Marion county, and if this bill is passed it will compel the owners
              outside to give it in in this city. That is unjust to the people throughout the State.
              He wanted the bill amended in that regard.
            The motion was rejected by yeas 23, nays 15--two thirds not voting in the
              affirmative.
          
          
            PRO TEM JUDGES.
            Mr. GREEN, stating that the Judge in his circuit was stricken down some fifteen
              months ago with paralysis, moved that the bill (H. R. 180) relating to the services
              and pay of Judges pro tem be taken up.
            The motion was agreed to and the bill was read the first time.
            Mr. G., explaining that the bill allows the Governor to appoint a Judge pro tem., upon the proper showing by the Clerks of the counties composing the
              district of a nine months' disability--the salary to be $1,900 a year, to be paid out
              of the salary of the Judge whose place he shall fill moved for a dispensation of the
              constitutional restriction, that the bill may be pressed to the final vote at
              once.
            This motion was also agreed to yeas 40, nays 1 and the bill was read by title only
              the second time.
            The bill was then read the third time and finally passed the Senate by yeas 39, nays
              0.
          
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. SCOTT presented a petition, by way of claim, from Mrs. Mary E Coburn, widow of J.
              A. Coburn, Esq., for $23,892 19, in addition to $10,000 already paid, for services in
              the matter of the settlement of certain Indiana war claims against the General
              Government in 1868.
            It was referred to the Committee on Claims.
            Mr. BIRD presented a memorial concerning the Wabash and Erie Canal, in behalf of a
              Company who has leased said canal, praying for an appropriation of $50,000 to aid in
              making repairs for 1871.
            It was referred to a select committee of seven.
          
          
            THE SINKING FUND.
            Mr. WILLIAMS, from a majority of the Committee on Finance,
              returned the bill  [S. 161] to amend the act
              concerning the loan of the Sinking Fund to citizens of the several counties, with
              amendments.
            Mr. GRAY gave notice of a report on this bill which the minority desire to
              present.
            Time was given the minority to submit a report.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            Mr. MARTINDALE, from the Committee on Fees and Salaries, submited
              a report consolidating the two fee and salary bills [S. 3 and S. 4]--recommending the
              passage of No 4, and that No. 3 be laid on the table.
            The report was concurred in.
            On motion by Mr. HENDERSON the order of business was dispensed with and the bill S. 4
              was taken up.
            Section 2 having been read--
            Mr. MARTINDALE stated that section 2, fixing the fees of the clerk of the Supreme
              Court, is an exact copy of the present law.
            Section 3, fixing the fees of Secretary of State, having been read--
            Mr. MARTINDALE--announced that this was also a copy of the law except the clause
              cutting off his fees for services rendered for State or county officers.
            Mr. DENBO inquired whether this exception would not cut off all fees for attesting
              commissions of the Governor?
            Mr. MARTINDALE though not.
            Sections 4 ard five being read Mr. MARTINDALE remarked that there was no change from
              the law now fixing the fees of Prosecuting and District Attorneys.
            Sections 6 and 7 being read:
            Mr. MARTINDALE stated that there was no change in constable's fees in civil
              cases.
            Section 8, fixing the fees of Justices, in which there was no change, was read.
            Mr. GRAY moved to amend, adding "for trial on appearance, $1," and increasing the
              trial of right of property to the same amount.
            The amendment was agreed to.
            Section 9 (juror's fees) was read.
            Mr. DENBO regarded these fees too high in Circuit, Common Pleas and Criminal Counts;
              he moved to make this fee $2 instead of $2 50.
            Mr GREEN, Mr. JOHNSTON and Mr. CAVE opposed the amendment.
            Mr. LASALLE opposed an increase on the present law.
            Mr. HENDERSON opposed the amendment for the reason that jurors receive their fees
              usually in county orders, and they are often below par.
            Mr. STEELE thought that justice could not be done without raising the fees of
              jurors.
            Mr. GLESSNER hoped the amendment would prevail for the reason that up to two years
              ago these fees were $1 25, and he believed the present fees was satisfactory. In his
              county the Grand Jury sat as long again at the last term as ever before.
            Mr. MARTINDALE said all knew that every man who sits on a jury at $2 50 per day makes
              a sacrifice; and professional jurors frequently have to be called, to make up a jury
              Justice should be done notwithstanding the clamor for economy and reform.
            Mr WILLIAMS thought the Senate would be acting inconsistent to reduce the fees of
              jurors when the pages on this floor are paid from $3 to $5 a day. He favored economy
              and reform as much as any gentleman, but it was not reform in the right direction to
              cut down the fees of jurors.
            Mr GLESSNER insisted that this place should not be a money making one it should pay
              expenses, and when much more than than that is due there is dagger.
            Mr. DWIGGINS demanded the previous question, and there being a second,
            The amendment was rejected by yeas 30, nays 8.
            And them came the recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at 2 o'clock P.M.
            Mr. GRAY offered a resolution that when the Senate adjourn it adjourn till Monday at
              2 o'clock P. M.
            The resolution was adopted by yeas 21, nays 13.
            
              SUPERIOR COURTS.
              Mr. MARTINDALE moved that the order of business be suspended to have the Superior
                court bill [H. R. 58] read the third time. His people were unanimous in favor of
                this bill. Other gentleman had repeatedly been favored with suspension of the rules
                for a like purpose, and now he desired the same courtesy extended that this bill may
                be put upon its passage.
              The motion was agreed to, and the bill was read the third time.
              The bill passed by yeas 30, nays 13.
            
            
              AGENT OF STATE.
              Mr. HOOPER, by leave, from the Committee on Finance, returned
                the bill (H. R. 285) to amend the act fixing the compensation of State Agent with an
                amendment inserting appropriately the words "office rent and all the incidental
                expenses of his office."It goes to the files.
            
            
              AID TO RAILROADS.
              Mr. GLESSNER, by consent, from the Committee on Railroads,
                returned the bill (S. 174) amending the county and township railroad act with an
                amendment. It goes to the files.
            
            
              FEES AND SALARIES.
              The Senate returned to the consideration of the fee and salary bill [S. 4] pending
                at the time of recess for dinner.
              Section 10, fixing witness fees in Supreme, Circuit, Criminal, and Common Pleas
                courts, being the same as the present law, was read--
              Mr. JOHNSTON moved to increase the fee "to each witnees subpeoned in the county and
                detained from another county each day" from $1 to $2
              Mr. GLESSNER moved to strike out these lines:
              The latter motion was agreed to.
              Mr DWIGGINS moved ineffectually to strike out the words "not to be computed beyond
                the limits of adjoining county"--the mileage.

              

              Section 11 (same as the present law), witness before a Justice: and section 12,
                fees of Notaries; and section 13, fees of Coroners; section 14, fees of Township
                Trustees; section 15, Coroners' jurors; being read--
              Mr GLESSNER moved to make the pay $1 50 a day.
              Mr. ROSEBROUGH moved to make the pay$1 a day.
              The latter motion was agreed to. Sections 16 and 17 were read.
              Section 18, Surveyors' fees (the old fee bill) being read--
              Mr. MARTINDALE moved to amend by allowing the chain-bearers $1 50 a day, instead of
                $1; and the Surveyor for copy of plat $1, instead of 25 cents.
              Mr GLESSEER moved that the fee for a plat be 50 cents.
              The motion was agreed to.
              Mr. ROSEBROUGH thought in the haste in running over this bill the fees were being
                raised unduly. We are getting too far from the line, he insisted.
              Mr. CAVE thought $1 a day sufficient for chain-bearers.
              The amendment was withdrawn.
              Mr. HENDERSON moved to raise the fee for attending court from $1 25 to $1 50 a
                day.
              Mr. TAYLOR thought the Surveyor would be entitled to witness fees in addition to
                this fee.
              Mr. GLESSNER referred to another fee usually charged by the Surveyor when he
                attends court as a witness, which, added to this fee, would certainly be
                sufficient.
              Mr. DWIGGINS moved, ineffectually, to increase this fee to $2.
              Mr. DENBO moved that this line be struck out. It was so ordered by consent.
              Mr. ROSEBROUGH moved to reduce the fess of witnesses (in section 10) attending from
                another county from $2 to $1 50 per day, and gave reasons.
              It was so ordered.
              Sec. 19.--Fees of Circuit Court Clerks, was read.
              Mr. GLESSNER moved to strike out the fees for "swearing to and affixing jurat to
                affidavits," and also the words, "prepared and written by and sworn before the
                clerk."
              Mr. SCOTT insisted that 25 cents was too much for simply signing the name. The
                motion to strike out was rejected.
              Mr. DENBO moved to amend by adding a fee for taking, approving and recording an
                official bond, $2.
              Mr. MARTINDALE thought $1 enough.
              Mr. STEELE understood that under this bill clerks in the smaller counties will get
                only about $600 a year.
              Mr. SCOTT moved to make the fee $1 50.
              It was so ordered.
              Mr. DWIGGINS moved to amend by way of a substitute for this section, making the
                fees for subpoena issued by foreman 25 cents instead of 10 cents; for copying each
                100 words, three, instead of four, figures to be counted as a word, 15 cents instead
                of 10 cents; for entering dismissal of a cause 20 cents instead of 15 cents; for
                entering verdict, 15 cents instead of 10 cents ; for docketing each cause after the
                first, 30 cents instead of 20 cents, and adding several items or additional fees,
                &c, &c. He desired this amendment as a matter of justice to officers in the
                smaller counties.
              Mr. MARTINDALE would oppose these amendments as a whole while some of them might be
                well enough. He was understood to say that it costs these county officers about
                seven cents per one hundred words to have copying done by deputies.
              Mr. DENBO favored the cutting off of all constructive fees.
              Mr GLESSNER had no objection to raising many of these items from two to five cents,
                but to some of the amendments proposed he did object. He also objected to any
                constructive fees, and therefore he moved to strike from the amendments the fee for
                issue joined, and the fee for bringing records into court, and another amendment
                which he indicated.
              Mr DWIGGINS accepted this modification of his amendment.
              Mr. WILLIAMS moved ineffectually to lay the substitute on the table--no quorum
                voting on a division.
              Mr. MARTINDALE hoped to avoid the difficulty of no quorum that the amendment would
                be adopted by consent.
              It was so ordered.
              A Senator, as there was no quorum, made an ineffectual motion to adjourn.
              Mr. WILLIAMS made an ineffectual motion to reduce the fee for issuing marriage
                licenses from $2 to $1.
              Mr. DENBO thought the fee in trials of contested claim by an administrator,
                executor or guardian, was not sufficient.
              Mr. MARTINDALE insisted that it was, and explained.
              Mr. FOSDICK regarded it as one great object in this bill to cut off constructive
                fees. Some clerks will charge for filing every separate article written on the same
                piece of paper, and he moved to amend by providing that a paper shall be construed
                to be any piece of paper or pieces of paper attached or fastened together.
              Mr. STEELE objected to the amendment, because quite a book could be fastened
                together, and thus quite a package might be proposed to be counted as but one
                paper.
              The amendment was rejected.
              Mr. STEELE admitted that estates were being eat up to a great extent by
                constructive fees, and contended that the fees in estate cases should be reduced is
                case of the Sheriff as well as the Clerk. All the fees in estate cases should be
                reduced.
              On motion of Mr. MARTINDALE, and by consent, the fee for services in the trial of
                each claim contested by administrator, executor or guardian, when the judgment is
                against such estate, was stricken out.
              In section 19 the Sheriff fees were read.
               Mr. DWIGGINS moved to make the mileage ten cents instead of five. (Ten cents is
                the present law.)

              

              It was agreed to.
              Mr. FULLER moved to strike out the words "when paid to any other person than the
                Sheriff after demanded by him, one-half the commission only shall be had"referring
                to the collection of money without sale.
              Mr. BEARDSLEY moved to refer this whole subject of fees to a select committee, to
                consist of Messrs. Martindale, Denbo, Williams, Glessner, Dwiggins and Steele, with
                instructions to report on Tuesday next.
              Mr. MARTINDALE and Mr. HENDERSON objected.
              Mr. BEARDSLEY withdrew his motion.
              The amendment (Mr. Fuller's) was agreed to by consent.
              Mr. DWIGGINS moved to insert 2 per cent instead of 11/2 per cent commission on sale
                on executions; but at the request of Senators who desired to avoid the discovery of
                no quorum if he insisted on the amendment, he withdrew it.
              Mr. FULLER moved to make the fee for each additional convict taken to the
                Penitentiary at the same time "all necessary expenses" instead of ten cents per
                mile.
              It was agreed to.
              Mr. STEELE moved to make the pay for board of prisoners 75 cents per day instead of
                50 cents.
              Mr. WILLIAMS moved to make it 60 cents.
              Mr. STEELE appealed to Senators to do what as just between man and man in this
                matter--50 cents was too little, especially where the Sheriff was not furnished a
                residence.
              Mr. MARTINDALE was willing to make it 75 cents up to the first ten, and after that
                60 cents a day.
              Mr. WILLIAMS understood prisoners were boarded at the State prison for fourteen
                cents a day--to allow sixty cents would leave a good profit.
              The amendment (Mr. William's) was agreed to.
              Mr. DENBO moved to add words to this effect "but shall not charge for more miles
                than are necessarily traveled in going to and returning from the residence of the
                party farthest, named in the process."
              Mr. JOHNSTON stated an objection to the wording of the amendment.
              Mr. MARTINDALE suggested that the insertion in the appropriate place of the word
                "actual" would cover the ground.
              Mr DENBO assented.
              And it was so ordered.
              Section 20 fixing Auditor's fees was read.
              Mr. HADLEY moved to make the fee for licenses issued $1 instead of 50 cents. It was
                so ordered.
              Mr GLESSNER moved to make the fee for approving an official board $1 instead of 30
                cents.
              Mr. FULLER moved, ineffectually, to amend by making it $1 50.
              The motion (Mr. Glessner's) was agreed to.
              Mr. HADLEY moved to strike out the words "not to include the tax list in the clause
                for filing each paper and to make the fee for filing three cents instead of five
                cents.
              Mr. FOSDICK opposed the amendment.
              Mr. ROSEBRUGH moved to insert the provision in the old fee bill--five cents for
                filing each paper except county orders and papers returned by Township
                Assessors.
              Mr. BEARDSLEY again insisted on his motion to refer this subject of fees and
                salaries to a select committee, which he now submitted in the shape of a resolution
                as follows:
              
                
                  
                    Resolved, That the subject of fees be refersed to a
                      Committee composed of Messrs Martindale, Denbo, Glessner, Dwiggins, Henderson,
                      Willsams and Steele, with instructions to perfect a bill out of those before
                      the Senate, and report the same on next Thursday.
                  
                
              
              It was adopted.
              Mr. CAVEN offered a resolution authorizing the Doorkeeper to appoint another
                page--one of the boys who has served from the first of the session under the
                impression that he was regularly appointed.
              On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS the resolution was amended so as to pay the boy referred
                to up to to-day.
              The resolution was adopted.
            
            
              PAY OF EMPLOYES.
              Pending the consideration of the fees and salaries' bills--
              Mr. BRADLEY obtained consent to submit a report from the Judiciary Committee
                expressing the opinion that the per diem of Doorkeepers and assistants should be
                five dollars.
              The report was concurred in.
              And the Senate adjourned until 2 o'clock P. M. Monday.
              CORRECTION.--In Mr. Steele's remarks yesterday afternoon, the
                word "frame" in the second line should be printed "veins."
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATITES.
          
            FRIDAY, February 10, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.--the order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. Tinsley, of
            Asbury Chapel.
          On motion of Mr. WASHBURN, the further reading of the journal was dispensed with.
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The SPEAKER announced the order of the call of the committees for new bills,
              reso-tions and other propositions.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, presented three petitions with reference to temperance, the
              divorce laws and prison reform; which were read and referred.
            Mr. BROWNING introduced a bill [H. R. 175] for an act to authorize Metropolitan
              Police Districts in cities having a population of 30,000 inhabitants according to the
              United States census of 1870, and providing for the government thereof:
          
          
            CITY RAILROAD AID.
            Mr. McDONALD moved to reconsider the the vote of yesterday concurring in the adverse
              committee report on Mr. Wilson's City Railroad aid bill (H. R. 182 )
            Mr. MILES moved, ineffectually, to lay the motion on the table. And then the motion
              was agreed to.
            Mr. WILSON. This bill provides simply  that
              cities may extend aid to any railroad connected with lines running into them.
            The SPEAKER. I would suggest that the gentleman had better recommit it to the
                Committee on the Judiciary.
            Mr. WILSON made the motion, and the bill was so referred.
            Mr. McFARLAND introduced a bill, [H. R. 276], for an act to authorize County
              Commissioners to encourage public improvements--(by donations from the County
              Treasury).
            Mr. McFARLAND--a bill, [H. R. 277] for an act to secure the arrest of horse thieves
              (County Commissioners may offer a reward)
            Mr. BARNABY--a bill, [H. R. 278], for an act in relation to the removal of dead
              bodies, and prescribing punishment therefor.
            Mr. COGGSWELL presented sundry petitions which were referred without reading.
            Mr. TEBBS--A bill [H. R. 279] for an act to amend section 21 of the act authorizing a
              company to construct the Aurora and Laughery turnpike, approved February 15, 1858.
            Mr. TEBBS presented a claim which was referred without reading.
            Mr. STRICKLAND presented a paper which was referred without reading.
            Mr. SNODGRASS--A bill [H. R. 280] for an act to amend section 26 to amend the common
              school law.
            Mr DEFREES--A bill [H. R. 281] for an act to amend section 6 of the valuation and
              appraisement act of June 21, 1857, as amended March 16, 1861, (for exemption of church
              property, &c.)
            Mr. DEFREES--A bill [H. R 282] for an act authorizing hydraulic companies to
              appropriate lands for their use upon payment of the assessment thereof.
            Mr. MAJOR and Mr. ST. JOHN presented petitions which were referred without
              reading.
            Mr. ST. JOHN- A bill [H. R. 283] for an act limiting the jurisdiction of the Supreme
              Court of Indiana in civil causes ($200 and upwards).
            Mr. ST. JOHN presented a temperance petition from citizens of Bloomfield.
            Mr. WARRUM submitted a resolution to order a subscription for the Indiana Weekly
              American.
            On motion of Mr. ABBETT, it was laid on the table.
            Mr. CONNER and Mr. KIRKPATRICK presented two petitions in the matter of divorce and
              in the matter of reformatories.
            Mr. LINES, a bill [H. R. 284] for an act to amend the 25th section of an act
              regulating descents and the apportionment of estates, approved May 14, 1852
            Mr. KIRKPATRICK, a bill [H. R. 285] for an act in relation to unclaimed county
              orders.
            Mr. KIRKPATRICK, a bill [H. R. 286] for an act in relation to constables' and their
              fees--same as allowed to sheriffs.
            Mr. WASHBURN, a bill [H. R. 287] for in act to protect wood, timber, shade and
              ornamental trees growing in cities or towns, and providing penalties [from $10 to
              $500, and imprisonment not exceeding six months, and liability for damages].
            Mr. WASHBURN, a bill [H. R. 288] for an act defining the procuring of abortions or
              miscarriage to be a felony, and prescribing penalties.
            Mr. SIMPSON, a bill [H. R. 289] for an act to provide for the publication of
              proceedings and allowances of County Commissioners, and the receipts and expenditures
              of Township Trustees (in one newspaper of each party--ten cents a line of brevier
              type).
            Mr. CAUTHORN, a bill [H. R 290] for an act in relation to agents of foreign insurance
              companies doing business in this State, defining their duties and the duties of
              certain officers in relation thereto, etc., and prescribing penalties for
              violation.
            Mr. CAUTHORN, a bill [H. R 291] for an act to amend sections 2 and 3 of the act to
              fix the number of Senators and Representatives of the General Assembly of the State of
              Indiana, and to apportion the same in the several counties of the State. It was
              referred to a select committee of five.
            Mr. RUDDELL, a bill [H. R. 292] for an act to provide for the sale and transfer of
              corporation stock for the non-payment of tax, and declaring an emergency.
            Mr. STEPHENS submitted a concurrent resolution for a memorial to Congress for the
              improvement of the navigation of White river from its mouth to the Martin county
              shoals. It was rejected.
            Mr. MITCHELL: A bill [H. R. 293] for an act appropriating money out of the State
              Treasury for the use of the Indiana University. ($30,000 annually)
            Mr. MAJOR: A bill [H. R. 294] for an act to amend section 5 of the act providing for
              a uniform mode of doing township business, prescribing the duty of certain officers in
              connection therewith. Approved February 18, 1859.
            Mr. MITCHELL submitted a joint resolution rehearsing the evils of war, and
              memorializing the Congress of the United States for the settlement of national
              difficulties by appeal to national umpires.
            On motion of Mr. WILSON it was referred to the Committee on Federal
                Relations.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter, (by request of the Governor,)--a bill, [H. R. 295] for an act
              to authorize the exercise of the Executive clemency towards prisoners convicted and
              sentenced to the penitentiary by paroling instead of pardoning such prisoners.
            Mr. CALKINS, a bill, [H. R. 296,] for an act touching the consolidation of railroads
              and declaring the effect of such consolidations, and declaring what shall be
              considered personalty.
            Mr. CALKINS, a bill, [ H. R. 297,] for an act to provide for farm crossings across
              railroads.
            Mr. CALKINS submitted an order which was adopted, that the Committee on
                County and Township Business inquire into the practicability of the
              reducing the fees of township officers--trustees, assessors and supervisors.
            Mr. NEFF--a bill [H. R. 298] for an act to amend section 108 of the common school
              law(to cut down the fees of the Auditor.

            

            Mr. MONTGOMERY--a bill [H. R. 299] for an act making the fee for recording deeds,
              mortgages and leases, a lien on the real estate.
            Mr STONE--(by unanimous consent), reported from the special joint committee thereon,
              a bill [H. R. 300] to legalize the anouncements, meetings, organizations, sessions and
              proceedings of the State Board of Equalization which assembled in 1869, and to enforce
              the action of said Board.
            Mr. STONE. A bill [H. R. 301] for the payment of taxes quarterly.
            Mr. HARTLEY submitted a resolution which was adopted, directing the
                Judiciary Committe to enquire into the expediency of so changing
              the law governing "the jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace as to make their
              jurisdiction coextensive with the county on all written contracts or agreements, and
              report by bill or otherwise as soon as practicable.
            Mr NETHERTON. A bill [H. R 302] for an act establishing a standard weight per bushel
              for cranberries, Hungarian grass, millet, orchard grass, red tops, turnip seed, peas,
              apples, peaches, dried, plumbs, and sweet potatoes.
            Mr. DAVIDSON. A bill [H. R 303] for an act to amend the 18th section of an act
              entitled or an act regulating descents and the apportionment of estates, approved May
              14, 1852.
            Mr DAVIDSON--a bill [H. R. 304] for an act fixing the weights regulating the sale of
              salted or cured fish, and prescribing punishment for violations thereof.
            Mr HEILMAN--a bill [II. R 305] for an act in relation to orphan asylums and children
              entrusted to their care.
            Mr. WHITE--a bill [H. R. 306] for an act to amend section 7 of an act entitled an act
              to provide for a general system of common schools, the officers thereof and their
              respective powers and duties, and matters properly connected therewith
            Mr. RHODES, a bill (H. R 307) for an act to amend section 2 of an act entitled An act
              creating the 23d Common Pleas District, and making provision therefor, and repealing
              all conflicting laws.
            Mr. OATLEY, a bill (H. R. 308) for an act appointing commissioners to visit the fish
              ponds of James F. Campbell to ascertrin the extent of his enterprise and inquire into
              the expediency of assisting him by an appropriation.
            Mr. Ballenger A bill [H. R. 309] for an act in relation to sale of real and personal
              property on execution providing for appraisement and other matters properly connected
              therewith.
            Mr Martin, of Wayne A bill [H. R. 310] for an act providing for the election and
              qualification of Justices of the Peace and defining their jurisdiction, powers and
              duties in civil cases.
            Mr. Martin, of WayneA bill [H. R. 311] for an act to provide for a general system of
              common schools, the officers thereof and their respective powers and duties, and
              matters properly connected therewith, and to establish township libraries and for the
              regulation thereof.
            Mr. NETHERTON submitted a resolution, which was adapted, requesting the
                Committee on Military Affairs to report on the resolution to
              inquire into and investigate the amount of unpaid claims of recruiting officers in
              this State during the late war, and report at their earliest convenience.
            Mr. MACK, (Mr. McDonald in the Chair,) submitted a joint resolution on the subject of
              Presidents or the United States and Presidential candidates receiving gifts or
              presents; (if any candidate for the Presidency receive a present exceeding in value
              $100, he shall be ineligible, and if after his inauguration any President shall
              receive such a gift, he shall be guilty of a high misdemeanor, and be subject to
              impeachment;) and on his further motion its further consideration was postponed, and
              it was made the special order for Thursday next at 3 o'clock.
            Messrs. Kennedy, Davidson, Sayres, Oatley and others presented petitions which were
              referred under the rules.
            Mr. BARNABY (by unanimous consent) returned from the Temperance Committee. Mr.
              McFarland's liquor bill [H. R. 125] recommending that it be referred to the
                Committee on the Judiciary.
            Mr. McFARLAND was of opinion that the constitutional question involved could be
              decided without reference.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. BALLENGER submitted a joint resolution ceding to the United States the
              jurisdiction of territory therein named, and for the purposes therein named. (It
              proposes to cede the jurisdiction of township 15 north of range 4 east for the
              purposes of a National Capitol.) It was referred to the Committee on Federal
                Relations.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, (on behalf of Mr. Browning, entered his motion to reconsider
              the vote rejecting the bill for the repeal of the dog law.
            Mr. McDOWELL offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the Committee on
                County and Township Business inquire into the expediency of furnishing
              Justices of the Peace with dockets, to be paid for out of the township fund.
            Mr. WYME R submitted an order, which was adopted, that the Speaker be requested to
              name Messrs, Abbett and Stone as additional members of the Committee on
                Temperance.
            Mr McDONALD submitted his preamble and resolution indicated yesterday that the
                Committee on Public Expenditures investigate fully the matter of
              the cost of the report of the Superintendent of Public Instruction for the year 1871,
              which was adopted.
            Mr. CALKINS submitted an exhibit of the items referred to, which was ordered to be
              referred to the same Committee, with the preamble and resolutions.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Wayne, submitted a resolution that the Committee on Public Buildings
              examine the land belonging to the State north of the institution for the education of
              the Deaf and Dumb, and inquire into its adaptability for a site for a State House.

            

            On motion of Mr. COPNER it was laid on the table.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, entered his motion to reconsider the vote of the House on the
              bill [S. 21] in relation to the trial of criminals, and providing for the trial of
              insanity.
            Mr FRIEDLEY submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the Judiciary Committee
              inquire into the expediency of amending the law in relation to the practice in State
              cases before Justices of the Peace, so as to require the prosecuting witness to pay
              the costs, where it is found that the prosecution is malignant or without sufficient
              cause.
            Mr. McGOWAN submitted an order, which was adopted, for printing 500 copies of the
              report of the Board of Managers of the Reformatory Institution for Women and
              Girls.
            The committee bill [H. R. 271] (being a substitute for Mr. Defree's game law bill [H.
              R. 62] entitled an act for the protection of fish, and repealing, &c, coming up on
              the third reading Penalty not less than $5 nor more than $50, excepting the Ohio
              river, and excepting 15 feet seins and hook and line.)
            Mr. HAYNES stated the object of the bill to protect the fish from extermination in
              the lakes, ponds and small streams of the State, excepting pivate ponds. It is to
              repress the intrusions of sportsmen upon the sporting rights and passtimes of
              residents. It admits of fishing with hook and line.
            Mr. MINNICH wanted to be satisfied on the question whether the bill admits of
              spearing fish.
            The reading of the bill showed that fish should not be speared in the spawning
              season.
            And then, under the force of the previous question, the bill was carried to the final
              vote, which resulted--yeas 66, nays 23--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Ballenger, Barnaby,Beeler, Biggs,
                    Britton, Butterworth, Calkins of Fulton, Calkins of Porter, Cauthorn,
                    Coggswell,Conner, Defrees, Deputy, Furnas. Galletine,Gordon of Cass, Guthrie,
                    Hardin, Hawley, Haynes, Heilman, Henderson, Hendry, Hill, Hooker, Kennedy, King,
                    Kirkpatrick, Knight, Lines, Major, Martin of Wayne, Martin of Putnam, McDonald,
                    McGowan, Minich, Mitchell,Monroe, Montgomery, Netherton, Ray, Rhodes, Rice,
                    Ruddell, Sabin Sansberry, Sayers, Simpson, Shutt, Snodgrass, Stanley,
                    Stephenson, St. John, Stone, Strickland, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Taylor,
                    Washburn, Warrum, White, Williams, Wilson, Wood and Zenor--65
                  NAYS--Messrs. Browning, Bruner, Caldwell, Cunningham,
                    Curtis, Davidson, Devol, Donham, Friedley, Goble, Gordon of Boone, Hartley,
                    Hynes, McDowell, McFarland, Millikan, Myers, Neff, Oatley, Rawles, Stephens,
                    Walker and Mr Speaker--23.
                
              
            
            Mr. BROWNING explained that he voted "no" under instructions.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH. I would like to use the dip net without restrictions, but I will
              vote for this.
            Mr CALDWELL. Because it prohibits fishing in April, May and November, he voted
              "no."
            Mr. FRIEDLEY. Under instructions I have to vote "no."
            Mr. FURNAS. Under instructions, and because this bill meets my approbation, I vote
              "aye "
            Mr NETHERTON. In view of the wholesale destruction of fish by seining, and believing
              that by supporting this bill I represent the interests of my constituents, I shall
              vote for it.
            Mr RUDDELL Though I should prefer that the bill were different in many of its
              provisions, I regard it as a compromise. I would much rather vote for a bill to
              prohibit the taking of fish for the next two years. But hoping that we may have some
              protection for fish, I vote aye.
            Mr. BIGGS I have insisted all the time on having the seines to run at certain seasons
              of the year. I insist that seining at certain seasons is for the protection of fish;
              and I can prove it by experienced fishermen. But under all the circumstances I vote
              aye.
            Mr. Rice's bill [H. R. 131] supplemental to the act in relation to county treasurers
              of June, 1852, was read the third time.
            Mr. BARNABY. It provides for the case where the party has a county order and owes the
              county--he shall not be paid in excess of what he owes.
            Mr. ZENOR suggested that the provision might be avoided by a transfer of the county
              order.
            Mr. BABNABY. But the county Auditor shall not issue the order to the party if he owes
              more than the amount.
            Mr. NEFF. Then it makes the Auditor the judge to decide, perhaps, on ex
                parte evidence.
            Mr. McDONALD The right place to settle this is before the Board of Commissioners.
            The SPEAKER. The provisions of the bill do not apply at the time of issuing, but at
              the time of presenting.
            Mr. ST. JOHN. How is the Treasurer to know how much the party is indebted?
            Mr. ABBETT moved to recommitt the bill to the Committee on the
                Judiciary.
            Mr. CAUTHORN proposed to amend the motion by instructing the Committee to report a
              bill making all county orders subject to the tax.
            Mr. ABBETT accepted and the bill was recommitted.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, submitted an order to adjourn over until Monday.
            After debate Mr. STONE proposed to amend so as to read that when the House shall
              adjourn tomorrow noon it shall be till Monday at two o'clock.
            The amendment was adopted; and then the resolution as amended was rejected yeas 37,
              nays 52.
            Mr. RICE submitted an order that hereafter no member shall be granted leave of
              absence unless on account of sickness or pressing business, and excepting cases in
              which the member has not been absent, during the session.
            Pending which--
            The House took a recess till 2 o'clock.
          

          

          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The SPEAKER resumed at 2 o'clock P. M., and pursued the
            
              CALENDAR.
              Mr. Britton's county seats removal bill [H. R. 129] coming up in order on the third
                reading.
              Mr. BRITTON explained its provisions as applicable to the exigencies in his
                county.
              Mr. STANLEY proposed to make the percent. of voters required to sign the petition60
                per cent. instead of 66 per cent.; and moved to recommit the bill for that
                purpose.
              Mr. BIGGS spoke for the amendment. It was the same per cent required in the Senate
                bill on this subject. The larger per cent. might do if the vote were taken at a
                general election, but it would effectually prevent the removal of county seats in
                desirable cases.
              Mr. BRITTON. Two-thirds was the old law.
              Mr. WALKER liked the restriction to within three miles of the center; but the 66
                per cent was too high.
              Mr. TEBBS moved to lay the motion to recommit on the table.
              Mr. TAYLOR agreed with Mr. Biggs, that to require so large a per cent. of signers
                to the petition would make the removal in some cases impossible. It was to require
                two-thirds of all parties, interested or not. If it were reduced to 60 per cent. he
                could vote for the bill.
              Mr. McFARLAND inquired whether the law now does not require 65 per cent., [A
                voice--The petition's 55 per cent.,] well; with the addition of 10 per cent?
              Mr. BIGGS moved to instruct for an amendment: that the same shall take effect and
                be in force from and after the first day of January, 1872.
              The motion to recommit was rejected.
              Mr. STANLEY moved ineffectually, to recommit, with instructions to reduce the per
                cent. to sixty-two.
              Mr. HAYNES spoke in favor of the bill. Most counties in the State would loose
                heavily by a removal of the county seat; and there might be an effort to remove his
                own county seat; and for that reason he would prefer the larger per cent in this
                bill.
              Mr. CUNNINGHAM should oppose the bill, because any change of the law would open
                again the vexed question of the removal of county seats.
              Mr. RHODES, considering that so large a portion of the voters in every county who
                are mot permanent residents and landholders,argued that 66 per cent, of the entire
                voting population of the county were not too much to remove a county seat. There
                were always dozens and scores of petitioners on such petitions who were no way
                interested, and of whom nobody knows anything.
              Mr. WALKER agreed that the real estate holder should control in this matter. But in
                his county the county seat was near the border; but if 66 per cent were
                required--whilst a large majority desire it--the removal could not be effected.
              Mr. CALDWELL demanded the previous question, and under its pressure the bill was
                passed the House of Representatives--yeas, 55; nays, 32.
              Mr. STONE (by unanimous consent) returned the Senate joint resolution with
                reference to certain cancelled five per cent. State bonds, and reported that the
                  Committee on Ways and Means, having fully heard and considered
                the matter, recommend the passage of the resolution.
              The resolution was then read again by the clerk, and passed the House of
                Representatives--yeas, 90; nays, 2.
              Mr. WILSON moved to take up the Senate's amendment to his Superior Court bill [H.
                R. 58] and (much as he regretted the action), to concur therein.
              The bill was taken up and the engrossed amendment concurred in.
              Mr. STONE'S road bill [H. R. 55] coming up--
              Mr. STONE explained that the bill provides that where a majority of the
                stockholders, organized under the act of 1865, shall petition therefor, their
                directors may make their charter perpetual--reducing their tolls to correspond with
                those of other turnpike companies.
              The bill was finally passed the House--yeas 60, nays 25.
              Mr. Holland's bill [H. R. 106] to prevent electors from voting for the office of
                Supervisor in any other district than that in which they really reside, coming up on
                the third reading, it was finally passed the House of Representatives--yeas 74, nays
                7.
              Mr. Taylor's bill [H. R. 63] to amend sections 62, 63, 65 and 66 of the general
                city corporation act of March 14, 1867, coming up on the third reading--
              Mr. TAYLOR said the general law of 1867 provides that the cost of improvement of
                streets should be assessed in part on the property to be benefitted; but there was
                no provision made for the collection of the assessment. This bill supplied that
                defect. It could operate injuriously in no direction; it was simply to supply a
                defect in the law; and he gave a case in his city where this remedy was now needed;
                and for this reason he had introduced this bill, which was drafted by his City
                Attorney, and he considered its passage desirable and safe.
              Mr. DAVIDSON explained his opposition to the bill because he would not go on the
                record as sanctioning the principle of assessments for benefits assumed to have been
                conferred in this way.
              The bill was finally passed the House--yeas 67, nays 16.
              Mr. Millikan's trespassing animals bill (H. R 134) coming up on the third
                reading--(fine not exceeeing $5, for the use of schools, and liability tor damages;
                $1 for taking up and advertising a horse, and 75 cents a head for neat cattle )
              Mr. MILLIKAN said such a law was desirable in his region. The county commissioners
                could suspend its operation by permits.
              Mr. HAYNES considered this bill important to the farming interests. It would re-
                   move most occasions for neighborhood
                difficulties. Legislation in this direction was needed in the densely settled
                regions.
              Mr. MITCHELL considered this a very small matter to come before the
                Legislature.
              Mr. McDONALD and Mr. BRITTLON. Under the present law the County Commissioners are
                required to designate what animals may run at large. The latter thinking this would
                be a very good law, extending the discretion of the County Commissioners.
              Mr. COX had a reasonable liking for public convenience and public improvements, but
                he liked freedom a great deal better. The law in this direction was stringent
                enough. He hoped the bill would not be passed.
              Mr. LINES spoke in favor of the bill. It was needed to protect the public
                roads.
              Mr. HAYES replied to the objections of Mr. Cox. The law of Ohio, from which the
                bill is copied, has worked well.
              Mr. ST. JOHN held that all the remedysought under this bill could be had under the
                law of 1852, which he read. It was only necessary for those needing protection from
                animals running at large to go before the County Commissioners and get an order to
                restrain them. The people of these newly settled States have not divested themselves
                of the idea that they have a certain right to let their stock run in uninclosed
                grounds
              Mr. BALLENGER denied that there is any equitable or legal right for any man to
                pasture his stock on my ground. It is now illegal in this State for any man to allow
                his stock to run at large. But the Commissioners, while they make the order, it
                cannot be enforced by penalty. And the enforcement of the law for protection against
                animals running at large is the object of this bill.
              Mr. LINES and Mr. WASHBURN reasoned in favor of the bill.
              Mr. TEBBS demanded the previous question; and under its force the bill was rejected
                yeas 27, nays 63--Messrs. Barnaby, Curtis, Kirkpatrick, Martin of Wayne and others
                explaining their negative votes, and Mr. Beeler and Mr. Tebbs their affirmative
                votes--the latter alleging the great want of a stock law in his region.
              The Commissioners' sinking fund distribution bill [H. R. 266] coming up, it was
                read the third time.
              Mr. RUDDELL asked and obtained unanimous consent to amend: "Provided that any
                officer who shall receive any bonus or interest for the deposit of this funn or any
                part thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a felony and forfeit his office."
              So the bill finally passed the House--yeas 88, nays 2.
              Mr. STRICKLAND submitted a resolution that when this House shall adjourn to day it
                shall be till half past one o'clock P. M. Monday.
              Mr. McDONALD proposed a substitute making the adjournment till two o'clock Monday,
                and providing that this House will not adjourn over another working day this
                session.
              The subsitute was accepted, and so the resolution was adopted.
              On motion of Mr. RHODES, the rules having been suspended for the purpose, the bill
                [H. R. 307] amending section 2 of the act creating the Twenty third Common Pleas
                District was taken up, read twice and finally passed the House--yeas 88, nays
                none.
              Mr. CAUTHORN'S bill [H. R. 231] authorizing the making and recording of city plats,
                and making the same and copies thereof evidence, was read the third time and finally
                passed the House--yeas 88, nays 1.
              Mr. WHITE(by unanimous consent) introduced a bill [H. R. 312] for an act declaring
                who shall not be competent as viewers and reviewers for the location, vacation and
                change of highways.
              Mr. BIGGS, (by unanimous consent) introduced a bill [H. R. 313] for an act
                providing for conveyances proved and satisfied to be entitled to record, and to be
                read in evidence without further proof.
              Mr. WARRUM (by unanimous consent) intropuced the bill [H. R 314] for an act to
                amend section 64 of the act providing for the election and qualifications of
                Justices of the Peace, approved June 9, 1852.
              On motion of Mr. WOOD, his bill [H. R. 137] to fix the times for holding the Courts
                of Common Pleas in the Sixteenth District was taken up; on the third reading; and by
                unanimous consent it was amended so as to strike out what relates to the county of
                Pulaski; and then the bill was passed the final reading in the House--yeas 87, nays
                none.
              Mr. Calkins of Porter's bill [H. R. 170] to amend section 18 of the act concerning
                the partition of lands, approved May 2, 1852; (changing the law so as to require but
                one set of Commissioners to appraise the lands) was read the third time.
              Pending the final vote thereon, and it appearing that there might be no quorum
                voting--
              Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, demanded a call of the House to determine a
                quorum--But--
              The SPEAKER (Mr. McDonald in the chair) directed the roll call to be continued till
                the bill was finally passed the House, yeas 59, nays 15.
              Mr. SIMPSON presented a claim which was referred without reading.
              Mr. CUNNINGHAM entered his motion to reconsider the vote postponing one of his
                bills--the number not given--and then--
              On motion of Mr. COX, at 5:20 o'clock, the House adjourned till Monday at two
                o'clock P. M.
              The following is the bill for redistricting the State for Senatorial and
                Representative purposes, introduced in the Senate on Wednesday by Mr. Williams, [S.
                196,] and in the House of Representative on Friday, by Mr. Cauthorn, [H. R.
                291]:
              AN ACT to amend Sections two and three of an act entitled, "An Act to fix the
                number of Senators and Representatives to the General  Assembly of the State of Indiana, and to apportion the
                same among the several counties of the State." approved February 26, 1867.
              SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of
                  the State of Indiana, That said section two be amended so as to read as
                follows, to wit: That said Senators shall be apportioned among the several counties
                of the States as follows, to wit: The counties of Posey and Gibson shall elect, 1;
                Vanderburg 1; Warrick and Spencer, 1; Knox and Daviess, 1; Pike and Dubois, 1;
                Perry, Crawford and Orange, 1; Lawrence, Monroe and Martin, 1; Brown and Jackson, 1;
                Washington and Harrison, 1; Floyd and Clark, 1; Scott and Jennings, 1 ; Jefferson,
                1; Switzerland and Ripley, 1; Ohio and Dearborn, 1: Franklin, 1; Fayette and Union,
                1; Rush and Decatur, 1; Shelby and Bartholomew, 1; Johnson and Morgan, 1; Greene and
                Owen, 1; Clay and Sullivan, 1: Vigo, 1; Putnam and Hendricks, 1; Parke, Vermillion
                and Warren, 1; Montgomery and Fountain, 1; Tippecanoe, 1; Clinton and Boone, 1;
                Marion, 2; Hancock and Madison, 1; Henry, 1; Wayne, 1; Randolph, 1; Delaware, 1;
                Hamilton and Tipton, 1; Howard and Carrell, 1; Cass and Fulton, 1; Pulaski, White,
                Benton, Jasper and Newton, 1; Lake and Porter, 1; Laporte and Starke, 1; St Joseph
                and Marshall, 1; Elkhart, 1; Kosciusko and Whitley, 1; Wabash and Miami, 1; Grant,
                Blackford and Jay, 1; Huntington and Wells, 1; Allen and Adams, 2; Noble and
                Lagrange, 1; Dekalb and Steuben, 1.
              SEC 2, That said sections be amended so as to read as follows,
                to-wit: That said Representatives shall be apportioned among the several counties of
                the State in the following manner, to-wit: The county of Posey shall elect 1;
                Vanderburg, 2; Warrick, 1; Gibson, 1; Pike and Dubois, 1; Knox, 1; Daviess, 1;
                Martin, 1; Spencer, 1; Perry, 1; Crawford and Orange, 1; Washington, 1; Harrison, 1;
                Floyd, 1; Clarke. 1; Floyd and Clarke, 1; Jefferson, 1; Clarke, Scott and Jefferson,
                1; Switzerland and Ohio. 1; Shelby, 1; Bartholomew and Shelby, 1; Dearborn, 1;
                Ripley, 1; Dearborn and Ripley,1; Franklin, 1; Rush, 1; Decatur, 1; Rush and
                Decatur, 1; Jennings,1; Bartholomew, 1; Brown and Jackson, 1; Monroe, 1; Laurence,
                1; Greene, 1; Sullivan, 1; Vigo, 2; Clay, 1; Owen, 1; Putnam, 1; Hendricks, 1;
                Putnam and Hendricks, 1; Morgan, 1; Johnson, 1; Morgan and Johnson, 1; Marion, 4;
                Hancock, 1; Henry, 1; Fayette and Union, 1; Wayne, 2; Randolph, 1; Delaware, 1;
                Madison, 1; Hamilton, 1; Parke, 1; Vermillion, 1; Montgomery, 1; Fountain, 1;
                Montgomery and Fountain, 1; Warren, 1; Tippecanoe, 2; Benton and White, 1; Cass, 1;
                Howard, 1; Miami,1; Wabash,1; Miami and Wabash, 1; Grant, 1; Blackford and Jay, 1;
                Wells, 1; Adams, 1; Huntington, 1; Allen, 2; Whitley, 1; Koscinsko, 1; Fulton, 1;
                Noble, 1; DeKalb, 1; Steuben, 1; Lagrange, 1; Elkhart, 1; Marshall, 1; St. Joseph,
                1; St. Joseph and Marshall, 1; LaPorte, 1; LaPorte and Starke, 1; Pulaski, Jasper
                and Newton, 1; Porter and Lake, 1.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            MONDAY, February 13, 1871.
          
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR took the Chair and commanded order--at 2 o'clock P.M.
          Chaplain service was conducted by Rev W. W. CRILEY, of the Lutheran Church.
          The Secretary's minutes of Friday's proceedings were read till--
          On motion by Mr MARTINDALE, the further reading thereof was dispensed with.
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            Mr. WILLIAMS presented a petition from citizens of Knox county on the subject of
              temperance, as follows:
            
              To the Senate of the State of Indiana:
            
            We, the undersigned citizens of Vincennes Knox county, in the State of Indiana,
              respectfully ask at your hands the enactment of a law suppressing the traffic of
              intoxicating liquors as a beverage, declaring such traffic criminal, with suitable
              provisions for the conviction and punishment of the offender.
            Mr. MARTINDALE presented a communication from the Superintendent of Public
              Instruction, suggesting early action on the bills proposing to amend the common school
              laws.
            Also by consent, a resolution setting apart Wednesday next for the consideration of
              these bills, to-wit:
            
              
                
                  Resolved. That Wednesday, February 15th, at 10 1/2 o'clock,
                    be made the hour and special order for the consideration of school bills, in the
                    following order, to-wit: Senate bills Nos 40, 41, 60, 107, 111; and House bill
                    No. 234 on the same subject
                
              
            
            The resolution was adopted.
            Mr. FRANCISCO presented the following:
            
              To the General Assembly of the State of Indiana:
            
            WHEREAS Various companies of interested persons in Jefferson
              county, and other parts of the State, who have heretofore procured unjust and illegal
              assessments to be made against the citizens thereof, for the pretended purpose of
              constructing gravel roads, are now attempting to legalize said unjust and illegal
              assessment conduct in the premises:
            Therefore, The undersigned citizens of said county, do petition
              your honorable body against the passage of any law, or laws, either local or general,
              to legalize in any manner the assessments so made by any gravel, plank, or
              maccadamized road company.
            Mr. FRANCISCO also presented two petitions, one with 140 names attached, concerning
              assessments for gravel road purposes, praying against the legalizing of such unjust
              assessments.
            Mr. MILLER presented a petition from Miami county, with some 400 and odd names
              attached, praying for favorable legislation on the subject of gravel roads.
            Mr. ROBINSON presented a pettion from citizens of Decatur county, remonstrating
              against legislation for curing informalities of gravel road assessments.
            Mr. ARMSTRONG presented a petition from 300 citizens of Howard county for a
              registration of marriages, births and deaths.
            Mr. COLLETT presented a petition as follows:
            
              To the General Assembly of the State of Indiana.
            
            Whereas, by reason of great diversity in the rules of practice in the courts of the
              various States of the Union, such as the prevalence of the common law practice in its
              purity in some courts, the same partly modified by statutes in others, the existence
              of a code practice in others, it is difficult for persons residing in one State to
              know his remedies in law for the enforcement of claims or rights in another State.
            And, whereas, it is impossible under the constitutional limitations for any one power
              in the Union to adopt and enforce one common system of procedure in the Courts
              throughout the different States.
            And, whereas, such common system or mode of procedure in the enforcement of rights
              and collection of claims would greatly simplify and facilitate court proceedings by
              bringing the system at once under the judicial investigation and criticism of the
              highest tribunals in all the States thus uniting the simplicity of the code with the
              "common judgment" of many tribunals.
            Therefore, your honorable body is respectfully petitioned to inaugurate legislation
              looking to the ultimate adoption by all the States of one common mode of procedure in
              the courts.
            Such legislation might properly begin by a joint resolution, directed to the
              legislatures of all the States, requesting them to appoint delegates to a convention
              which shall meet to devise, by careful comparison of the present laws, a code or
              system as aforesaid, to be reported to the Legislatures of the several States by their
              respective delgates for adoption.

            

            Such joint resolution might very properly provide for a time and place of meeting;
              compensation of delegates from our State, and other matters necessary to perfect the
              place.
            Believing the aforesaid object most worthy of your highest attention and
              consideration, I respectfully ask legislation accordingly.
            M. G. RHODES, of Vermillion Co.
            Mr. HENDERSON presented a petition, with 300 signatures, from Morgan county, on the
              subject of temperance.
            Mr TAYLOR presented a petition for the amendment of the divorce law.
            Mr. BEGGS presented a petition on the subject of gravel roads.
            These petitions were severally referred to the appropriate committees.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. BROWN, from the Committee on Corporations, returned Mr.
              Beardsley's bill [S 48] supplemental to the levee and drainage law of May 22, 1869,
              with numerous amendments.
            Mr. BEARDSLEY moved to dispense with the constitutional restriction that the bill may
              be read the second time by title, the third time by sections, and put upon its passage
              now.
            The motion was rejected--yeas 31, nays 10--two-thirds being required by a
              constitutional provision.
            The report goes to the files under a rule.
            Mr. FULLER, from the Committee on Roads, returned the bill [S.
              154], to legalize articles of association of turnpike or gravel road companies, to
              complete assessments, &c., recommending that it lie on the table. It was so
              ordered.
            Mr. CAVE, from the same Committee, returned the bill [S. 132], to amend the gravel
              road assessment act, with a similar recommendation--its provisions being contained in
              a bill heretofore reported upon favorably.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. GLESSNER, from the Committee on Fees and Salaries, returned
              the bill [S. 171], concerning rental of a Governor's residence, with a report
              favorable to its passage--Mr. Martindale dissenting. The report goes to the files.
            Mr. MARTINDALE, from the same committee returned the bill [S. 181] relating to the
              salaries of certain officers therein named with amendments,
            The report goes to the files.
            Mr. CAVEN, from the Committee on Claims, returned the bills [S.
              93] concerning the payment of certain claims against the swamp land fund, and the bill
              [S. 115 for returning this fund to the counties from which it was collected, which
              bills were referred to said committee with "instructions to inquire whether or not the
              fund mentioned in the bills does not belong to the school fund," the committee
              report:
            That they have had the same under consideration, and find the subject to be governed
              by section 2 of Article 8 of the Constitution ; also, section 29 of the Swamp Land act
              of 1852, and the committee are of opinion that the fund in the State Treasury to the
              credit of the "Swamp Land Fund," by virtue of the above recited provisions "does
              belong to the school fund" and for the purpose of placing such money to the credit of
              the school fund, they present the accompanying bill and recommend that it be adopted
              as a substitute for bill No. 115, and further recommend that No. 93 do lie on the
              table.
            Mr. GREEN resisted this report--it certainly was made under misapprehension of the
              law in the case. He moved to recommit the bill.
            On motion by Mr. CAVEN, the report and bills were referred to the Judiciary
              Committee.
            Mr. CARNAHAN, from the Committee on Claims, reported in favor of
              the Illinois Central Railroad Company claim for transporting troops.
            It was referred to the Committee on Finance, with instructions to
              incorporate the same in the specific appropriation bills.
            Mr. MARTINDALE, from the Committee on the Organization of Courts,
              returned the bill [H. R. 177], defining what counties shall constitute the 21st Common
              Pleas District, with a favorable report.
            It went to the files.
            Also the bill [S 37] to amend the act concerning the Judges of the Supreme Court,
              creating the Fifth District with a similar report--Messrs. Glessner and La Salle
              declining to join the report.
            It goes to the files.
            Also the bill [S. 28] to amend the same act and to re-district the State for a
              similar purpose, with a similar report Messrs. Gleesner and La Salle dissenting.
            It goes to the files.
          
          
            RAILROAD EXTENSION.
            Mr. ANDREWS, from the Committee on Railroads, returned the bill
              [H. R. 79] to extend the time for the completion of certain railroads and to legalize
              the acts of their Board of Directors, with an amendment.
            On motion by Mr. CARNAHAN the order of business was suspended and the amendment being
              again read, that the provisions of this act shall not affect the right or interests of
              railroad companies over such roads as have been opened and put into operation by said
              companies.
            The omendment was concurred in.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved to amend by providing that all railroads organized under the
              laws of this State shall elect a majority of their directors from citizens of this
              State.
            Mr. CARNAHAN could not see that the bill affects any railroad in the State but one in
              his district, and opposed this amendment to this bill.
            Mr. BRADLEY also opposed the amendment for the reason that it is not exactly germane
              to the bill--it is what the constitution refers to as a rider, and therefore would be
              unconstitutional.
            Mr. MARTINDALE thought if the amendment be embraced in the title it would be
              constitutional, and if adopted would save him the trouble of framing a bill to cover
              this ground.
            Mr. WILLIAMS stated that he has a bill embracing the point desired to be made by  this amendment, and should introduce it the first
              opportunity, and thereupon--
            Mr. MARTINDALE withdrew his amendment.
            The bill was then ordered engrossed by consent.
            Mr. CARNAHAN moved for a dispensation of the constitutional restriction that the bill
              may be considered as engrossed, read the third time, and put upon its passage now.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 38, nays 1.
            The bill was then read the third time and finally passed the Senate by yeas 38, nays
              1.
            Mr. ANDREWS, from the Committee on Railroads, returned Mr.
              Collett's bill [S. 152] to extend the time for completion of railroads in cases in
              which the time has been heretofore extended and the roads are not yet finished, with
              amendments.
            On motion of Mr. COLLETT, the order of business being suspended by consent, the
              amendments were concurred in.
            Mr. COLLETT moved that the constitutional restriction be suspended that the bill may
              be pressed to its third reading now. He was understood to say that it would affect
              only one railroad; one in which his people felt a great interest.
            Mr. HADLEY joined in the desire that this bill may be pressed to its passage at
              once.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas, 40 ; nays, 0.
            The bill was then read the third time, and passed the Senate by yeas, 37; nays,
              1.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            Mr. HENDERSON, from the select committee thereon, returned the fee and salary bill
              [S. 4] with sundry amendments, and a recommendation that it pass, and that the order
              of be suspended and the bill be considered now.
            The report was concurred in.
            The title of the bill was read, for the second reading.
            Mr. HOOPER moved to amend section 23 by striking out the words "day of each month"
              and inserting in lieu the words, "Mondays in June and December" as the times of the
              reports to be made by County Treasurers. He desired but two reports a year instead of
              one on the first day of each month. It is no small matter to make this report. He
              thought one report a year--as the law now stands--is all that is needed. This bill
              requires the treasurer to show the precise condition of every fund he collects, and
              that is not an easy matter to do, for he has probably eight or ten different funds to
              collect. These reports can not be made in an hour nor in a day. The Treasurer would
              have to shut up his office, stop receiving taxes and it would require him and the
              Auditor several days to make out this report. An experienced officer has written that
              it would require six or seven days. A report once a year would be satisfactory to his
              constituents.
            Mr. HENDERSON stated that the committee agreed to amend the bill so as to require
              four reports a year, and the people that often should be enabled to understand the
              condition of the treasury. He hoped the amendment would not prevail.
            The amendment was rejected by nays, 13; yeas, 29.
            The committee amendment to section 28, which allows to the Auditor, for deputy hire
              the sum of one hundred dollars for each one thousand inhabitants exceeding ten
              thousand, and proposing to add the words, "or fractional part thereof over five
              hundred," was concurred in.
            As was, also, the committee amendment, adding to section thirty these words: provided
              that in any county where the whole fees of the clerk or sheriff amounts in the
              aggregate to less than one thousand dollars, the Board of Commissioners may, in their
              discretion, allow such officers an amount including such fees not exceeding in the
              aggregate one thousand dollars, and such allowances shall not exceed three hundred
              dollars in any one year."
            Mr. BOBO moved to amend by providing that when the population does not exceed 15,000
              the county officers shall retain all legal fees. He could see no use in requiring the
              officers of these smaller counties to put their money in the treasury and take it out
              again. Making this kind of labor for nothing, in probably thirty or more counties in
              the State, he was compelled to object to putting these smaller counties through the
              maneuver proposed in this bill.
            Mr. GREEN hoped the amendmend will not prevail, for it will destroy the harmony of
              the bill. He thought the fees were about right under the old law; but there was a
              singular kind of taking fees that was done only by construction, which the people were
              begining to think smacked considerable of corruption.
            Mr. GLESSNER also hoped the amendment would fail. The present bill affords ample
              compensation to officers of counties of 15,000 inhabitants. He should oppose
              amendments to this bill, for he regarded it as perfect as could be made, and disliked
              to see its harmony destroyed.
            Mr. BOBO admired harmony as much as any gentleman, but he desired to see justice done
              the officials in smaller counties. His amendment would save an immense stationery
              bill, and a vast amount of labor, which would be a burden and an expense without the
              bringing of any revenue into the county treasuries.
            Mr. HOOPER regarded this bill as working a hardship so far as the clerk and sheriffs
              of these smaller counties are concerned it proposes work that is oppressive and wrong.
              He could not see that the harmony of the bill would be destroyed by simply leaving out
              of the bill these smaller counties, and making it apply only to counties of over
              15,000 people. If these requirements are made of these smaller counties he regarded it
              as his duty to vote against the bill, as much as he desired that a perfect fee and
              salary bill should pass.
            The amendment was rejected by yeas 11, nays 29.

            

            The committee's amendment to the title was concurred in.
            Mr. JOHNSTON moved to amend by inserting a section making the fees of the Sheriffs of
              the Supreme Court the same as Sheriffs of the Circuit Courts for similar service.
            On motion of Mr. GLESSNER it was laid on the table.
            Mr. WOOD moved to amend by inserting $2,000 where $1,500 occurs, as salaries of
              county officers, "except as provided in this act."
            Mr. ---- moved to lay this amendment on the table.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 31, nays 9.
            Mr. ANDREWS moved to amend the section relating to the fees of constables by
              increasing his fees "for serving summons" from 25 cents to 35 cents; for "serving
              executions," from 25 cents to 35 cents; for "sale of goods," from 25 to 50 cents; for
              "summoning a jury," from 50 to 75 cents; "for attending jury trial," from 35 to 50
              cents; cents; for "attending trial," from 25 to 50 cents. He was of opinion that the
              Senate was passing over the fees of these officers too rapidly. Many salaries were
              made higher than heretofore. The compensation to this officer has always been too low,
              and now as it is a necessary office, let us give him a fair compensation.
            Mr. ROSEBRUGH opposed all raising of fees above their present standard, for we have
              no difficulty in getting officers under the present laws. Then the costs of litigation
              are enough already, and any attempt to increase them will not meet with the approval
              of the people generally. The people should have as cheap justice as can be had
              consistently.
            Mr. MARTINDALE thought most of these amendments were just, and should be
              adopted--they come off the parties sued, and would probably be the means of securing
              better constables.
            Mr. ANDREWS insisted that the services of these men in seeking to procure justice
              should be recognized by a reasonable compensation.
            The amendments were agreed to, by yeas 24, nays 16.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved that the constitutional restrictions be dispensed with, that the
              bill may be read the third time and put upon its passage now.
            The motion was rejected by yeas 30, nays 11--two-thirds not voting in the affirmative
              as required by the constitutional provision.
            The bill was then ordered to be engrossed for the third reading.
          
          
            GRAVEL ROADS.
            Mr. GREGG offered a resolution as follows:
            
              
                
                  WHEREAS, A number of petitions from the people have reached the General
                    Assembly since Senate bill No. 119 has been reported back to the Senate from the
                      Committee on Roads, to which it was referred, setting forth
                    that the passage of a law upon the subject involved in said bill would
                    materially affect their rights and interests, therefore--
                  Resolved, That this bill, together with laid petitions be
                    referred to the Committee on Rights and Privileges, with
                    instructions the investigate the objects and prayers of the petitioners on this
                    subject.
                
              
            
            Mr. DWIGGINS moved to lay the resolution on the table.
            The yeas and nays were demanded and ordered, pending which Mr. interposed a motion to
              adjourn.
            This motion was agreed to by yeas 21, nays 19.
            So the Senate adjourned till 10 o'clock tomorrow morning.
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            MONDAY, February 13, 1871.
          
          The House met at 2 o'clock P. M., pursuant to adjournment.
          The order of the reading of the journal of Friday, by the Clerk, proceeded till--
          On motion of Mr. RHODES, its further reading was dispensed with.
          The SPEAKER then pursued the calendar.
          
            ROAD TAX.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Wayne's road tax bill [H. R. 154], was read the third time.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Wayne, said it reduces the price of road work to $1 25 per day; and it
              provides for consolidating work in the most desirable places in any district in the
              township.
            Mr. KENNEDY. It gives the taxing power to the Supervisors and the Township Trustees.
              It is a new feature in regard to the Supervisors. It has one good feature that the tax
              shall be worked out in the district where collected, if convenient, &c. But
              because it provides for levy on land by the acre, I prefer the old law.
            Mr. MARTIN of Wayne, defended the justice of taxing by the acre. It brings resident
              and non-resident land owners on an equality.
            Mr. TAYLOR said he thought the special committee on this subject would be able to
              report an acceptable bill in a few days, and on his motion the bill was passed
              over.
          
          
            INSURANCE BUREAU.
            On motion of Mr. ZENOR, (the restrictions being suspended for the purpose,) Mr.
              Barnaby's Insurance Regulation bill, [H. R. 163,] and Mr. Browning's Court bill, were
              taken up for final consideration.
            Mr. WILSON stating that the former bill is for the establishment of an Insurance
              Bureau for the protection of the people in regard to insurance. Between seven and ten
              millions of dollars go out of the State annually for the payment of premiums; and we
              have no insurance law. This bill seeks to keep at home this capital. It would save to
              the people perhaps $200,000 annually Besides paying the officers of the bureau it
              would leave perhaps as much as $125,000 in the treasury every year, more than
              sufficient to pay the expenses of a regular session of the General Assembly.
            The bill [H. R. 163] was read through by sections.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, stated the importance of the bill. He was in favor of  legitimate insurance business, and opposed to
              wildcating in any shape. But this bill was too long, and showed the doors it opens to
              fraud. We ought not to pass it hastily. It is so long that it requires more than
              ordinary consideration.
            Mr. KENNEDY also said it was too long. The insurance humbug was great, and should be
              regulated. The bill should be printed.
            The SPEAKER. If there is no amendment, this will be the third reading.
            Mr. WILSON said the bill had been before the committee, and it was reported on
              favorably.
            The bill provides all the restrictions and safeguards for the protection of policy
              holders, and the same thorough investigations and careful supervision that is required
              by the laws of New York, Massachusetts and Connecticut. It will prevent the starting
              of bogus or unsound companies in our State, as well as prevent such institutions from
              sending their agents here to do business. It will encourage the building up of sound
              companies at home by honest men, and by so doing will not only save a vast drainage of
              money from the State, but will draw largely from other sections of the country money
              that is now going East to get reliable insurance.
            The bill further provides that every company, before it is permitted to do business
              in the State, shall file with the Secretary of State a copy of their charter, which
              the Secretary is required to record in a suitable book kept for such purpose, for
              which each company shall pay a fee of twenty-five dollars; all other States that have
              any laws upon the subject of insurance require the same, and the fees allowed therefor
              range from $30 to $50.
            The bill further provides that the State Treasurer shall, in his official capacity,
              recieve the deposits for the security of policy holders required by the act, and also
              collect the taxes imposed upon the companies of other States doing business in this
              State, keeping thereof a seperate account designated "the insurance fund" for which
              services the bill allows a salary of $900 per annum. All States having any laws upon
              the subject require the same services, and inmost cases allow a greater
              compensation.
            The Auditor of State issues all certificates of authority to transact business in the
              State, but only upon a certificate from the Insurance Commissioner certifying that he
              has made the required examinations and finds the company in a sound and solvent
              condition,and that all the laws applicable to such company has been fully complied
              with. For each certificate of authority issued the Auditor is allowed a fee of $5,
              which is less than the fee allowed for like services in most other States, and is not
              as much as the fees now allowed the Auditor in this State.
            The bill provides that the Auditor of State shall appoint a suitable person to act as
              "Insurance Commissioner," who shall give bond in the sum of $20,000 for the faithful
              performance of his duty. He is required to examine all companies desiring to do
              business in this State, and by applying all the known tests, determines that companies
              are perfectly sound and able to meet their engagements, before they can get authority
              to transact business in the State. He is allowed a salary of $3,000 per annum and some
              fees for examinations and seal of office that may amount to $1,000 or $1,500 more. The
              State of New York allows the Insurance Commissioner $5,000 dollars and additional
              fees. Massachusetts allows the Commission $5,000 per annum, Connecticut allows $5,000
              and additional fees, Missouri $5,000 and additional fees, Kentucky $4,000 and
              additional fees, California $6,000 in gold. These are all the States that have as yet
              created the office of Insurance Commissioner, and the compensation allowed in every
              case is greater than the amount allowed by this bill.
            The bill provides that "the State shall not be responsible for the establishment or
              future maintenance of the Insurance Department, or for any services required in the
              execution of this act, but the same shall be paid by the fees and taxes assessed upon
              companies doing business in this State, and after such necessary expenses as provided
              by the bill have been paid, the balance remaining shall be placed in the general
              treasury with the other revenues of the State."
            The bill requires the payment of the following fees and taxes, viz:
            
              
                For Recording Charter or deed of settlement, in Secretaries
                  office........................
                $25 00
              
              
                For Annual Reports of condition, valuations,
                  &c.......................................
                30 00
              
              
                For Certificates of Authority or License to
                  Agents........................................
                5 00
              
            
            For all companies organized out of the State, a tax of two per cent. on net premiums
              receivee in this State.
            The above fees and taxes are less than are reqaired by most other States that have
              legislated upon the subject, and yet it is believed to be sufficient to defray all the
              expense of carefull and thorough examination of companies and a rigid enforcement of
              the law, and leave a balance to the peoples' credit in the Treasury of from forty to
              fifty thousand dollars per annum. The aim is not to prohibit good companies from
              coming here to do business, but to subject them to wholesome restrictions and
              supervision, and to equitable taxation.
            Mr. ST. JOHN inquired in relation to the security. He understood that this
              requirement of the bill, as to the security, applies to all insurance companies,
              whether doing business in this State or elsewhere.
            Mr. WILSON. Yes.
            Mr. ST. JOHN. In what does it consist, and where filed?
            Mr. WILSON. It is to be filed with the Secretary of State, and is just such security
              as that required of any corporation. After rehearsing its several provisions, he
              insisted upon the passage of the bill, from various consideration, in addition to the
              statement given before, and of premiums annually paid to companies doing business out
              of the State, etc., as compared with the amount of  losses which have been paid to citizens of the State.
            Mr. McDONALD considered that the bill had been prepared with sufficient care, and
              would prefer the previous question, but objection to being made; he proceeded to
              insist upon its passage from the consideration that it is entirely safe and desirable
              for the protection of the people of the State.
            Mr. KNIGHT. Is two per cent. of the net premiums to be taxed on all foreign
              companies, and does it not, at last, take that out of the pockets of the people of the
              State?
            Mr. McDONALD. In part, indirectly; but now they take it all from us. It is not
              expected that they will change their rates. More than that, we will make these
              companies responsible; we will have these companies on an acknowledged sound
              basis.
            Mr. WASHBURN. What is the amount required to be deposited to do business?
            Mr. McDONALD One hundred thousand dollars--in United States bonds, State
              stocks--something that has a bottom.
            Mr. WASHBURN would not vote for a bill that has not such a provision.
            Mr. ST. JOHN. Every man knows that this principle and these premium notes to mutual
              companies have been utter failures.
            Mr. WILSON said the notes were to be secured by mortgage.
            Mr. ST. JOHN. The history of all mutual companies show them to have been swindling
              concerns; and these organizations he insisted, have been made upon the same principle
              for security as proposed in this bill.
            Mr. WILSON. The object of the bill is to protect the people against such
              concerns.
            Mr. ST. JOHN stated that he felt the same objection to the bill that lies against all
              mutual companies. They take these premium notes as a matter of form--but who does not
              know that they come for the payment of every one of them? Where do the securities of
              the company come from, if not from these votes?
            Mr. SIMPSON, with others, said he had not been present with the committee when this
              bill was considered.
            Mr. WILSON. The notice of the meeting was given.
            Mr. SIMPSON could not vote for the bill if it were now rushed through under the
              previous question.
            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to print, and make the bill the special order for Friday.
            Mr. BARNABY said the bill is a literal copy from the Insurance law of Massachusetts,
              which is said to be the best in the country.
            Mr. WILSON preferred Wednesday at 2 o'clock.
            Mr. ST. JOHN proposed to amend bywords to this effect: "So that such notes as are
              deposited, and any part of the capital stock of any such company shall be secured by
              mortgage on real estate; and such notes shall not be taken out of deposit unless
              others equally well secured be deposited in their stead."
            Mr. BARNABY proposed Thursday, 2 o'clock.
            Mr. WILLIAMS accepted, and so by unanimous consent the bill was ordered to be
              printed, and made the special order for Thursday, 2 o'clock.
            Mr. BROWNING asked and obtained leave to withdraw his court bill indicated in Mr.
              Zenor's motion to suspend the restrictions.
          
          
            INTEREST OF THE WIFE.
            Mr. COPNER'S bill [H. R. 142] to amend sections 18, 24, 25 and 26 of the act
              regulating descents and the apportionment of estates, was read the third time.
            Mr. COPNER. It changes the law but in one respect. It is to secure to the wife the
              profits of her own labor, inserting these words: "of her own labor, or by her own
              business."
            Mr. BALLENGER. This is a very just provision. We all know that the separate earnings
              of the wife are not now protected by statute; but the husband may appropriate them. I
              think the bill entirely equitable and just, and ought to have been passed long ago. It
              is simple justice to married women. They should be protected not only in what has
              descended to them, but also in their own earnings.
            Mr. NEFF suggested that it might disturb the domestic relations.
            The bill finally passed the House of Representatives--yeas 55, nays 17.
          
          
            APPEALS.
            Mr. Calkins of Porter's bill [H. R. 188] to provide for appeals in certain cases from
              the County Boards of Equalization, was read the third time.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, said there is no law for appeals from the decisions of the
              Board regarding the appraisement of realty. After the Board passes upon it the
              decision is final. This is to supply that defect in the law.
            The bill was finally passed yeas 66, nays 4.
            Mr. Cox's bill [H. R. 185] for the relief of George L. Rider and Maria B. Rider, was
              read the third time.
            Mr. COX explained, and the bill was finally passed--yeas, 73; nays, none.
          
          
            INDIANAPOLIS GAS COMPANY.
            Mr. King's Indianapolis Gas Company charter amendment bill [H. R. 128] was read the
              third time and finally passed the House yeas, 73; nays, none.
            Mr. Stone's bill [H. R. 40] to amend section 7, of chapter 170, of the act for the
              election or appointment of supervisors of highways, etc., was read the third time and
              passed the House--yeas, 75; nays, 13.
          
          
            DITCHING ASSOCIATIONS.
            Mr. TAYLOR, alledging the necessity of a drainage law since the repeal of the other
              day, said he had since prepared a bill following somewhat the law of 1852, which has
              been adjudicated upon by the Supreme Court. It was getting late in the session, and he
              asked and obtained leave to introduce it, to-wit: A bill [H. R. 315] for an act to
              authorize and encourage the construction of 
              levees, dykes, drains and ditches for the reclamation of wet and overflowed lands, and
              for the organization of associations, &c.
            Mr. CALKIN'S, of Porter, desired that it should be referred to the Committee
                on Swamp Lands, but on
            Motion of Mr. BALLENGER, it was referred to the Committee on Dykes and
                Drains.
            Mr. St. John's bill, [H. R. 132], to repeal the proviso in section 2 of the act to
              amend section 2 of an act in relation to making the registry of sales of Michigan road
              lands, and copies thereof evidence, &c.--coming up on the third reading--
            Mr. BIGGS opposed the passage of the bill, from considerations heretofore urged by
              him.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, said the three years limitation was not, perhaps, the
              principal objection to the section proposed to be repealed; but it is in this: there
              are thousands of instances in which persons living can testify to the handwriting of
              deeds; and in such cases unless they are of record, they are useless as so much blank
              paper. They can not be produced in evidence, and that is the reason why the law ought
              to be repealed.
            Mr. ST. JOHN, as author of the bill, gave his reasons for it; giving examples.
            Mr. BALLENGER said the proviso in this section was of the character of special
              legislation. There was no more reason for it than there could be found for changing
              the law in regard to promissory notes, bills of exchange, &c
            The bill was finally passed the House--yeas 56, nays 11.
            Mr. Gordon of Cass' bill [H. R. 43], to provide for holding Roman Catholic Churches
              Seminaries, &c., coming up on the third reading--
            On the motion of Mr. NEFF (he being requested to make the motion in the absence of
              Mr. Cauthorn) the bill was passed over.
          
          
            THE CALENDAR.
            Mr. Tebbs' bill (H. R. 97) to amend section 27of the common school law--a proposition
              to condemn lands for sites.
            Mr. Browning's bill (H. R. 85) to provide for the sale of lands delinquent, for the
              nonpayment of taxes, &c.
            Mr. Cunningham's bill (H. R. 77) to amend chapter 7 of the act concerning
              misdemeanors by an additional section.
            Mr. Calkins of Porter's bill, [H. R. 83,] to provide for the protection of shade
              trees
            Mr. Ruddell's bill, [H. R. 139,] to provide for the encouraging of manufacturing,
              mining and elevating.
            Mr. McDonald's bill, [H. R. 287,] for payment into the general fund of moneys
              belonging to the State Debt Sinking Fund.
            Mr. Barnaby's bill, [H. R. 211,] to amend section 97 of the Common School law.
            Mr. Holland's bill, [H. R 205,] releasing the interest of the State in the land
              formerly owned by Ralph Turner, deceased.
            Mr. Haynes' bill [H. R. 215] supplemental to the act regulating descents.
            Mr. Ballenger's bill [H. R. 262] to amend the individual flouring mill act.
            These bills were severally ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. McDonald's bill [H. R. 116] for a fifth Supreme Judge coming up,
            Mr. McDONALD said, as the fifth Supreme Court district was not provided for he would
              move to lay the bill on the table.
            It was so ordered by consent.
            Mr. Taughinbaugh's bill [H. R 159] to amend section 8 of the act touching the laying
              out and vacating of streets, alleys and public squares was read the second time, and
              ordered to the engrossment.
            On motion of Mr. STEPHENSON, his fees and salaries bill [H. R. 206]--and, at the
              suggestion of the Speaker, all other bills of the House in relation to the fees and
              salaries of county officers--were taken up, and made the special order for to morrow,
              10 o'clock.
            Mr. TEBBS' bill [H. R. 97] to amend section 27 of the common school law, coming up on
              the second reading--
            Mr. WASHBURN proposed to amend by a clause to this effect: "That when a majority of
              the school voters of the ward or district petition the trustee for the erection of a
              graded school house, and the trustee shall disregard the prayer of their petition, by
              building not in accordance therewith, the amount of the townships fund so appropriated
              by him may be recovered of the trustee in any court having competent jurisdiction.
            After debate on this amendment by Mr. Washburn, and by Messrs. McDonald, Britton and
              others in opposition, the amendment was rejected and the bill was ordered to the
              engrossment.
            The SPEAKER announced the special Committee on Mr. Holland's court
                bill, namely: Messrs. Holland, Deputy, Monroe, Simpson, Bruner, and
              Hartley.
            The Special Committee on Mr. McDonald's resolution, namely:
              Messrs. McDonald, Stone, St. John, Henderson and Davidson.
            And then at 5:50 o'clock the House adjourned.
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            TUESDAY. February 14, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A. M.
          No one appearing to offer prayers--
          The journal of yesterday was read.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR announced the pending question at the adjournment last night,
            viz: The motion to lay on the table Mr. Gregg's resolution to recommit the gravel road
            assessment bill [S. 119], to the Committee on Roads.
          The motion was rejected by yeas 14, nays 23.
           Mr. ROSEBROGH demanded the previous question on the adoption of the resolution, and 22
            Senators seconding this demand--
          The resolution was adopted by yeas 23, nays 19.
          Mr. ROSEBRUGH moved to reconsider this vote and lay the latter motion on the table.
          The latter motion was rejected upon a division, affirmation 14, negative 22.
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR laid before the Senate memorials from the representatives of
              the yearly meeting of Friends held at Plainfield, 2d month, 2d day, 1871, on the
              subject of divorces--praying for more stringent laws. Also on prisons and prison
              discipline--praying for general moral supervision--separation of male and female
              prisoners, etc.
            Mr. FULLER presented a petition asking susprnding of a tax for a North and South
              Railroad, from citizens of Warrick county.
            Mr. MARTINDALE presented claims from the Adjutant General and from Barbour &
              Jacobs.
            Mr. BEESON presented a petition from Sullivan county on the subject of
              temperance.
            These were appropriately referred.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. HOOPER, from the Judiciary Committee, returned the bill (S. 72) to amend section
              16 of the act supplemental to the alienation of real property--concerning the interest
              of insane wives, recommending that it lie on the table.
            Mr. BRADLEY, from the Committee on Education, returned the bill
              (S. 111) to provide for a more extended system of college education, with a similar
              report.
            Also, the bill (S. 183) to amend section 108 of the Common School law, with a similar
              report, its provisions being incorporated in a bill heretofore reported favorably
              on.
            These reports were concurred in.
            Mr. CARNAHAN, from the Committee on corporations, returned the
              bill (S. 192) authorizing certain drainage companies to amend their articles of
              incorporation, with a favorable report.
            Mr. ARMSTRONG, from the same committee, returned the bill (S. 180) declaring certain
              public squares to be a grant to common school purposes, with a favorable report.
            Mr. MORGAN, from the standing Committee on Agriculture, returned
              the bill, [S. 153], to provide for the organization of a school for feeble minded
              children, with a favorable report.
            Mr. KEIGWIN, from the Committee on Public Printing, returned the
              bill [S.147], for publishing allowances of Boards of County Commissioners, with
              amendments--Mr. Hooper dissenting.
            Mr. LASSELLE, from the Committee on Organization of Courts,
              returned the bill, [S. 197], creating the 26th Judicial District, with amendments.
            Mr. GLESSNER, from the Committee on Railroads, returned the bill
              [S. 131] supplemental to the valuation and taxation act, with a favorable report.
            These reports went to the files.
          
          
            FEMALE SUFFRAGE.
            Mr. FULLER, from a majority of the Select Committee thereon, returned sundry
              petitions in favor of female suffrage, reporting that they regard the submission of
              said question to the people as undesirable and inexpedient at this time.
            Mr. BEESON, from the same committee, in obedience to the imperative demand of a
              resolution of the Senate, reported a joint resolution proposing an amendment to the
              Constitution of the State by adding to the 2d article a provision granting to women of
              21 years of age and upwards the right to vow.
            It is as follows:
            
              
                
                  A Joint Resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution, by adding to the
                    second article a section conferring on women of the age of twenty-one years and
                    upwards, the right to vote

                  

                  Be it resolved by the General Assembly of the State of
                      Indiana, That the following amendment be and hereby is proposed to the
                    Constitution of this State, and the same be and is hereby agreed to and
                    submitted to the electors of the State for their ratification or rejection:
                    Provided, The same shall be agreed to by a majority of all the members
                    comprising each house of the next regular General Assemble of this State; said
                    amendment to consist of the addition of the following section to the second
                    article of the Constitution, in the language following, viz:
                  In all elections provided for by this Constitution, every female citizen of the
                    United States, of the age of twenty-one and upwards, who shall have resided in
                    the State during the six months immediately preceding such election, and every
                    female of foreign birth, of the age of twenty-one years and upwards, who shall
                    have resided in the United States one year, and shall hare resided in this State
                    during six months immediately preceding such election, and shall have declared
                    her intention to besome a citizen of the United States, conformably to the laws
                    of the United States, on the subject of naturalization, shall be entitled to
                    vote in the township or precinct where she may reside.
                
              
            
            Mr. BEESON moved to make the whole subject the special order for 2 1/2 o'clock
              tomorrow.
            It was so ordered.
          
          
            BREVIER REPORTS.
            Mr. BRADLEY offered the following:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the Brevier Reporter be supplied with such
                    printed matter and stationery as may be furnished members.
                
              
            
            It was adopted nemine contradicente.
          
          
            OLD INTERNAL IMPROVEMENT BONDS.
            Mr. DENBO offered a preamble and resolution as follows:
            
              
                
                  WHEREAS, It has been asserted by some Senators on this floor
                    that there are three hundred or more of the old Internal Improvement bonds (not
                    included in the number of one hundred and ninety-one mentioned in the Governor's
                    message to the General Assemby as being the true amount outstanding) held by
                    parties in Chicago and elsewhere, which the books show no account of, and if the
                    statements made by Senators be true that fact has been kept from the people.
                    Therefore,
                  Be it resolved, By the Senate that His Excellency, the
                    Governor, be requested to communicate to the Senate all the information on this
                    subject in his possession, and that he ascertain (if possible) whether any
                    parties in Chicago or elewhere hold any of these old Internal Improvement bonds,
                    not included in the number one hundred and ninety-one mentioned in the
                    Governor's message, and whether any party or parties have sent any of these
                    bonds to be held by the banking house in New York which is now transacting the
                    business of Agent of State, or to any other banking house in New York, and that
                    he report at his earliest convenience as full and complete a history of the
                    issuing of these bonds as he can.
                
              
            
            Mr. STEELE moved to include in the direction of the resolution the Agent of
              State.
            Mr. DENBO accepted the amendment.
            The resolution as amended was adopted.
          
          
            JOHN SARINGHAUSEN.
            Mr. WADGE offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the Committee on
                Claims report what allowance, if any, should be made to John Saringhausen
              for defending the right to his seat in this body.
          
          
            NEWSPAPERS.
            Mr. LASSELLE offered a resolution directing the doorkeeper to contract for two
              additional copies of the Daily JOURNAL and Daily Sentinel, wrapped and stamped, to be
              laid on the desks of Senators.
            It was adopted.
          
          
            21ST COMMON PLEAS.
            Mr. MILLER moved to suspend the order of business for the consideration of the 21st
              Common Pleas District bill [H. R.177]Fulton, Kosciusko and Wabash.
            The motion was agreed to. The bill was read the second time.
            On the further motion by Mr. MILLER, the constitutional restriction was dispensed
              with, the bill read the third time, and passed by yeas 39, nays 1.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            Mr. MARTINDALE, stating that the House has a special order for to-morrow to consider
              the subject of fees and salaries, and that it is important for the Senate to act upon
              that matter at once, moved for a suspension of the order of business that the Fee and
              Salary bill, S. 4, be taken up and put on its passage.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 25, nays 18.
            The bill was then read the third time.
            Mr. HENDERSON demanded the previous question.
            The demand was seconded, and under the operation of the previous question the bill
              was passed the Senate by yeas 37, nays 10 as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Alsop, Andrews, Armstrong, Beardsley, Beeson,
                    Beggs. Bradley. Brown, Bird, Caven, Denbo, Dougherty, Dwiggins, Francisco,
                    Fuller, Glessner, Gray, Green, Gregg, Hadley, Henderson, Hess, Hubbard, Johnson,
                    Keigwin, Lasselle, Martindale. Miller, Morgan, Robinson, Rosebrugh, Scott,
                    Steele, Straud, Taylor, Williams, and Wood--37.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Bobo, Carnahan, Case, Cave, Collett,
                    Dittemore, Elliott, Fosdick, Hooper, and Wadge--10.
                
              
            
            Mr. BOBO, in explanation, said: I have endeavored to have the consideration of this
              bill postponed until this afternoon, and failed. The bill came from the committee
              yesterday ; was not read; has just been received as engrossed; no Senator can vote on
              the bill as reported with amendments, and on third reading, without examining the
              bill, unless he votes without knowing what it contains. Aside from this, the bill is
              unconstitutional. I read from the Constitution of Indiana, article four, section
              twenty-two, "the General Assembly shall not pass any local or special laws in any of
              the following cases; that is to say, in relation to fees or salaries." It has for its
              sole object the purpose of reducing salaries in large counties where the county
              officers receive large amounts. Well, if this has been avoided by generalities, there
              is another provision of the Constitution which it violates: Constitution of Indiana,
              Art. 1, section 12, "all courts shall be open. * * * Justice shall be administered
              freely and without purchase, completely and without denial, speedily and without
              delay."
            When a man is so unfortunate as to go into court to defend a right to person,
              property or liberty, or to secure a right of person,  property or liberty, and has costs to pay, one part goes
              to pay the officers, and the other part goes into the county treasury, as a tax on the
              administration of Justice. And again, all property is taxed. Now by this bill,where a
              man dies, in the settlement of his estate. If the costs are $50, $25 go to pay the
              officers of the Probate Court, and $25 go into the county treasury; so then, by the
              bill, the suitor bays for justice a tax, and the heirs to an estate pay a double tax.
              This, I think, puts a price on justice, and comes clearly within the provision of the
              constitution, and puts it out of our power to pass the law. These are the reasons I
              vote "no."
            Mr. DENBO, in explanation of his vote when his name was called, said:
            MR. PRESIDENT: There are some sections of this bill that don't meet my approbation,
              but if we are to pass any bill on this important subject, during this session, I think
              we will have to accept this bill. The Committee on Fees and
                Salaries have had this bill before them two or three times, and spent a
              great deal of time on it in perfecting the same, and then a special committee was
              appointed and that committee has spent considerable time in trying to perfect this
              bill. I have been a member of all these committees, and have spent more time on this
              subject than any other before this Senate, and I have got tired of this question, I
              believe the bill is as good as the committe can get it, and I believe as good as the
              Senate can make it. I therefore vote aye.
            Mr. DITTEMORE, when his name was called, in explanation of his vote said, he was
              dispesed to favor retrenchment and reform, but not disposed to be forced to vote on
              the passage of a bill without opportunity being given to examine the numerous
              amendments offered to it. So many amendments have been made to it that it is difficult
              for members to vote upon it with a proper understanding. He was opposed to this gag
              law, and after the hasty manner in which this vote has been brought about he was
              compelled to vote "no."
            Mr. ELLIOTT, in explanation of his vote, when his name was called, said he had not
              time to examine this bill and in addition, for reasons presented by the Senator from
              Allen and Adams (Mr. Bobo) he would vote "no."
            Mr. FOSDICK, when his name was called, in explanation of his vote, said, in view of
              the fact that this bill has come back from a committee which proposed a number of
              amendments to it, and that the bill is being voted for under pressure of the previous
              question without Senators having an opportunity of examining it, and not knowing what
              the provisions of the bill are not having an opportunity to examine the bill since it
              came from the committee, he should vote "no."
            Mr. GLESSNER, in explanation, said: This bill is No. 4, one of the first introduced,
              and it has been printed and laid upon the table of every Senator, from time to time
              referred to committees, and thoroughly examined. The amendments reported in the last
              day or two are not importantonly changing some fees from three to five cents: and if
              the bill were to lay here three months, Senators would be no better informed than they
              are to-day. Therefore he voted "aye."
            Mr. GRAY, when his name was called, in explanation of his vote, said this is not such
              a bill as he would like to vote for, but thought it the best we could get this
              session, and he should vote for it trusting that future legislation will cure its
              defects.
            Mr. LASSELLE, when his name was called, said: Mr. President, I would say in
              explanation of my vote, that, while there are general provisions and features in the
              bill which I do not approve, yet, on the whole, it seems to be as near perfect as we
              can expect to get it during the present session of the Legislature. And as it is to
              some extent, a compliance with the demands of the people upon the subject, and at
              least a step in the right direction, I will give it my support, with the expectation
              that its defects, whatever they may be, will be remedied by such proper legislation as
              experience may dictate, at no distant day. I therefore vote "aye."
            Mr. ROSEBRUGH in explanation said that there were some features in this bill he was
              not pleased with, but believing we have got to take this bill or nothing at this
              session, he should vote "aye."
            Mr. STEELE would vote "aye" for fear the bill would get lonnger than it is already.
              (Laughter.)
            Mr. WADGE in explanation of his vote said there were certainly some features in this
              bill which he heartily approved, and would like to vote for; at the same time there
              are others somewhat objectionable. For the latter reason he was compelled to vote
              "no."
            Mr. WOOD, when his name was called in explanation, said there were many provisions in
              the bill which he liked, but there were others he did not like; however, as the people
              demanded reform in this direction, hoping the other end of the Capitol would
              deliberate with reference to this bill properly and amend it where it is deficient
              now, he had come to the conclusion that if the county officers could stand it he
              could, and therefore voted "aye."
            The result was then announced as above recorded.
            So the bill passed the Senate.
            And then came the recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR resumed the chair at 2 o'clock P. M.
            
              NEW PROPOSITIONS.
              The following described bills were introduced, read the first time and severally
                passed to the second reading.
              By Mr. DWIGGINS, a bill [S. 204] to amend section 22 of the general town
                incorporation act of June 11, '52, as amended in the 22d section, on March 2d,
                1855.
              By Mr. FULLER, a bill [S. 205], requiring  the
                members of the General Assembly to return all statutes to the Librarian at the close
                of the session, and prescribing certain duties of the Librarian in relation
                thereto.
              By Mr. SCOTT, a bill [S. 206], legalizing the acknowledgments of all instruments
                taken by Notaries Public after the expiration if their commissions.
              By Mr. WOOD, a bill [S. 207], relating to the taxing of docket fees in the Circuit
                and Common Pleas Courts and the compensation of Judges therefor. By Mr. STROUD a
                bill [S. 208] to protect the citizens of the State of Indiana from impiricism and to
                elevate the medical profession in the State of Indiana.
              By Mr. FOSDICK a bill [S. 209] to amend section 16 of an act in relation to the
                taxation of lands in towns and cities, approved June 18, 1852.
              By Mr. FOSDICK a bill [S. 210] to amend section 16 of an act approved May 6, 1852,
                concerning real property and the alienation thereof.
              By Mr. HENDERSON a bill [S. 211] to provide for the construction of narrow guage
                horse railroads across and along public high ways--not to exceed three feet in
                width.
              By Mr. GRAY a bill [S. 212] to provide for the investment of the Sinking Fund and
                to provide for the distribution thereof for the benefit of the common school fund.
                The Auditor of State to lend such fund as the college fund is now loaned.
              By Mr. WILLIAMS, a bill [S. 213] reqiring railroads organized under any law of the
                State of Indiana to have their principal office in this State, on the line of their
                road; and a majority of their Board of Directors residents of this State.
              By Mr. ANDREWS--a bill [S. 214] with an accompanying petition, to encourage
                Agriculture and Agricultural Fairs by the purchase and improvement of Agricultural
                Fair grounds--county commissioners may purchase grounds not to exceed 20 acres at an
                expense, including improvements, not to exceed $10,000, to be exempt from
                taxation.
              Mr. ANDREWS moved for a dispensation of the constitutional restrictions that the
                bill may be read for reference to the Committee Agriculture.
              It was so ordered.
              By Mr. ROSEBRUGH, a bill, [S. 215,] to fix the times of holding the Common Pleas
                Courts in the 5th Judicial District--the counties of Ohio, Switzerland, Jefferson
                and Decatur--extending the time for holding the court in Switzerland county one
                week.
              On his motion, under a dispensation, it was read by title and referred.
              By Mr. BIRD, a bill, [S. 216,] to authorize the Board of Commissioners of any
                county to appropriate money, not exceeding $5,000 in one year, to aid in the
                improvement or keep in repair of any canal used for navigation, running in or
                through said county.
              On motion the restriction was dispensed with by a two-thirds vote, the title was
                read and the bill referred to a special committee to be composed of members living
                on the canal.
              By Mr. WOOD--by request--a bill, [S. 217,] to amend section 173, of the valuation
                and assessment act of June 21, 1852.
              By Mr. DITTEMORE, a bill [S. 218], supplemental to the liquor law of March 5, 1859,
                providing penalties against minors who shall obtain intoxicating liquors, and
                against the purchasing thereof on Sunday; no city shall require a larger sum for
                license than is imposed by the State, &c.
            
            
              LEVEES AND DRAINS.
              Mr. BROWN, by leave, from a majority of the Committee on
                  Corporations, returned the bill, [H. R. 23], to repeal the levee and
                drain act, with a recommendation that it be indefinitely postponed.
              Mr. HUBBARD presented a minority report recomending the passage of the bill, and he
                spoke in favor thereof, submitting general and special reasons.
              Mr. BROWN replied, arguing for the report of the majority.
              Mr. DWIGGINS favored the minority report. When he had concluded--
              Mr. BRADLEY made an ineffectual motion that the minority report be laid on the
                table yeas 22, nays 24.
              These reports went to the files.
              Mr. BROWN moved to suspend the order of business that the supplemental bill [S. 48]
                may be read the second time.
              It was so ordered.
              Mr. SCOTT moved to amend by inserting appropriately the words "or assessments
                made," and the words "showing the water line and land to be affected by such ditch
                before and after the completion of the work."
              These amendments were agreed to.
              Mr. DWIGGING moved to amend by appropriately inserting the words "provided the land
                or lands shall be sold or otherwise disposed of by any corporation or agent for less
                than the par value." The land holders have to pay all this and if lands are sold at
                a discount land owners will be drawn on to pay more assessments.
              Mr. BROWN thought the amendment would have the effect to defeat the bill, for it
                may be impossible to sell the bonds at their par value.
              Mr. HUBBARD was of opinion that if the work was one in which there was confidence,
                there would be no difficulty in negotiating the bonds; but if the work was not
                practicable, it would not be just to allow the bonds to be sold at a ruinous
                discount.
              Mr. MARTINDALE moved to amend the amendment by making it 95c. on the dollar.
              It was agreed to.
              The amendment, as amended, was agreed to.
              Mr. DWIGGINS moved to further amend by inserting appropriately the words, "keeping
                up the organization and" and adding these words: "Provided no money shall be spent
                in paying officer's salary after the completion of the work."
              Mr. HUBBARD insisted that this section if left unamended would allow officials to
                be continued after the completion of the work, and thus impose a useless burden on
                the landholders. The amendment was not in- 
                tended to cut off assessments to pay for necessary labor in keeping the ditch
                open.
              The amendment was agreed to.
              On motion of Mr. DWIGGINS, a further amendment was made that payments may be made
                to the Treasurer of the Corporation.
              The bill was ordered engrossed.
            
            
              WITNESSES.
              On motion of Mr. GRAY, his bill [S,202] defining who shall be competent witnesses
                in this State was read the second time.
              On motion of Mr. GRAY the bill was amended by inserting words to this effect: "that
                failure of a party defendant to testify shall not be taken as presumptive guilt or
                alluded to in argument of counsel."
              The bill was ordered engrossed.
            
            
              AGENT OF STATE.
              On motion by Mr. HENDERSON the bill [H. R. 265] reducing the salary of Agent of
                State, was read with the committee's amendment including office rent in the $1,000
                salary.
              On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE the words "clerk hire" were inserted.
              Mr. DITTEMORE moved to further amend by making the salary $1,500.
              Mr. DENBO made an ineffectual motion to lay the amendment on the table yeas 42,
                nays 1.
              On motion of Mr. DITTEMORE the salary was reduced to $500.
              The bill was ordered engrossed.
              Mr. ROSEBROUGH entered a motion to reconsider this vote.
            
            
              ADDITIONAL SUPREME COURT JUDGE.
              On motion by Mr. BRADLEY, his bill [S. 28] to create an additional Judge of the
                Supreme Court was read the second time and ordered engrossed.
            
            
              THE GOVERNOR'S RENTAL.
              On motion by Mr. GLESSNER, his bill [S. 171] to amend setion 4 of the act making
                the Governor an allowance in lieu of a residence, was read the second time and
                ordered engrossed.
            
            
              SUPREME COURT DISTRICTS.
              On motion of Mr. BRADLEY, his bill [S. 37] to create the 5th Supreme Court District
                was read the second time and ordered engrossed.
            
            
              PUBLICATIONS OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
              On motion by Mr. HADLEY, his bill [S. 7] providing for the publication of certain
                proceedings of the Board of County Commissioners was read the second time, and
                ordered engrossed--the committee amendments being concurred in.
            
            
              FREE ROAD TAX.
              On motion of Mr. BEESON, his bill [S. 24] authorizing free gravel and other road
                companies to levy a road tax in their respective districts, with the concurrence of
                the local authorities, was read the third time and passed by yeas 30, nays 5.
            
            
              SEVENTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
              On motion of Mr. GRAY, the bill [H. R. 173] to fix the time of holding Circuit
                Courts in the Seventh Judicial Circuit--Hancock, Henry, Delaware, Grant--was read
                the first time.
              On motion by Mr. GRAY, the restriction was dispensed with. The bill was read by
                title only for the second time.
              It was read the third time, and passed by yeas 37, nays 0.
            
            
              GRAVEL ROADS.
              On motion of Mr. GLESSNER his bill (S. 151) to legalize certain acts of
                corporations, organized under the gravel road laws, was read the second time and
                ordered to be engrossed.
            
            
              OLD INTERNAL IMPROVEMENT BONDS.
              On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE the resolution directing the Committee on
                  Finance to report a bill to pay the principal and interest due on old
                Internal Improvement bonds (see page 153) was taken up.
              He urged immediate action in view of the fact that the Governor has just received a
                telegram from his attorney that the Court in Carroll county has delivered an
                elaborate opinion sustaining Mr. Garrett's claim, and also the jurisdiction of the
                Court. If this Legislature fails to act in this matter the Wabash and Erie canal,
                and probably other property, will be sold before the meeting of another
                Legislature.
              Mr. GLESSNER moved that the resolution be changed to one of inquiry.
              Mr. MARTINDALE moved that the latter part of the resolution relating to the
                computation of interest be struck out.
              These motions were agreed to.
              The resolution was adopted.
            
            
              COUNTY AND TOWNSHIP AID TO RAILROADS.
              On motion of Mr. TAYLOR, his bill [S. 174], to authorise county and township aid to
                railroads was read the second time with Committee amendments, which were concurred
                in.
              Mr. DWIGGINS moved that the bill be ordered engrossed and thereupon demanded the
                previous question.
              There being a second--
              The bill was ordered engrossed by yeas 28, nays 12.
              And then the Senate adjourned.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            TUESDAY, February 14, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M. The order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. HARPER of the Frst
            Presbyterian Church of this city.
          The order of reading of the journal of yesterday was executed by the Clerk--till on
            motion of Mr. WYMER, its further reading was dispensed with.
          
            ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH PROPERTY.
            On motion of Mr. CAUTHORN, Mr. Gordon, of Cass, bill [H. R. 43] to provide for
              holding property in Roman Catholic churches, seminaries, colleges, &c., by
              trustees, &c., which was passed over yesterday, was taken up and read the third
              time; whereupon he demanded the previous question, but did not press it.
            Mr. STEPHENSON considered whether  this church
              could not hold their property without a special act. He believed it the duty of the
              Legislature rather to ignore all sectarian distinctions in religion These people, he
              believed, hold allegiance to the Pope; hold it inconsistent to educate their children
              in the common schools. Let them conform, and not the State, in the matter of holding
              property. Let them come to our laws, not we to theirs.
            Mr. CONNER said the church property of Roman Catholics was vested is the Bishops, in
              fee simple; and this bill demanded by themselves, he regarded as a step in the right
              direction--to take their property from the Bishops and place in in the hands of
              trustees.
            Mr. BROWNING demanded the previous question; it was useless to waste time on the
              discussion on a bill to which there should be no more objection than to the statute
              for holding church property in the Protestant Episcopal Church.
            The demand being seconded by the House, the bill was finally passed--yeas 53, nays
              35.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. DAVIDSON, from the Judiciary Committee, returned the petition of Lew Wallace
              others for judicial salary, recommending that the subject be indefinitely postponed.
              The report was concurred in.
            Mr. RHODES, from the Committee on Organization of Courts, returned
              the bill [H. R. 198] with amendments.
            Mr. DAVIDSON, from the Committee on the Organization of Courts,
              returned the bill[H. R. 81] to abolish Criminal Courts, except in Vigo and Marion
              counties, recommending its passage.
            From the Judiciary Committee, Mr. McDONALD returned the petition of Joseph Cox and
              others with respect to a prison supervision, recommending that it be referred to the
                Committee on Benevolent Institutions.
            Mr. CANTHORN returned Mr. Simpson'sbill, [H. R. 229], to repeal section 26 of the
              misdemeanor act--[to punish for the sale of intoxicating liquors to minors],
              recommending its passage.
            Mr. NEFF returned Mr. Rhodes' bill, [H. R. 258], to amend the 58th section of the act
              regulating descents, recommending that it lie on the table.
            Mr. RHODES explained that this bill is for the purpose of allowing the widow of the
              second marriage to convey her dower from the estate of her first husband, etc. The
              report was concurred in.
            Mr. NEFF returned Mr. Hooker's bill, [H. R. 265,] to amend section 16 of the real
              property act of 1852, changing the law in regard to alienation of property,
              recommending that it lie on the table, which was concurred in.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY returned the bill [H. R. 200] to amend the 6th section of the practice
              act, recommending that it pass.
            Mr. McDONALD returned the bill [H. R. 57] to amend section 42 of the act of 1861, to
              amend the 13th and 14th sections of the justices act of June 6, 1852, recommending its
              passage.
            Mr. HENDERSON returned the joint resolution [H. R. 42] for a revision of the
              judiciary system, recommending that it be laid on the table It was so ordered.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY returned the bill [H. R. 56] to amend section 13 of the justices act,
              recommending that it be laid on the table.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. ST. JOHN returned the bill [H. R. 211], authorizing foreign affidavits to be
              sworn to before a notary, recommending that it be laid on the table; which was
              concurred in.
            Mr. ST. JOHN returned the bill [H. R. 49], to authorize the collection of debts in
              the township where contracted, recommending that it be laid on the table; which was
              concurred in.
            Mr. McDONALD returned the bill [H. R. 93], to amend section 207, chapter 1, art. 11,
              of the practice act, recommending its passage.
            From the Committee on Education, Mr. ABBETT returned Mr. Kennedy's
              bill [H. R. 148], to amend section one of the act to authorize township trustees,
              &c., to levy tax for school purposes, recommending that it be laid on the
              table.
            Mr. KENNEDY stated that its provisions were to equalize the school taxes in the
              townships and to exempt $5,000 in the hands of every person over 65 years of age.
            The report was concurred in.
            Mr. ABBETT returned the school bill [H. R. 128] recommending its passage.
            Mr. BALLENGER returned the bill [H. R. 169] to provide for County Boards of Education
              for common school purposes, with amendments, recommending its passage.
            Mr. McDONALD returned the bill [H. R. 17] to amend section 1 of the act authorizing
              Township Trustees, &c., to levy taxes for school purposes, recommending that it
              lie on the table.
            Mr. KNIGHT, from a minority of the Committee on Banks, returned
              Mr. Ruddell's holidays bill [H. R. 66] recommending its passage.
            Mr. McDOWELL, from the majority, submitted an adverse report.
            Mr. WILES, as a member of said committee, recommended the passage of the bill with
              amendments--that where notes fall due on Sunday, and the Monday succeeding is a
              holiday, such note shall be due the day after instead of the day before.
            Mr. RUDDELL accepted the amendment as to the report of Mr. Knight.
            Mr. BROWNING, from the Committee on Military Affairs, returned the
              flag protection bill [H. R. 226] recommending its passage.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY returned the bill [H. R. 227] recommending that it be referred to the
              Judiciary Committee.
            Mr. STONE returned Mr. Netherton's resolution for pay of certain recruiting officers,
              recommending that it be laid on the table, which was concurred in.
            Mr. TEBBS, from the Committee on Claims, reported on the claim of
              John Baker, that  the same has been adjusted by
              the Adjutant General.
            Mr. ZENOR reported adversely to the claim of Preston B. Wilson.
            Mr. COGGSWELL, from the Committee on Fees and Salaries, reported a
              fee bill [H. R. 319].Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, reported adversely to the fee bill [H. R.
              55.]
            Mr. STEPHENSON returned Mr. Martin's, of Putnam, county officers bill [H. R. 7]
              reporting that it be laid on the table, as the committee have reported a
              substitute.
            Mr. BRITTON, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges, returned
              Mr. Abbett's peace bill [H. R. 158] with amendments.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF the consideration of the special order, to wit: the committee's
              county officers fee bill, was postponed and made the special order for to-morrow, 10
              o'clock.
            From the Committee on Railroads Mr. BROWNING returned the petition
              of E. B. Shanks and others recommending that it lie on the table.
            Mr. MINICH returned Mr. Knight's bill [H. R. 251] for compensation for animals killed
              by Railroads, recommending its passage.
            Mr. KNIGHT reported adversely to the petition in reference to the Warsaw and White
              Pigeon Railroad.
            Mr. WOODWARD reported favorably on his baggage protection bill [H. R. 239.]
            Mr. RAY reported favorably on Mr. Woodward's railroad completion bill [H. R 238.]
            Mr. McDONALD returned Mr. Davidson's county and township aid bill (H. R. 111)
              recommending its indefinite postponement.
            On motion by Mr. DAVIDSON, it was made the special order for Wednesday week at 10
              o'clock.
            Mr. BROWNING returned Mr. Milligan's railroad aid bill, [H. R. 64], recommending its
              indefinite postponement.
            On motion of Mr. MILLIGAN, it was referred to the Committee on Rights and
                Privileges, with instructions.
            Mr. BROWNING returned Mr. Calkins of Fulton's County and Township railroad aid repeal
              bill, [H. R. 12], with a recommendation that it lie on the table
            On motion of Mr. CALKIN'S, of Porter, the report was passed over, and it was ordered
              that the bill be considered at the same time with the special order of bills of that
              class.
            Mr. ZENOR, from the Committee on county and Township Business
              returned Mr. Kennedy's fees of Justice of the Peace bill [H. R. 272], recommending
              that it lie on the table.
            Mr KENNEDY insisted that the fees of Justices were not compensating.
            Mr. CALKIN'S, of Porter, also considered it better not to concur, so long as we are
              raising the salaries of the higher judicial officers.
            The report was not concurred in.
            Mr. DONHAM, from the Committee on Agriculture, returned Mr.
              Oatley'a bill [H. R. 308] for a commission to visit the fish ponds of James F.
              Campbell, recommending indefinite postponement.
            Mr. RICE, from the Committee on Temperance, returned Mr.
              Browning's prohibiting the adulteration of liquors bill, [H. R. 46], recommending that
              it lie on the table.
            Mr. BRITTON, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr. Stone's
              turnpike company toll bill, [H. R. 247] recommending indefinite postponement.
            Mr. TARLTON, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr. Snodgrass'
              Supervisor's Election bill [H. R. 219,] recommending indefinite postponement.
            These reports were severally concurred in.
            The SPEAKER announced the Special Committee on Mr. Cauthorn's
              bill, to-wit: Messrs. Cauthorn, McDonald, Wood, McDowell, and Gordon of
              Boone.
            The SPEAKER laid before the House two memorials from the Western Yearly Meeting of
              Friends on the subjects of prisons and divorce
            Mr. MITCHELL asked and obtained leave to introduce three bills--on land titles,
              temperance, and the judiciary--without reading.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, from the Committee on Fees and Salaries,
              returned Mr. Ruddell's bill [H. R. 44] regulating salaries of certain officers therein
              named, recommending indefinite postponement.
            The report was concurred in.
            The SPEAKER laid before the House the reports of the Chaplains of the two
              prisons.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The SPEAKER now proceeded to call the counties for new propositions.
            Mr. TAYLOR submitted a resolution that the Committee on Claims be
              inquire whether William B. Walters, lately contesting his seat, is entitled to per diem and mileage, and if so, how much.
            Mr. TAYLOR introduced a bill [H. R. 320] for an act requiring railroad companies and
              other corporations and persons manufacturing machinery or other property to list the
              same for taxation.
            Mr. TAYLOR [H. R. 321], for an act in relation to the collection of delinquent taxes,
              and requiring county Treasurers to assign reasons for a failure to collect,
              &c.
            Mr. TAYLOR [H. R. 322], for an act to authorize the killing of useless and sheep
              killing dogs,&c.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM moved ineffectually that the bill be rejected.
            Mr. TAYLOR [H. R. 323], for an act to authorize the incorporation of associations for
              the erection of buildings, or the purchase, improvement and sale of real estate.
            Mr. MINNICH, [H. R. 324] for an act to provide for the appraisement, and assessment
              of real property where the same has been improperly appraised by mistake or
              otherwise.
            Mr. ST. JOHN, [H. R. 325] for an act to amend section 2 of an act entitled an act
              declaratory of the law regulating marriages and enforcing the provisions thereof by
              proper penalties, approved March 5,1852. 
              [Declaring marriages void where the parties sustain the relation of cousin german,
              &c.]
            Mr. HENDRY--[H. R. 326] for an act declaring certain property belonging to municipal
              corporation fire companies exempt from sale on execution.
            Mr. WILSUN, [H. R. 327], for an act limiting the jurisdiction of the Court of Common
              Pleas in counties where a superior Court is organized, &c. [It abolishes the
              Common Pleas in such counties.]
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM, [H. R. 328], for an act to amend the first section of an act entitled
              an act to amend section one of an act entitled an act relative to the salaries of
              public officers and providing the manner of paying the same, &c.
            Mr. COPNER, [H. R. 329] for an act supplemental to an act entitled an act to regulate
              and license the sale of vinous, malt and other intoxicating liquors, &c.
            By Mr. MAJOR-[H. R. 330] for an act regulating the manner of paying the per diem of
              township trustees, assessors and supervisors of highways.
            By Mr. HOLLAND -[H. R. 331] for an act to amend section 13 of an act entitled an act
              to provide for the election and qualification of Justices of the Peace, and defining
              their jurisdiction, powers and duties in civil cases; approved June 9, 1852.
            By Mr. COGGSWELL--[H. R. 332] for an act to regulate the fees of county officers,
              &c.
            Mr. SIMPSON (H. R. 333) for am act to incorporate the Jefferson Insurance Company of
              the City of Madison.
            Mr. DAVIDSON (H. R. 334) for an act to exempt from exemption and taxation of
              promissory notes, execution in consideration of real estate in certain cases (where
              the real estate is subject to assessment and taxation.)
            Mr. RHODES (H. R. 335) for an act in relation to the right to challenge certain
              jurors.
            Mr. STEPHENSON (H. R. 336) for an act in relation to the manner of holding primary
              elections.
            Mr. GORDON, of Cass, submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                Committee on Temperance inquire into the expediency of a law
              requiring the consumer as well as the retailers of intoxicating liquors to take out
              license.
            Mr. MAJOR submitted a preamble and resolution reciting that 300,000 of the children
              of school age did not attend school, and instructing the Committee on
                Education to inquire into the expediency of compulsory attendance.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, submitted a joint resolution in relation to the contraction
              of the currency, and for remedy proposing the removal of all restrictions upon the
              organization of National Banks.
            Mr. MITCHELL moved, ineffectually, to lay it on the table.
            It was referred to the Committee on Federal Relations.
            Mr. NEFF submitted a preamble and resolution, which was adopted, reciting that there
              is a bill pending in the Senate of the United States for an appropriation by the
              General Government and this State from which four hundred to six hundred thousand
              dollars will be realized, and instructing the Committee on Ways and
                Means to report a bill converting this fund into the common school fund
              and making it a part of the same.
            Mr. OATLEY submitted a preamble and resolution for a special committee of three to
              inspect the fish pond of James F. Campbell and report upon his plan for producing
              fish.
            Mr. BIGGS proposed to add these words "provided the committee pay their own
              expenses."
            Mr. MINICH proposed than Mr. Campbell pay the expenses.
            Mr. BIGGS accepted the modification.
            Mr. OATLEY accepted the amendment, and so the resolution was adopted.
            Mr. McDOWELL submitted a preamble and resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                Committee on ways and Means to inquire into the condition of the
              Swamp Land Fund, and report at an early day.
            Mr. HAYNES submitted a resolution, requiring the Committee on Ways and
                Means to report the Appropriation bill on Tuesday at 12 o'clock.
            Mr. NEFF said the bill was already prepared, and could be reported at any time, but
              under the advice of older members it was thought better to withhold it for other items
              that may be ordered by the House.
            The resolution was rejected.
            Mr. McDONALD submitted a resolution to allow Simon Wile, who contested the seat of
              Wm. Shoenemann for the county of Laporte, a per diem of $175, and
              mileage of $63 20, and that Wm. R. Bowles be allowed $--- for three days attendance as
              a witness in said contest. Mr. McD. said Wiles' expenses for attorney's fees, etc.,
              were not included.
            After debate of Messrs. Heilman, Biggs, Wilson, and Friedley, in opposition, and
              Messrs. McDonald, Bellinger, and others, supporting the proposition, the resolution
              was adopted--yeas, 52; nays, 41.
            Mr. DAVIDSON obtained leave of absence for the day, and then the House took a recess
              till 2 o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The House met at 2 o'clock P. M., and the Speaker resumed the call for bills,
              etc.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Select Committee, on Mr. Cauthorn's legislative apportionment
              bill [H. R. 291], returned said bill, which was ruled out of order.
            Mr. ZENOR submitted a resolution, which was adopted, for the repair of the gas
              burners in the hall.
            Mr. WILLIAMS submitted a claim, which was referred without reading.
            
              THE CALENDAR.
              The engrossed hunting prohibition bill [S.2];The engrossed change of venue bill [S.
                35 to amend section 207 of the Practice act;
              The bill [S.11] to amend the ninth section  of
                the individual drainage act [to enforce collections of assessments];
              The bill [S. 69] to authorize plank or gravel roads to appropriate earth, gravel,
                &c.
              The bill [S. 18] to authorize county Recorders to demand and receive their fees at
                the time papers are presented for record;
              The bill [S. 53] to authorize trustees to sell real estate and invest the same for
                the benefit of the c'est tui qui trust.
              The joint resolution [S. 10] for an act of Congress for an additional Light House
                district, to include the Mississippi and Missouri rivers (the Garfield bill.)
              Were severally read the first time and referred.
              The bill [S. 168] to authorize the consolidation of hydraulic companies, defining
                their powers, etc., was read the second time.
              The bill [S. 149] to amend section 14 of the act concerning promissory notes, bills
                of exchange, bonds, etc., was read the second time and referred to the
                  Committe on Banks.
            
            
              PRIVATE DRAINAGE LAW.
              Mr. Caldwell's private drainage law amendment bill [H. R. 22] was read the third
                time. (It revises the act, amends the title, &c., having been heretofore ordered
                to be printed.)
              Mr. CALDWELL said it gives privileges not guaranteed in the act of 1867--reducing
                the recorder's fees. It requires the money to be paid as soon as the advantage
                accruing shall be derived. When any party makes a new ditch, he shall open the old
                ditch so as to make it of sufficient capacity to carry off the water.
              Mr. BALLENGER understood that the bill was now on the second reading. (He was
                corrected by the record.)
              Mr. TAYLOR desired to amend the second section in regard to notice in the
                newspapers.
              Mr. CALKINS of Porter said that it was for non-residents.
              Mr. TAYLOR showed that it applied us well to residents. He proposed to strikeout
                and amend that clause.
              Mr. CALKINS showed that the language of the bill is sufficiently explicit.
              Mr. KNIGHT concurred in the view of Mr. Taylor--residents may be notified in either
                of the ways specified.
              Mr. McDONALD suggested verbal amendments to make the sense clear.
              Mr. TAYLOR said there is another particular in which this law ought to be amended.
                The law might be unconstitutional unless it is declared that the proposed work is of
                public utility. The rights of any one man can not be subservient to those of any
                other one man. He should propose an amendment to that effect. He now proposed an
                amendment to the 3d section: "provided that any person through whose land such work
                shall run, shall be entitled to do so much of the work as may be done on his land.
                It was adopted by consent.
              Mr. St. JOHN proposed an additional section in regard to the correction of errors
                in assessments, to be determined by trial in court.
              Mr. KIRKPATRICK said the proposition to compel a man to widen the ditch if he runs
                another into it would take away the rights of parties with lands in the upper
                portions of the water-shed. If we can't have a law for a survey of all the lands of
                the shed to be affected, we might as well have no law on the subject.
              Mr. BUTTERWORTH considered the bill as perfect as it could be made, and that it
                should be passed.
              Mr. BRITTON defended the justice of the provision referred to by Mr. Kirkpatrick.
                He was in favor of the passage of the bill.
              Mr. TAYLOR considered the bill very much better than the present law.
              The bill then finally passed the House--yeas 85, nays 3.
            
            
              ROAD TAX.
              Mr. Martin of Wayne's bill [H. R. 154] to amend section 20 of an act of 1865, for
                the election or appointment of supervisors of highways, etc., was read the third
                time. [It provides for taxing the land by the acre.]
              On motion of Mr. KENNEDY, it was referred to the special committee on
                  Roads.
            
            
              GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.
              Mr. Minick's bill [H. R. 162] to amend section 6 of the act providing for a
                geological survey, etc., and appropriating $8,000 to defray the expenses of said
                survey.
              Mr. BROWNING proposed to amend by making the salary of the Geologist $2,000 instead
                of $3,000.
              Mr. BEELER opposed the amendment. It would be entirely insufficient. The labor of
                the State Geologist was that which but few were able to perform.
              Mr. BIGGS proposed to make the sum $2,500.
              Mr. BROWNING insisted that $2,000 was sufficient--the same as the salary of the
                circuit judges. This bill was not only to raise the salary, but to enable the
                geologist to make the proposed survey.
              Mr. NEFF rehearsed the provisions of the bill: $3,000 for the salary ot the
                geologist, and $8,000 at the disposal of the Governor, to be expended under the
                supervision of the State Board of Agriculture.
              Mr. BALLENGER was opposed to the whole thing; opposed to appropriating the money of
                the State for the benefit of a few counties and manufacturing companies. The State
                Geologist has been used in these local interests, whereas his labors should be
                expended on the State at large.
              Mr. MINICH admitted that the labors of this officer has been too limited; and
                herein was the reason for the larger appropriation of $8,000. That was to get up the
                reports, the maps and plates. He wanted this to make the work effectual. There was
                an appropriation two years ago, of $5,000. That was not sufficient. Prof. Cox's
                report was equal in value to that of Prof. Newberry, which cost $16,000. Let the
                geologist go through the State, and let us know our resources.
              Mr. BROWNING said that if we do not know what we have, there was one thing we  would not have, if we go on increasing salaries
                and expenses we will not have money to pay them. We have got along well enough with
                the former salary.
              Mr. McDONALD should not oppose any proper appropriation in safe hands. But to give
                the Geologist a salary above that of a Circuit Judge; he could not vote for that. He
                would vote the bill down before he would give him a salary of $3,000.
              Mr. WOODARD said it was false economy to refuse to appropriate a sufficient amount
                to do a great work. What had already been done by this officer had brought millions
                into the State for manufacturing.
              Mr. MITCHELL suggested the propriety of throwing the expenses of the visits of the
                State Geologist upon the several counties where he might be invited.
              Mr. KENNEDY considered that whatever develops the coal regions was of general
                advantage to the State. He was for a liberal salary, and paying the expenses.
              Mr. HAYNES counseled deliberation. To his mind this is a subject of the highest
                interest and importance. We have mineral fields in the southern part of the State
                that will yet place Indiana in the front rank of the States of the Union. The
                proposed survey could not be done with any meager sum; and any such appropriation
                would return a hundred fold.
              Mr. BRITTON demanded the previous question, and under its pressure Mr. Biggs'
                amendment to the amendment, that is to make the salary $2,500, the yeas and nays
                thereon resulting--yeas 36, nays 56. So the amendment to the amendment was rejected,
                and the question recurred on Mr. Browning's amendment making the salary $2,000;
                which was adopted without a division.
              Mr. BRITTON proposed to amend further by striking out the words "and necessary
                travelling expenses;" and striking out "$8,000" and inserting "$5,000" in lieu.
              Mr. STONE demanded a division of the question on this amendment.
              Mr. DEFREES demanded the previous question, and under its force, the first
                division--striking out "necessary traveling expenses" was rejected by the following
                vote--yeas, 37; nays, 53.
              The second division of the amendment making the appropriation "$5,000" instead
                of"$8,000," was adopted--yas, 57; nays, 36.
              Mr. BIGGS moved to reconsider the vote adopting Mr. Browning's amendment.
              Mr. McDONALD and Mr. ZENOR moved to lay the motion to reconside on the table.
              The latter motion was agreed to--yeas 57, nays 29.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, moved to recommit the bill with instructions to amend by
                dividing the time of the Geologist equally between the various Congressional
                districts.
              Mr. MINICH. If you adopt that it will be impracticable. It would be better to have
                no State Geologist. The appropriation should have been large enough to enable the
                Geologist to visit every part of the State. I move to lay it on the table.
              Mr. WILSON proposed that the sum of $1,000 be appropriated for a geological survey
                and examination by the Geologist in each Congressional district.
              After debate across the House by Messrs. MARTIN of Putnam, CALKINS of Porter,
                McDONALD and WILSON, the latter insisting on the adoption of Mr. Calkins'
                motion.
              Mr. MINICH proposed to add: "To direct the Committee to make a calculation of the
                cost of the survey in each Congressional District, and report the same." He desired
                this to go with the Calkins instructions, so that there might be a sufficient
                appropriation.
              Mr. RHODES considered that the motion of Mr. Calkins would be incomplete without
                that of Mr. Minich. The Geologist might do something under the success of a
                combination of these motions.
              Mr. WILSON set forth the necessity of his instructions as additional to the
                instructions of Mr. Minich and Mr. Calkins--the $1,000 for each congressional
                district being intended as a substitute for the appropriation of $5,000 now in the
                bill.
              Mr. BRITTON proposed $500 instead of $1,000 to each district.
              The bill was referred again to the committee, with the instructions indicated.
              Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, moved to suspend the restrictions, and take up the Senate
                Fees and Salaries bill No. 4, that it may be read by title, and made the special
                order for to-morrow, 10 o'clock.
              Mr. WILSON spoke against carrying the bill so far--as the third reading--while he
                is in favor of a bill to reduce fees.
              The motion was agreed to, and the bill [S. 4] to regulste the fees and salaries and
                prescribe the duties of certain officers therein named, and prescribing penalties
                for violation of its provisions, was taken up, read by title and placed in the
                special order for to-morrow at 10 o'clock.
              The House then, at 5:30 o'clock, adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            WEDNESDAY, February 15, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock--the LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR in the Chair.
          Prayer by Rev. G. H. Morron, of the 4th Presbyterian Church.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read, till
          On motion by Mr. WOOD, the further reading thereof was dispensed with.
          
            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, AND REMONSTRANCES.
            Mr. BRADLEY presented a memorial from the State Board of Education in favor of the
              increase of pay of school examiners.
            For the last five years it has been apparent that, from the workings of our
              educational system there are many emendations needing to the School laws. The change
              of time in township elections increases this necessity. Some of the amendments most
              important to the State are presented below:
            1st. Such as will secure to the counties an efficient
                superintendence by men having practical educational ability. The main
              difficulty now in the way of this result is the inequality of pay and the small
              allowance of time given by Commissioners. Inadequate pay renders it necessary to
              connect the office with some other business or profession, and the examiner is thus
              unable to give to our schools such aid and professional inspection as are essential
              for the work assigned them. A little expenditure in increasing creasing the efficiency
              of the School Examiner will greatly enhance the profit of our Common School system. We
              are convinced of this from the uniform experience of other States.
            The State Teachers' Association and the State Convention of School Examiners have
              each unanimously expressed their judgment that satisfactory results can not be had in
              the State at less compensation than $5 for each day's service rendered, and judging
              from the cost of educated men as superintendents of city and corporation schools, we
              are unable to see how proper men can devote adequate attention to this service for
              less.
            Should you, however, be persuaded that public sentiment will not sustain you in such
              increase of pay, we most respectfully ask you to give such expression to the statutes
              as will permit the Commissioners to increase the ordinary rates in such counties as
              desire it, to such amount as they may think necessary, not exceeding $5 per diem.
            As a guide to our judgment in this subject, we may be profited by the laws of other
              States.
            Kansas pays school examiners $3 per day in counties of small population; in those of
              larger population salaries of from $1,000 to $1,500.
            Iowa $3, and such addition as the supervisors may allow.
            Wisconsin from $800 to $1,500.
            Minnesota $600, and such additions as commissioners may choose to give.
            Missouri, whatever the commissioners' choose to give.
            Ohio, three examiners, paid $2 per day each, equal to $6 for one.
            Illinois $5 per day and rates for managing funds. In some counties their salaries
              amount to $3,000 or $5,000.
            Michigan, not less than $3 nor more than $5 per day.
            In Pennsylvania their salary is determined by a county convention of school
              directors.
            Mississippi $5 per day.
            Kentucky, $50 for office and travel, $5 for each school of twenty scholars taught
              five months, $10 for each school over twenty scholars taught five months, and $20 for
              each graded school over forty scholars, or from $300 to $800.
            New England, town superintendents paid whatever the town--that is township--shall,
              determine.
            2. Another subject we consider of special interest is the Normal School. Although the
              Autumn and Winter terms have been small, yet we anticipate a much larger attendance
              during the summer and in the future, as its merits become known. We much desire in
              common with the educators of the State generally, that it may receive, by your
              appropriations and emendations of the laws governing it,such aid will place it where
              the friends of education desire to see it, among the best Normal Schools in the
              nation. It must labor under great disadvantage until the building is finished. We feel
              that the State is impelled by the obligations of its  contract with the city of Terre Haute, by its duty to the
              teachers of the State, and by the reputation it has gained by what it has already
              done, to meet cheerfully whatever expense may be necessary for the completion of the
              building and the support of the institution. 3. There are several bills pending your
              action, which we especially commend to your favorable consideration, to-wit: Senate
              bills 40, 41, 107 and 111.
            The first, relating to the duties of School Examiners, the 2d amendments to the
              school laws in general, the 3d relating to the Normal school, and the 4th to higher
              education.
            We have carefully examined these bills, and believe they embody such amendments to
              the laws as the educators of the State especially recommend. We much desire their
              passage.
            Trusting that you all feel in sympathy with any measure which will advance the
              interest and true prosperity of the State, we earnestly commend to your favorable
              disposal the matters here presented.
            By order of a meeting of the Board, held at Indianapolis, February 13, 1871.
            BARNABAS C. HOBBS,
                Chairman. A. C. SHORTRIDGE,
                Secretary.
            Mr. MILLER presented a memorial from the Common Council of Peru concerning gravel
              roads, praying for favorable legislation in the matter of assessments by such
              companies.
            These we appropriately referred.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. BRADLEY, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned the
              bill [S. 128] to amend sections 349 and 350 of the Practice act with amendments.
            Mr. WOOD, from the Committee on Corporations, returned the bill
              [S. 26] to amend the drainage law, with amendments.
            Mr. HENDERSON, from the same committee, returned the bill [S. 185] declaring the
              meaning of the railroad aid, act of May 12, 1869, with a favorable report.
            These reports go to the files.
            Mr. DENBO, from the Committee on Claims, reported adversely on the
              claim of John Lefler for purchase money of defective title.
            Mr. CAVEN, from the Committee on Claims, reported on the claim of
              the Adjutant General of State that $500 be allowed--Mr. Denbo dissenting.
            Mr. CARNAHAN, from the same committee, reported unfavorably to the claim of Levina
              Hopkins for attorneys' fees expended by her husband.
            These reports were concurred in.
            Mr. BIRD, from the same committee, reported unfavorably to the claim of Mrs. Mary E.
              Coburn for $23,892 16, for the reason that it was completely and finally adjusted at
              the last session when $10,000 was allowed. The committee are informed, and believe,
              that only $2,000 of that amount went to the Coburns'; where the balance went they say
              not.
            Mr. CAVEN regarded the latter as a mere rumor, and probably not proper to report
              about, and was not willing that it should come from the committee.
            Mr. CARNAHAN said these statements were embodied in the body of the claim.
            Mr. CAVEN would not accept of such recitement as proof, and dissented from its
              appearing in the report. He moved to recommit the report for amendment in this
              particular.
            It was so ordered.
            Mr. CARNAHAN, from the Committee on Claims, reported adversely on
              the claims of the Indianapolis and Cincinnati Railroad Company for transportation of
              soldiers.
            It was concurred in.
            Mr. JOHNSTON, from the Committee Rights and Privileges, returned the bill [S. 186]
              regulating speed of locomotives through cities and towns, with a favorable report.
            Mr. MORGAN, from the Committee on Benevolent Institutions,
              returned the bill [S. 164] to make further provision for the insane, with a
              recommendation that the blank be filled with $100,000.
            These reports go to the files.
            Mr. MARTINDALE, from, the select committee thereon, returned the bill [H. R. 19] for
              the appointment of pilots by the Jeffersonville Common Council, recommending that it
              lie on the table--Mr. Dittemore dissenting. The report was concurred in.
          
          
            COMMON SCHOOLS.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR announced the special order, being the consideration of
              several bills amendatory of the common school law. The bill [S. 140] to amend the
              common school law and adding supplemental sections, was read the second time.
            Mr. DITTEMORE moved to amend the bill by striking out "$5" for each day employed and
              inserting "$4"--pay of the School Examiner, which amendment was agreed to.
            Mr. DENBO thought the bill was wrong almost all the way through and he moved it be
              recommitted.
            Mr. GLESSNER regarded the expense of furnishing an office for the Examiner at the
              county seat as one the people were not asking for; then another section authorizes the
              Examiner to occupy every day in the year at his salary of $5 per day. Under this rule
              the office will cost each county about $2,500 a year. He pointed out other objections
              to the bill, and declared the law as it is, is as good as it ought to be, except that
              the School Examiner should have $5 a day for the time actually employed. The
                Committee on Education have recommended that change. He favored
              the motion to recommit.
            Mr. WOOD thought the estimate of the Senator as to the cost of the Examiner under the
              bill was extravagant. If the County Commissioners find the Examiner is claiming too
              many days service they can determine the amount he shall be allowed. There are many
              good provisions in this bill, and one is the duty imposed to go to Justices and other
              officers to see that all fines &c.,are paid 
              over to the school fund. This item alone will probably save more than the cost of this
              office, for it will secure a large revenue to the school fund.
            Mr. MARTINDALE--could not see the objections to the features of this bill, attempted
              to be urged by Senators. This law makes examinations free to teachers--it cuts off the
              present fee of $1, and the compensation is now, by the amendment just adopted, $4 a
              day. The matter of office rent would be small--a very trifling matter. It is a fact
              well known to every lawyer and many others, that not one-half of the fines and
              forfeitures are collected in the State of Indiana for the benefit of the school fund,
              and it is a wise provision in this bill which directs the School Examiners to look
              into this matter, and see that they are paid into this fund. He insisted that the pay
              of this officer would not amount to one-half the sum named by the Senator from Shelby,
              (Mr. Glessner.) He disclaimed the authorship of the bill it was drawn by one who had
              made this matter a study and a business for more than four years past.
            Mr. BRADLEY thought it not worth while to recommit this bill to the committee--they
              have examined it carefully, and expressed their opinion of it.
            Mr. DENBO objected to this bill on the ground stated by the Senator from Shelby (Mr.
              Glessner). This Examiner can convince the Board of Commissioners that it is necessary
              for him to be engaged every day in the year, so it would be an expensive office to the
              counties.
            Mr. BRADLEY showed that this latter objection would apply as well to the present law
              as to this bill.
             Mr. GRAY moved to amend section 9 by adding these words: "if employed after such
              information is received."
            On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE, the motion to recommit was laid on the table yeas--26,
              nays 18.
            The amendmet was agreed to.
            Mr. GLESSNER moved ineffectually to indefinitely postpone the bill yeas 17, nays
              26
            Mr. BOBO moved ineffectually to amend by striking out the clause which provides that
              the school examiner shall be, or has been, "a successful professional teacher."
            On motion by Mr. FOSDICK, the words "not less than," before the pay of the examiner,
              were stricken out.
            On motion by Mr. DWIGGINS the words "and expenses" were also stricken out.
            On motion by Mr. STEELE the bill was further amended by striking out the clause
              allowing the county commissioners to determine the number of days the examiner shall
              visit the schools in the county.
            Mr. GRAY moved to amend by adding to section 6 these words: "provided it is required
              by an elector of any incorporated town and cities said teacher's license shall be
              approved by the county commissioners before being allowed to teach."
            Mr. DWIGGINS suggested a chance for the display of mulishness by an elector under
              this amendment which might be productive of mischief.
            Mr. BIGGS moved to amend the amendment by striking out all of section 6.
            Mr. DWIGGINS moved to lay both amendments on the table.
            Mr. BROWN demanded a division of the question.
            The amendment to the amendment was not laid on the table on a division--affirmative
              13, negative not counted, but--
            The amendment was laid on the table on a division affirmative 18, negative 17.
            Mr. BROWN moved to strike out section six--it is better to leave examinations of
              teachers with the school examiners.
            Mr. MORGAN opposed this motion. Trustees of cities should have the privilege of
              examining teachers.
            Mr. SCOTT said the section also covered graded schools, and cities ought to have the
              privilege of determining the qualifications of teachers for the different grades. He
              was very much opposed to the striking out.
            Mr. MORGAN suggested that more than half the expense of city schools was borne by the
              taxation of the citizens thereof; and they certainly should have the privilege of
              determining the qualifications of their teachers.
            Mr. GRAY moved to amend the motion to strike out by stiking out only the words "and
              incorporated towns."
            And then came the noon recess.
            CORRECTION.--Mr. Dwiggins' first amendment to the Drainage law
              repeal bill [H. R. 23], yesterday afternoon, should read "bond or bonds shall not,"
              instead of lands or lands shall." His second amendment was not "by inserting appropriately" the words "keeping up the organisation and," but to
                strike out these words.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Senate met at 2 o'clock.
            On motion by Mr. GREEN, his bills [S. 180] in relation to lots unmarked on town plats
              to be used for school purposes, and [S. 192], authorizing certain drainage companies
              to amend their articles of association, were read the second time and severally
              ordered engrossed for the third reading.
            Mr. SCOTT, from the Judiciary Committee, returned the bill [S. 5] giving married
              women the right to join with their husbands in the execution of certain contracts
              recommending its passage; and the bill [S. 188] defining certain felonies with an
              adverse report. The latter report was concurred in, the former goes to the files.
            Mr. BROWN introduced a bill [S. 219] to amend section 4 of an act of June 11, 1852,
              touching gaming contracts, which was read the first time and passed to the second
              reading.
            
              COMMON SCHOOLS.
              The Senate returned to the consideration of the common school amendment bill [S.
                40] the Lieut. Governor holding that a motion (Mr. Gray's) to strike out part of a
                section pending a motion to strike out the whole section is not in order.
              Mr. GRAY submitted a substitute author-  izing
                cities and town trustees to conduct examinations of teachers for special grades in
                addition to the school examiners.
              Mr. MORGAN could not understand why teachers should be subjected to two
                examinations. He regarded the city examiners as at least four years as a general
                thing in advance of county examiners.
              The substitute was agreed to, and the section as amended was adopted.
              On motion of Mr. MARTINDALE there was added to section four the following: "The
                commissioners shall allow such examiner for days sufficient to make one visit to
                each school taught in the county.
              Mr. GLESSNER moved to strike out the words "or printed'' where it refers to
                questions of the examiner to teachers requiring answers. He desires to avoid this
                printing in every county throughout the State every month as required in this bill;
                then there would be chances for these printed question's to be obtained by teachers
                previous to the examinations, and there would be no difficulty about the
                answers.
              Mr. MARTINDALE thought this was fishing low for economy.
              The amendment was rejected.
              Mr. BRADLEY, by consent, amended section 4 by striking out $4 a day and insert not
                less than $3 nor more than $5 a day in the discretion of the County Courts.
              Mr. ANDREWS moved to amend by requiring the examination of Justices and other
                records to be made in the month of November.
              Mr. DWIGGINS moved to make it in September.
              It was so ordered.
              Mr. DENBO moved ineffectually to strike out the provision for furnishing the School
                Examiner an office.
              Mr. MORGAN moved to reconsider the vote adopting a substitute for section 6. He
                thought the original section was just the thing needed. It was unnecessary for the
                teacher to go before an examiner that was not competent.
              On motion of Mr. BRADLEY, this motion was laid on the table.
              Mr. BEGGS moved to amend by striking out the clause directing information to be
                furnished to the Grand Jury.
              On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE the amendment was laid on the table.
              Mr. MORGAN moved to strike out the word "cities" in section 9, so that such
                trustees shall not be held liable for paying out money to incompetent teachers after
                information.
              Mr. BROWN opposed the amendment. He desired city Trustees should be held equally
                responsible with Trustees of towns and townships. He moved to lay it on the
                table.
              It was so ordered.
              The bill was then ordered engrossed for the third reading.
            
            
              FEMALE SUFFRAGE.
              Mr. BEESON called up the special order--being the consideration of a minority
                report made yesterday from a select committee, embracing the joint resolution [S.11]
                proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the State by adding a section
                conferring on women of the age of twenty-one years and upwards the right to
                vote.
              Mr. BEESON addressed the Senate in support of the report of the minority, and in
                favor of the passage of the joint resolution.
              Mr. MORGAN spoke in opposition.
              Mr. DWIGGINS followed, giving it as his opinion as a lawyer, that women are
                entitled to vote under the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States;
                but desiring to put the question beyond all cavil, he argued at length in support of
                the pending resolution.
              Mr. HADLEY expressed his opposition to female suffrage in a speech of considerable
                length.
              Mr. BROWN also indulged in extended remarks, closing by offering an amendment, that
                where the word "female" occurs twice in the resolution it shall be immediately
                preceded by the word "white."
              Mr. WOOD, as this question has been pretty thoroughly discussed on both sides, and
                in view of other important business pending, demanded the previous question.
              The demand was seconded by the Senate, and under the operation of the previous
                question, the amendment [Mr. Brown's] was agreed to by yeas 25, nays 22, as
                follows:
              
                
                  
                    YEAS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley,
                      Brown, Bird, Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty, Elliott, Francisco,
                      Fuller, Glessner, Gress, Henderson, Johnson, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan,
                      Rosebrugh, Straud, and Williams--25.
                    NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Case, Caven,
                      Collett, Dwiggins Fosdick. Gray, Green, Hadley, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard,
                      Martindale, Miller, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--22.
                  
                
              
              Pending the roll call--
              Mr. BEESON, when his name was called, said: I have always been in favor of the
                fullest liberty to all. I therefore vote "no."
              Mr. DWIGGINS When his name was called, in explanation of his vote, said: While I am
                in favor of granting to everybody, no matter what their color is, all the rights I
                have myself, I desire to say that if this amendment does prevail I will still vote
                for the resolution on the principal that half a loaf is better than no bread. I vote
                "no."
              Mr. GREEN, in explanation of his vote, when his name was called, said: This I hold
                to be a fundamental principle that if you make the female part of the community
                liable to law and make them suffer the penalties of the law, I say give them the
                right of suffrage. He voted "no."
              Mr. MORGAN, when his name was called, said: I am apposed to classing my wife with
                negroes, therefore, I vote "no."
              Mr. STEELE, when his name was called, said: I am placed in a difficult position. I
                profess to be an accommodating man when I can be without violating principle, and
                would be glad if this question presented itself in a shape where I could accommodate
                my friends the democrats in ridding them  of
                what may possibly happen to them if this amendment does not prevail, and that is the
                embrace of Dinah. [Laughter.] I am very sure the Democratic party has suffered more
                in that way than any other party in the world. I vote "no."
              The vote was then announced as above recorded; and so the amendment was agreed
                to.
              The question recurring on the passage of the resolution, it was rejected by yeas
                20, nays 27--as follows:
              
                
                  
                    YEAS--Messrs Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson. Beggs, Brown,
                      Case, Caven, Collett, Dittemore, Dwiggins, Fossick, Green, Hess, Keigwin,
                      Lasselle, Miller, Robinson, Scott, Steele, and Taylor--20.
                    NAYS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Bobo, Bradley, Bird,
                      Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dougherty, Elliott, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gray,
                      Gregg, Hadley, Henderson, Hooper, Hubbard, Johnson Martindale, Morgan,
                      Rosebrough, Stroud, Wadge, Williams and Wood--27.
                  
                
              
              Pending the roll call--
              Mr. DITTIMORE in explanation of his vote, when his name was called said: Not
                wishing to spoil the vote I gave in favor of white women, I vote "aye."
              Mr. GRAY, when his name was called laid: I would have been happy of an opportunity
                to reply to the speech of the Senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown] but was cut off by
                the previous question. If the resolution had not been amended I should have voted
                for it, as it is now, I vote "no."
              Mr. MARTINDALE, in explanation of his vote, said: While I should have heartily
                voted for the resolution as introduced originally, I believe that the time has
                passed in this country when distinctions should be made in law on account of color
                in every thing either civil or political, and while voting for this resolution would
                commit me to the doctrine that persons should be excluded from political rights on
                account of color I can not vote for it, therefore I vote "no."
              Mr. MORGAN, when his name was called, said: As I introduced the resolution that
                called forth this one, I would like very much to vote for it, and intended to do so,
                and probably would do so now but I have been instructed by my wife to vote against
                it. [Laughter] I vote "no"
              Mr. SCOTT, when his name was called, said: I don't clearly apprehend the resolution
                as it now stands. I understand that the word "white" has been inserted.
              The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Yes, sir.
              Mr. SCOTT. Believing that a half loaf is better than no bread at all, I am willing
                to vote for that even; though that word certainly makes it void. I vote "aye."
              Mr. WADGE, when his name was called, said: In explanation of my vote I will say
                that I am most unequivocally in favor of extending the elective franchise to females
                of Indiana, and should have been pleased to support the resolution as introduced,
                but can not consent to record my vote in favor of a resolution which makes such
                discrimination on account of color. I am therefore compelled to vote "no."
              The vote was then announced as above recorded, and so the resolution was
                rejected.
              The question recurring on concurrence in the report of the majority of the
                Committee--
              The Senate refused to concur therein, by yeas 20, nays 27, as follows:
              
                
                  
                    YEAS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Bobo, Bradley, Bird,
                      Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dougherty, Elliott, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Greg,
                      Henderson, Jehnson, Morgan, Rosebrugh, Williams, and Wood--20.
                    NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Begars, Brown,
                      Case, Caven, Collett, Dittemore, Dwiggins, Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hess,
                      Hooper, Hubbard, Keigwin, Lasselle, Martindale, Miller, Robinson, Scott,
                      Steele, Strud, Taylor, and Wadge--27.
                  
                
              
              And then the Senate adjourned till ten o'clock to-morrow.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
          
            WEDNESDAY, February 15, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M., with order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. Goodwin, of
            Indianapolis.
          The order of reading the journal of yesterday was executed by the Clerk, till--
          On motion of Mr. GORDON, of Boone, its further reading was dispensed with.
          
            EQUALIZATION OF TAXATION.
            Mr. STONE (by unanimous consent) from the Joint Special Committee on the Subject of
              equalization of railroad taxation, reported a bill (H. R. 337) for an act to provide
              for the appraisement and equalization of appraisement of real estate in the State of
              Indiana for the purposes of taxation, which was read the first time.
            Also, a bill (H. R. 338) for an act to define the terms "true cash value in money,"
              as used in the laws for the assessment of real property for taxation.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH (obtaining unanimous consent for the purpose) from the
                Committee on Dykes and Drains, returned Mr. Taylor's bill [H. R.
              315] to authorize the construction of levees, dykes and drains by associations, etc.,
              with amendments, adding to section 6, a clause to this effect; "provided that the
              principal office of such associations, their books and papers shall be kept in this
              State in one of the counties through which their proposed work passes," and so
              amended, the Committee recommend the passage of the bill.
            On motion of Mr. TAYLOR, the bill was then read the second time; and the amendment
              reported by the committee was adopted.
            Mr. TAYLOR stated some of the principal features of the bill, and among them was the
              provisions for a Board of Equalization; and for appeals from the decisions of the
              Board of Assessments.
            The bill was ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. CAUTHORN asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill to amend the general laws
              for the incorporation of towns. He explained its necessity, on account of the u a
              constitutionality of the supplemental act of 1867, for amendment of section 22 of the
              original act, because the original sec-  tion was
              not fully set forth. He then introduced a bill [H. R. 339] for an act to amend section
              22 of an act for the incorporation of towns, defining their powers, and providing for
              the election of officers, approved June, 1852, and legalizing the acts of certain
              officers therein named; which was read the first time.
            Mr. GORDON of Boone indicated an amendment in regard to licensing billiard
              tables.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            The SPEAKER now announced the special order for the hour, viz: the consideration of
              the several fees and salaries bilk pending in the House.
            Mr. NEFF moved for the reading of the Senate (Henderson) fee bill.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter, insisted that the bills that have been reported from the
                Committee on Fees and Salaries be also read.
            The SPEAKER. They will be read. The Senate bill first.
            Mr. STEPHENSON said: The first 25 or 30 sections of the Senate bill are copied,
              without change, from the present law--those in regard to the fees of the clerks, etc.,
              of the Supreme and other Courts.
            The Senate fee bill, No. 4, was read through by the clerk.
            Mr. CONNER proposed an amendment to the bill by way of substituting the committee's
              bill [H. R. 206] for regulating the salaries and compensation of county officers
              repealing and providing penalties.
            Mr. WILSON proposed a substitute for the amendment, which he subsequently
              withdrew.
            Mr. McDONALD moved to refer the subject to a select committee of five.
            Mr. NEFF appealed to the gentleman to withdraw that motion. He would adopt the Senate
              bill without dotting an "i" or crossing a "t."
            Mr. McDONALD declined. He was not to be gagged by this bill or any other. He would
              have a fee bill that will give equal justice to all. He would modify his motion
              according to the suggestion of the gentlemen, and asked for a committee of one from
              each Congressional District)
            Mr. BALLINGER was in favor of the motion of the gentleman from Whitley. It was most
              appropriate that so long a bill and so important should go to a committee of one from
              each Congressional District. He intended to see a fee bill passed, and did not think
              there was any intention to gag anybody.
            Mr. DEFREES did not think there could be anything gained by such a reference.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter. This matter reaches every interest in the State. Here are two
              bills of the House and one from the Senate which gentlemen desire to pass without
              dotting an "i" or crossing a "t." He could tell the gentlemen that, pursuing such a
              course, they will wake up and find that they have voted themselves into their
              political graves. The committee suggested might report a bill that we could pass. A
              fee bill should originate in the House of Representatives--Representatives are nearer
              to the people than Senators. The committee could report at an early day.
            Mr. McDONALD said they could report to-morrow at 2 o'clock.
            Mr. MITCHELL apprehended that unless we come to a direct vote on this Senate bill
              (though he himself could be suited better) we will not be able to pass a fee bill this
              session.
            Mr. NEFF considered it the best we can get. He was opposed to some of its features,
              but it was a compromise. It was introduced early, No. 4. It had been printed, laid on
              our tables and fully discussed, and now at this late day of the session to talk about
              raising a committee to agree upon what kind of a bill we will have would be fatal to
              the whole measure.
            Mr. McDONALD. Will you vote for a bill that is not self sustaining--that will not
              make up the salaries out of the fees?
            Mr. NEFF--Yes, sir. The County Commissioners may make it up in amount not exceeding
              $300 a year. He proceeded to urge the passage of a fee bill, and to say that political
              graves have no terror to him.
            Mr. MAJOR considered this perhaps the best thing we can get. There was no justice in
              giving to officers more money than can be made in other employments.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, was opposed to reference, but counseled moderation. He was
              opposed to some features of the Senate bill--the allowances are too great. His was an
              average county, and the bill would give our county officers $4,000 a year. The people
              would not be satisfied with that provision.
            Mr. COX stated the popular interest in this question, and the necessity of a
              compromize upon it. He opposed the reference; it would be fatal to the whole thing.
              The people demand a fee bill.
            On motion of Mr. MARTIN of Putnam, Mr. McDonald's motion was laid on the table.
            Mr. BROWNING hoped the amendment substitute would not be adopted. It was not as good
              as the original bill--not as good as the present law. He was not altogether pleased
              with the original bill, but this is a matter upon which we are compelled to make
              concessions. This bill is a compromise, as between Senator Henderson and Judge
              Martindale--Republican and Democrat. He was willing to adventure upon voting down the
              amendment, for if we neglect our duty in this matter, political graves ought to be
              dug, and will be.
            Mr. CONNER took the range of debate in support of his substitute, and in opposition
              to the Senate bill, remembering and announcing the fact that he was returned here as a
              Representative from Hamilton county, against the Republican nominee, in a county
              giving one thousand five hundred majority. He was here to present this question fairly
              and squarely; and he did so in a rapid statement of facts and figures, with deductions
              to dissuade the House from the passage of the Senate bill, which is as long as the
              moral  law, and if it is like the moral law in
              any other respect he was not able to perceive it.
            Mr. KENNEDY submitted a few words in reply to old Rip Van Winkle, who has just waked
              up. (Laughter.) It seemed to him that the gentleman's substitute was reforming
              backward. He read the 13th, 16th and 17th sections of the substitute; and would like
              to know how long it would take the county commissioners to consider these individual
              items of fees paid and fees charged and unpaid, and all that. If he was not mistaken
              this substitute would impose upon them and upon all concerned far heavier tasks than
              they have now to perform. Talk about political graves--he would rather be eternally
              buried politically than to vote for such a bill as this.
            On motion of Mr. RUDDELL the House took a recess till 2 o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Speaker resumed at two o'clock P. M., and announced the special order.
            Mr. TAYLOR took the floor, more than anything else to propose and insist upon
              satisfactory action on this subject. The Senate bill proposed a too liberal
              compensation to be agreeable to the people of his region. He thought there might be a
              better way than to trust to such a voluminous bill. We can provide that the County
              Auditor and Treasurer shall be salaried, and the Clerks and Sheriffs to be paid in
              fees to a certain amount. He would have the sense of the House as between the
              principle of a fee bill under a bureau management, and the principle of graded
              salaries. There could be no difficulty in making the Auditor and Treasurer salaried
              officers; and the offices of Clerk and Sheriff could be made self-sustaining, by fees.
              These latter, under the present law, were no more than they ought to be. Then where
              was the use of establishing circumlocutionary compensations for these? He reasoned in
              favor of taking this course at some length: and he showed how, through hodge podge,
              the Senate bill would work injustice to these officers. The less we do about changing
              the present law, while at the same time we correct the evil, and afford the needful
              remedy, the better. He insisted that a committee could soon cut out the cumbrousness
              of the Senate bill; and it were better to have the sense of the House as to the
              principles involved; and thereupon he submitted a resolution to the effect: That it is
              the sense of the House that the offices of County Auditor and County Treasurer should
              be made salaried offices, with salaries graded according to population--adding to the
              Teasurer fees for collecting delinquent taxes--such salaries to be paid out of the
              county treasuries; and that the offices of Clerk and Sheriff remain as they now are,
              but with a provision limiting their compensation to a certain amount per annum, and
              that the Senate bill, No. 4, with the amendment, be referred to said Committee, with
              instructions to report thereon to-morrow.
            Mr. NEFF reiterated his objections to this course. He admitted that in a few counties
              the county officers have corruptly taken advantage of the law and pocketed enormous
              compensations, urging the popular demand for remedy. And he spoke of the amendment as
              impracticable, and it had been shown that the House was divided, and he was opposed to
              the gentleman's resolution. He had no hope but in the Senate bill--the result of a
              compromise after long and patient and wise consideration in that body. He pointed out
              its most acceptable provisions- all officers included in one fee bill and the guarded
              and graded curtailments as to all of them. Better to stand by this bill as the
              rock--perfect it if need be. Better half a loaf than no bread.
            Mr. McDONALD, with all deference to the Senate, was disposed to do right. He
              supported the resolution because it was right. Those amongst the best and wisest of
              that body had voted against this bill. He wanted to get at this remedy in the right
              way. He wanted no relief for his county--having honest officials there; but he would
              vote with the gentlemen from Putnam for a remedy in other counties. Individually he
              might prefer the bill of Mr. Haynes: and next to that the committee bill proposed to
              be substituted here by Mr. Conner.
            Mr. CAUTHORN stated his position briefly, and moved to lay Mr. Taylor's resolution on
              the table. The yeas and nays thereon resulting--yeas 56, nays 34--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Ballenger, Barnaby, Britton, Browning, Bruner,
                    Butterworth, Caldwell, Cauthorn, Conner, Copner, Cunningham, Curtis, Devol,
                    Donham, Furnas, Galletine, Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Cass, Guthrie, Hardin,
                    Hartley, Haynes, Heilman, Henderson, Hendry, Hill, Holland. Hooker, Hynes,
                    Martin of Putnam, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Minich, Miles, Millikan,
                    Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff. Oatley. Ray, Shutt, Snodgrass, Stephens, Stephenson,
                    Stone, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Walker, Washburn, Warrum, Zenor and Mr.
                    Speaker--56
                  NAYS--Messrs. Abbett, Beeler, Biggs, Calkins of Fulton,
                    Calkins of Porter, Coggswell, Defrees, Deputy, Friedley, Gordon of Boone,
                    Hawley, Kennedy, Kirkpatrick, Knight, Martin of Wayne, McDonald, Monroe,
                    Netherton, Rawles, Ruddell, Sabin, Sayers, Stanley, St. John, Strickland,
                    Taylor, Tebbs, White, Williams, Wilson, Wood, Woodward, and Mr. Wymer--34.
                
              
            
            So the resolution was laid on the table ; and the question recurred on the adoption
              of the substitute.
            Mr. WILLIAMS desired to move that the bill be made the special order for Monday.
            Mr. WASHBURN demanded the previous question on the amendment, but did not press
              it.
            Mr. BIGGS suggested that under the amendment the largest fee that can be taxed is
              twelve dollars. Now a protracted trial could not be provided for.
            Mr. STEPHENSON said these cases allowed five dollars per day after the first.
            Mr. BIGGS showed how the amendment would reduce the fees from $700 to $82 for a case
              that shall take up 14 days. And, as the Chair suggests, the Auditor and Treasurer have
              to be paid also out of these fees, which makes it all the worse. These cases occur  frequently; so that the officers must do without
              adequate fees.
            Mr. CONNER. The substitute is not the bill as reported from the committee. It adopts
              that in part. It leaves the Sheriffs just as they are now. The Clerk is not a
              defendant in litigated cases for his fees; all State cases, and motions and orders
              came in.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, showed that the amendment bill increases the pay of officers
              in the smaller counties. The bill is radically wrong in this, and the Senate bill is
              worse.
            Mr. BALLENGER. The more he examined the substitute the more he was convinced of its
              impracticability. It will not pay the proposed salaries of these officers in counties
              of the average population, and it has been so imperfectly digested that it will not
              reimburse those counties. It will leave county officers without adequate compensation,
              or compel the counties to pay them out of the county fund. We want to deal justly and
              fairly while We do not want our county officers to realize large fortunes out of their
              positions. We do not want them to be losers by them. But something has been said about
              the enormous fees that will be paid under the bill from the Senate; and they have been
              vastly overstated. He showed by figures, that under the Senate bill in his own county
              of Wayne, with a population of 30,000, the clerk's compensation would be but $3,500,
              and what he may realize from per cents of collections, for the pay of himself and
              deputies.
            Mr. NEFF. He is allowed $900 additional for the Criminal Court.
            Mr. BALLENGER--Yes, for deputy. He proceeded: In the county of Allen, with a
              population of forty-six thousand, the clerk and his deputies will receive five
              thousand six hundred dollars under the Senate bill. The clerk of the county of
              Tippecanoe will have four thousand dollars; and they have not less than four deputies
              each. And in the county of Vigo, with a population of thirty-five thousand, the clerk
              and his deputies will have four thousand dollars, with the additional nine hundred
              dollars on account of the Criminal Court. These compensations will not make these
              clerks very rich.
            Mr. BROWNING. What do they get under the present law?
            Mr. BALLENGER. That is an algebraic quantity, indicated by "x." [Laughter.] The clerk
              of the county of Floyd gets the magnificent sum of $2,500. Gentleman have allowed
              their imaginations to be heated on this subject. Now, in Marion county, with a
              population of sixty-five thousand, and in round numbers the clerk and his deputies
              would be allowed $7,000.
            Mr. WILSON in his seat. That clerk has nine deputies.
            Mr. BALLENGER. Should we not be just in this matter? Gentlemen propose to cut down
              these compensations so that these officers can not live. He admitted that whenever we
              attempted to cut down the fees in the larger counties, we strike at the smaller
              counties with a vigorous hand, and can't help it; and that, when gentlemen compare the
              facts with the Senate bill they will find some things objectionable on that score. He
              concluded by giving his opinion that the main features of the Senate bill ought to be
              adopted as law.
            Mr. CONNER'S substitute was rejected by yeas 12, nays 79, and the question recurred
              on the Senate bill.
            Mr. HAYNES submitted his bill as an amendment by way of substitute, which was read by
              the Clerk.
            Mr. H. demanded the previous question thereon, and under its pressure it was rejected
              without a division.
            Mr. WILSON proposed further to amend the Senate bill by substituting the fee bill of
              the gentleman from Orange (Mr. Coggswell), which was also read by the Clerk.
            Mr. WILSON then took the floor and submitted numerous statements of figures to
              exhibit its advantages over the Senate bill and the existing law. He concluded his
              remarks by showing the injustice which the Senate bill would work, especially against
              the officers of Marion county. The Clerk of Marion county would not be able to
              discharge his duties under it. It would simply pay him for his deputy hire. Hearing it
              intimated that he would not vote for this substitute, he replied that he did not
              propose to vote for any but a fee bill; and if this is voted down he proposed to vote
              against the salary bill. He never would vote for such a bill as that from the
              Senate.
            Mr. STEPHENSON took the floor in favor of the Senate bill, which he reviewed and
              critisized, comparing it with other propositions. His remarks, with the rest of this
              debate, are crowded out for want of space.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, followed on the same side.
            Mr. RUDDELL submitted a resolution to refer the Senate bill, etc., to a committee of
              one from each Congressional District, with instructions to amend so as to allow the
              county officers in counties of over 7,000, and not exceeding 10,000 inhabitants, all
              the fees provided in in said bill; and in counties not exceeding 12,000, 90 per cent.
              of the fees allowed said bill; and so on, diminishing the per cent. of fees in
              proportion to the enlargements of population in the several counties.
            The SPEAKER (Mr. Naff in the chair) ruled the resolution to be out of order.
            Mr. RUDDELL then proceed to review the pending propositions and intimating his desire
              to take the Senate bill as a basis, and thereupon to regulate and grade the fees
              according to the population of the counties.
            Mr. BALLENGER demanded the previous question; and under its force Mr. Wilson's
              substitute was rejected--yeas, 22; nays, 65.
            On motion of Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, the further consideration of the bill was
              postponed and it was made the special order for half past nine o'clock to-morrow
              morning.
            Mr. OATLEY obtained leave of absence on account of ill health.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, presented a railroad petition.

            

            
              REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
              Mr. SANSBERRY, from the Committee on the Organization of Courts,
                returned the resolution for abolishing the Common Pleas, etc.; recommending that it
                be laid on the table--the House having appointed a special committee to consider
                that matter.
              The report was concurred in.
              On motion of Mr. HOLLAND, the Court bill, [H. R. 257,] was taken up and referred to
                members interested.
              Mr. ABBETT, from the Committee on Education, returned Mr.
                Major's resolution relative to compelling children to attend the common schools,
                recommending that it be indefinitely postponed.
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. HAYNES, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges,
                returned Mr. Beeler's bird protection bill [H. R. 140] recommending that it be
                indefinitely postponed.
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. DEPUTY returned the engrossed bill [S.2] recommending its passage.
            
            
              CONGRESSIONAL REPRESENTATION.
              Mr. BROWNING (by unanimous consent)introduced a bill [H. R. 340] for an act
                districting the State for Congressional purposes, and providing in a certain event
                for the election of a Congressman for the State at large.
              Mr. BALLENGER moved ineffectually--that the bill be indefinitely postponed--yeas
                44, nays 45.
              Mr. McDONALD moved that it be referred to a special committee of one from each
                Congressional District.
              Mr. BALLENGER moved that the motion be laid on the table, which was rejected--yeas
                43, nays 47.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, made an in effectual motion to adjourn.
              Mr. McDONALD demanded the previous question on his motion, and under its force the
                bill was referred to the special committee yeas 46, nays 40.
              The SPEAKER suggested that there has been no order taken for the printing of the
                report of the trustees of the Normal School.
              On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS, it was ordered that 500 copies thereof be printed.
              And then, at 5:40 o'clock, the House adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            THURSDAY. February 16, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A. M., the LIEUT. GOVERNOR in the Chair.
          Prayer by Rev. THOS. LYNCH, of Grace M. E.
            Church, of this city.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read.
          On motion by Mr. HOOPER, the order of business was suspended and the Senate agreed to
            consider the spcial order of yesterday, being the bills for the amendment of the Common
            School law.
          Mr. HENDERSON stated that the Committee on the Burson case was ready
            to report, and, regarding it as a privileged question, he moved the call of the Senate.
            He was understood to say that there was no disposition to spring the previous question,
            but he desired every Senator should be in his seat to hear the report.
          The call proceeded, and 45 members answered to their names.
          Mr. MARTINDALE moved to dispense with further proceedings under the call.
          The motion was rejected--Yeas 22, nays 24.
          Mr. HENDERSON moved that the doors be locked, and the absentees sent for.
          Mr. HENDERSON asked if there were any absentees.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR replied that Mr. Elliott only is absent.
          Mr. HENDERSON withdrew his motion to send for absentees.
          Mr. HOOPER moved that the Senate adjourn.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR put the question hurriedly at 10:45 o'clock, (Mr. BROWN, Mr.
            HENDERSON and many other Senators demanding the yeas and nays) and declared the Senate
            adjourned, amid much confusion, and loud calls for the ayes and noes.
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Senate met at 2 o'clock.
            Mr. HENDERSON demanded that the order pending at the adjournment should be now taken
              up, and thereupon he submitted a report from the majority of the select committee
              appointed to consider the contested election case of Hon. John W. Burson.
            It refers to the testimony taken in the case, and concludes with a resolution
              declaring that John W. Burson is disqualified from holding the office of State
              Senator, and not entitled to a seat on this floor as a Senator from the counties of
              Delaware and Madison, and that the same be declared vacant.
            Mr. STEELE. I now move that the Clerk proceed with the reading of the evidence in the
              case, so that we may know whether we shall vote for the resolution or not.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. It is the right of any Senator to call for the reading of
              the evidence, and it will be read as a matter of course.
            Mr. HENDERSON. Mr. President: I send up the testimony.
            Mr. DITTEMORE demanded a call of the Senate.
            It was ordered, and being taken 47 members answered to their names.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. All are present except the Senator from Monroe, (Mr.
              Hughes,) who has leave of absence.
            Mr. GRAY. I ask for the reading of the minority report to be followed by the reading
              of the testimony.
            The LT. GOVERNOR. Where is the report of the minority. Send it up.
            The minority report signed H. D. Scott was then read. It concludes with a resolution
              declaring that John W. Burson is entitled to the immediate enjoyment of all the
              privileges of a Senator on this floor.
            Mr. GRAY. I ask for the reading of the evidence.
            The LT. GOVERNOR. The evidence will now be read.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. I have no objection to having any portion of the evidence read referred
              to either in the majority or minority reports for the purpose of giving information to
              the Senate, but I do object to the taking up of the time of the Senate with reading a
              great deal of the evidence which is not relied on either by the majority or the
              minority of the Committee. The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The  Chair has uniformly ruled that is within the province of
              any Senator to call for the reading of any paper, bill, resolution or memorial, and
              thereupon to have it read. More especially in a case of this kind, where the Senate is
              sitting as a court, if a Senator calls for the reading of evidence it is not in the
              province of the Senate to prevent his having any or all of the evidence read.
            Mr. BROWN. To bring this matter before the Senate, I move that there be only that
              portion of the testimony read to which reference is made in the majority and minority
              reports.
            Mr. STEELE. I insist that the motion is out of order.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Yes, sir, the Chair rules that out of order.
            Mr. BROWN. The Chair will not rule it out of order till--
            The LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR, (interrupting) I do rule it out of order, and the gentleman
              can not speak on the question.
            Mr. BROWN. I appeal from the decision of the Chair.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. Very well, sir, you can speak to that.
            Messrs. Brown, Steele and Glessner spoke to the question of the appeal, the latter
              demanding the previous question. The Senate seconded the demand by yeas 26, nays
              20.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved to reconsider this vote, and thereupon addressed the Senate at
              length.
            On motion of Mr. BROWN this motion was laid on the table by yeas 24, nays 22--as
              follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brwwn.
                    Bird, Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty, Dwiggins, Francisco, Fuller,
                    Glessner, Gregg, Henderson, Johnson, Keigwin, Morgan, Rosebrugh, Stroud and
                    Williams--24.
                  NAYS--Messrs Andrews. Beardsley, Beeson, Case, Caven.
                    Collett, Eliiott, Fosdick, Gray, Green.Hadley, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard.
                    Martindale, Miller, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--22.
                
              
            
            The question being "shall the decision of the Chair stand as the judgment of the
              Senate?"--
            The appeal was sustained by yeas 23, nays 24.
            Mr. BEARDSLEY made an ineffectual motion to adjourn--yeas 22, nays 25.
            Mr. DWIGGINS moved to amend the motion (Mr. Brown's) so that all the evidence taken
              by the Committee which is pertinent to the case shall be read to the Senate, and to
              determine what evidence is pertinent a committee of five be appointed by the Chair
              report what is pertinent and what is not.
            Mr. STEELE made an ineffectual motion to adjourn--yeas 22, nays 24.
            Mr. BROWN demand the previous question on his motion.
            The Senate seconded the demand by yeas 24, nays 22.
            Mr. DWIGGINS moved to reconsider the vote just taken, and was proceeding to speak in
              support of his amendment, but
            Mr. BROWN(interrupting) stated that theSenator from Cass (Mr. Lasselle) has made a
              committee. If you on that side are willing to take we will take it on this side.
            Mr. LASSELLE read his resolution that a committee be appointed to consist of Messrs.
              Williams, Andrews, Henderson, Green and Bradley, which shall report tomorrow morning
              that portion of the evidence that shall be read to the Senate.
            Mr. STEELE. Allow that to be amended so as to have the committee half and half.
            There being no objection, Mr. Scott was added, and the resolution was adopted as a
              substitute by general consent.
            Mr. Case obtained leave of absence till next Tuesday.
            And then the Senate adjourned.
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            THURSDAY, February 16, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M. The order of prayer by the Rev. Dr. HOLLIDAY.
          The clerk executed the order of the reading of the journal of yesterday till
          On motion by Mr. CAUTHORN, its further reading was dispensed with.
          
            MUNICIPAL TOWN CORPORATIONS.
            On motion of Mr. CAUTHORN (the restrictions being suspended for the purpose) his bill
              [H. R 339] to amend section 22 of an act for the incorporation of towns, &c.,
              approved June 11, 1850, and legalizing the acts of persons and officers therein named,
              taken under the act of 1867, which has been declared to be unconstitutional, and which
              he introduced yesterday, was taken up, read twice and finally passed the House of
              Representatives--yeas 82, nays 3.
          
          
            POWERS OF ROAD COMPANIES.
            On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS, the bill [S. 69] authorizing turnpike and gravel road
              companies to condemn lands for ditches, dirt and gravel (which was included in Mr.
              Cauthorn's motion to suspend the restrictions) was taken up.
            Mr. WILLIAMS explained its provisions. The law of 1852 prohibits road company from
              going on lands over which their roads do not run. This bill proposes that they may go
              on other lands, and by paying for it provide for the needful ditches, dirt and gravel
              for their work.
            The bill was twice read, and the vote on its final passage in the House of
              Representatives resulted--yeas 37, nays 47--so the bill was rejected.
            Mr. DAVIDSON offered an order (which was adopted) for $75 worth of additional
              stationery for the Clerks.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz.: the consideration of the Henderson
              fees and salaries bill [S. 4].
            Mr. CAUTHORN desired the previous question on the final reading.
            Mr. WILSON indicated an amendment by a substitute.
            Mr. DAVIDSON deprecated haste as to a subject which the people of the State have long
              felt an interest, which culminated last year.

            

            Mr. CLLKINS also gave notice of amendments to sections 20 and 62; it was only till
              late last night that he could examine the bill.
            Mr. CAUTHORN insisted on the demand for the previous question; and there was a
              second, and the main question, viz: Shall the bill be now read a third time? was
              agreed to.
            Mr. McDONALD and Mr. WHITE demanded that their protest against this proceeded be
              entered on the journa,r and it was ordered that their protest be entered
              accordingly.
            The Clerk then read the bill through the third time.
            Mr. DAVIDSON desired to place himself on the record as protesting not only against
              the passage of this bill, but also against the manner in which it was sought to pass
              it; and with Mr. Calkins and others, he insisted that the force of the previous
              question was exhausted on the motion to read the bill the third time. (To which Mr.
              Cauthorn assented.) If there was any one question that stirred the people more than
              any other in the last canvass, it was this. And he held that there was yet plenty of
              time to consider this bill. He had heard it read but once, and in nearly every
              instance the fees were rather advanced than reduced; and the popular demand was not to
              prevent the officials from getting rich; but it was the abuse of the fee bills. Now
              this salary bill gives them more money. As to his county, with a population of 35,000,
              you give the Clerk $4,000; and the very beat he now could make out of his fees was
              about that amount. Then the bill gives him $2,000 more for the additional Courts. He
              will be able then to save a net compensation of $4,000. Two thousand was enough, as he
              had told his people. Men of integrity and ability would gladly accept the office at
              that. The bill afforded no relief from the oppressions of the fee system. The Courts
              ought to be open--free to all--yet you propose to increase the expenses of the jury
              trial. Men do not litigate for the love of it- many would rather forego their rights
              than go into the courts. He would regret to have this General Assembly adjourn without
              a fee bill, but if we can not do anything better than this bill propsses, he would
              say, let us go back again to the people with the question.
            Mr. MITCHELL had not heard any objection to this salary bill, outside of the county
              officers. Had there been a petition here asking not to do this? He considered this
              bill the best we can get, and proposed to try it for the next two years.
            Mr. NEFF endorsed the same sentiment, conceding also that the bill is not perfect.
              The lobbies were crowded by officials against this bill, and this convinced him that
              it was a step in the right direction. It was to place the official in the position of
              the clerk in your store. Thus far shall he go, and no farther. He illustrated the
              abuses of the present fees charged for executions. This bill restricts these charges
              to one dollar, cutting off all constructive fees. The world was not made in a day--we
              can't do everything at once under our pledges; but it is the best we can do. Gentlemen
              oppose this bill because it cuts down their fees.
            Mr. CAUTHORN called attention to the necessity of reform in this direction by reading
              what the Governor in his message says about it. No bill could be devised that could be
              expected to be perfect at once. The opponents of the bill do not agree -one saying
              that it cuts down, and another that it increases the pay. He answered these
              objections, that in most cases the fees were the same, but the surplus goes into the
              treasury, and so affords relief to the whole people. He illustrated the operations of
              the bill by statements of figures.
            Mr. McDONALD objected to the bill because it is unfair. It fixes the salaries of the
              four county officers--the pay of the Auditor and Treasurer is well enough, but it
              leaves the Clerks and Sheriffs without adequate compensation in the smaller counties.
              You exact of them to issue a venira to draw a jury, without compensation; which
              trenches on the bill of rights in the State constitution. In reply to Mr. Browning, he
              admitted that it would decrease the compensation of these offices in his county. He
              objected to the unfairness of the bill as between the county officers. He objected to
              other provisions of the bill--that requiring a transcript of the fees every three
              months, etc. Once in six months or twelve months would be often enough. With regard to
              the intimation about officials in the lobbies on this question, he had heard of no
              corrupt approches on this subject or any other. He regarded these county officers as
              gentlemen--honest men. The gentleman on my right asks if I would make all these
              officials equal as to compensation? He replied that he would pay them according to
              what they do. This bill also was open to abuse as much as the old fee bill. The
              complaint was against the extravagant and dishonest allowances of the County
              Commissioners and the Courts. He wanted the bill corrected as to the Clerks and
              Sheriffs; he would not offer factious opposition.
            Mr. BROWNING spoke frankly that this bill was not all he could desire, but we must
              make concessions and compromise. There were some denouncing this bill because it cuts
              down the fees, and others because it raises them. The wiser course was to adopt the
              middle ground. Was not the opposition here, because, as intimated yesterday by Mr.
              Mitchell, that gentlemen wanted to go home and take some of the county offices? He
              predicted that, yet, these men would be compelled to vote for it; and expected the
              friends of the bill to stand firm, for it was apporent that we could get no other. It
              decreases the fees where that is desirable, and effectually cuts off the
              stealings.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. Not a friend of the bill had yet spoken to it. They had not
              shown its advantages over the present law, and they could not. He read that provision
              of the Constitution which requires equal taxation, excepting eleemosynary  cases. What one of the provisions of the bill protects the
              rights of orphans and litigants? He objected also to the construction fees to which it
              opens the door to certain counties where it is to the interest of the officers to tax
              up their fees to augment their compensation. He objected also, to the provision that
              the clerks and sheriffs shall place their fees together--a hodge-podge--as stated
              yesterday, and their pay to be made by order of the County Commissioners. This might
              work injustice through the political partialities of the Commissioners, if these two
              officials should happen to be not of the same politics. The want of systamatic attack
              was to be attributed to the fact that the objections to the bill were too numerous to
              get them up in order.
            Mr. COPNER said the bill does not lessen the popular burdens. It has no other purpose
              than so pauperise certain officials. He objected strenuously to the haste in which the
              passage of the bill was urged here.
            Mr. BIGGS said we had not the time to make the necessary examinations for concert of
              action on either side. Gentlemen had insinuated an argument for the bill because the
              county officers were lobbying against it. This was a matter to be proved. He had not
              been approached in the matter, and apprehended none. This was for the other side. He
              was for retrenchment; but this bill was not that. Where was the feature of the bill
              that relieves the burdens of litigants? This was the chief remedy which the people
              demanded--a lessening of the burdens of those who are compelled to go into court. The
              fees in these cases were not reduced by this bill, and they were to go into the county
              treasury. This was taking money out of one man's pocket for the benefit of others. He
              would vote in the negative on this bill, regardless of consequences.
            Mr. ST. JOHN said his people demanded of him to see that some measure be adopted to
              repress constructive fees. If he thought he could obtain a better bill he would oppose
              this. But he could not go home and do nothing. It may be that the bill operates
              unequally. In Grant county the clerk would get $3,300, and that was comparatively too
              much. He would be willing to see the fees made lower. He also objected to the surplus
              of fees going into the County Treasury. But considering the pressure, he would vote
              for the bill with his protest indicated.
            Mr. RUDDELL stated again that the bill did not remove the burdens of litigants, and
              be showed that it does not remove the temptation to the corrupt taxing of constructive
              fees. The bill did not decrease, but in some instances it increases the fees--as the
              clerk's fees under dismissals, and entering a verdict, empannelling a jury, issuing
              marriage licenses, &c. Splendid specimen of reform this, to be passed under the
              previous question! And he showed the same incongruity in regard to the sheriff's fees,
              and the fees of the prosecuting attorneys--the latter's fees in divorce cases,
              &c--doubling the fee in several cases which he cited. He also made the point that
              in section 28, page 51 of the bill the county auditor's allowances are increased by
              adding his fees and commissions on his management of the common school fund. It was
              not sufficient to increase the compensation of this officer, but he must draw yet more
              for the management of the school fund. He asked for unanimous consent to amend the
              bill in this section by striking out that provision.
            Several voices objected.
            Mr. KENNEDY. The bill was false to the profession of economy; it imposes onerous
              burdens on the officials; and this was to be passed under the party lash, which he saw
              was being successfully applied.
            Mr. DEFREES would have been better pleased to consider the bill by sections; to
              obviate objections he proposed to recommit the bill, with instructions to amend by
              inserting in the proper place these words: "the present fee bill less twenty five per
              cent., as to clerks and sheriffs."
            The yeas and nays on this motion resulted--yeas, 24; nays, 71, as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Barnaby, Beeler, Butterworth, Conner,
                    Defrees, Deputy, Devol, Furnas, Gordon, of Boone, Heilman, Hooker, King,
                    Kirkpatrick, Knight. Lines, Millikan, Myers, Ruddell, Sayers, Williams, Wilson,
                    and Mr. Wymer--24.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Biggs, Britton, Browning, Bruner, Caldwell,
                    Calkins of Fulton, Calkins of Porter, Cauthorn, Coggswell, Copner, Cox,
                    Cunningham, Curtis, Davidson, Donham Friedley, Gallentine, Gentry Goble, Gordon
                    of Cass, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Hawley, Haynes, Henderson, Hendry, Hill,
                    Holland Hynes, Kennedy, Major, Martin of Wayne, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland,
                    McGowan, Minich, Miles, Mitchell, Monroe, Montgomery, Neff, Netherton, Oatley,
                    Ray, Rawles, Rhodes, Rice, Sabin, Sansberry, Simpson, Shutt, Snodgras, Stanley,
                    Stephens, Stephenson, St. John, Stone, Strickland, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Tebbs,
                    Walker, Washburn, Warrum, White, Wood, Woodward, Zenor and Mr. Speaker--71.
                
              
            
            So the motion was rejected; and the question recurred on the passage of the bill.
            Mr. ZENOR demanded the previous question, and there was a second, and the final vote
              resulted--yeas 63, nays 33, as follows:
            
              
                
                  Yeas--Messrs. Abbett, Barnaby, Beeler, Britton, Browning, Bruner, Caldwell,
                    Cauthorn, Conner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Davidson, Defrees. Devol, Donham,
                    Gallentine, Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Boone, Gordon of Cass, Guthrie, Hardin,
                    Hartley, Hawley, Haynes, Heilman, Henderson, Hendry, Holland, Hynes,
                    Kirkpatrick, Major, Martin of Putnam, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan,
                    Minich, Miles, Mitchell, Montgomery, Myers, Neff, Netherton, Oatley, Ray, Rhodes
                    Rice, Shutt, Snodgrass. Stanley. Stephenson, St. John, Stone, Tarlton,
                    Taughinbaugh, Taylor, Walker, Washburn, Warrum, Woodward, Zenor and Mr.
                    Speaker--63.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Biggs, Bruner, Calkins of Fulton, Calkins of
                    Porter, Coggswell, Copner, Deputy, Friedley, Furnas, Hill, Hooker, Kennedy,
                    King, Knight, Lines, Martin of Wayne, Millikan, Monroe, Rawles, Ruddell, Sabin,
                    Sansberry, Sayers, Simpson, Stephens, Strickland, Tebbs, White, Williams,
                    Wilson, Wood, and Wymer--33
                
              
            
            Mr. BEELER explaining, said: During the pending of this bill I have voted at every
              opportunity for amending or modifying some of its most important features. But as I am
              satisfied from the action already  taken by the
              majority that it is the determination to pass this bill or allow nothing for the
              reduction of fees and salaries of county officers to pass during this session of the
              General Assembly, and although I do not believe that this measure will produce the
              relief asked and required by the people, yet with the hope that it may, or that if it
              does not, it will at least make matters no worse, and being willing that the measure
              may at least have a fair trial, I vote for its passage.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH, explaining, said : I earnestly desire to reduce fees and costs, but
              this bill in my opinion increases them in our courts of justice very materially, and
              since we have been, under the operation of the previous question precluded from even
              offering amendments I must vote no.
            Mr. CALDWELL was in favor of the passage of the bill as it came from the Senate
              without the dotting of an I or the crossing of a T, for the reason that it has been
              drafted with great care by the ablest, as well as the most experienced men in the
              other end of the Capitol.
            There are some provisions that he did not like in the bill, but its main features
              will in the future prevent the iniquitous practice on the part of county officers of
              charging up against litigants constructive fees.
            County officers should receive a reasonable compeasation for their official services,
              but should not be permitted to make princely fortunes off of the hard earnings of the
              people. Taking all these facts into consideration, he would vote for the final passage
              of the bill
            Mr. CALKINS of Fulton. Every bill on the subject of fees and salaries introduced in
              this General Assembly has been ordered printed except the one now on its
              passage--giving the members an opportunity to examine the same and vote sensibly and
              inteligently This bill has not been printed. It is put through under the gag rule--its
              contents are unknown to two-thirds of the members on this floor. I do not propose to
              go it blind on so important a matter, for these reasons I vote "No."
            Mr. COPNER. I came here pledged to vote for any reformatory measures that have a
              tendency to lesson the burthens of the people financially. I do not conceive that
              this, Senate bill reaches the evils complained of. I do not understand that this bill
              lifts much of the burthens from off the shoulders of the people. The fees of our
              county officers are paid by litigants, and the extravagant assessment by these
              officers is what is complained of by those who are so unfortunate as to be forced into
              our courts to maintain their rights and ask redress for grievances. This bill does not
              reduce the fees much below the present law; in fact, many are increased; and the worst
              feature in the whole thing is to say to the county officers, tax up the fees as this
              bill provides, pay yourselves a meagre salary, and place the balance in the coffers of
              your counties. Ill gotten gains! The off-spring of misfortune and, perhaps, misery. It
              is equivalent to saying, we don't care for the people so much as we do for the loaves
              and fishes. It is true the unfortunate litigants get back their proportion in taxes.
              But down in Old Montgomery, where "men are happy because they are virtuous," they only
              ask that these fees be only made sufficient to pay court expenses. Nothing more,
              nothing less. They believe that our courts should afford "justice freely and without
              purchase."
            2d. The next point is, that under this Sallary Bill there is no equity or equality
              about it, because the duties of some of our county officers will be greater than
              others, according to population, &c., &c.--nevertheless they are all paid
              alike, regardless of the amount of labor performed--which is direct opposition to
              every principle of right and justice--
            Therefore, Mr Speaker, I vote no.
            Mr. DAVIDSON. In view of the probability staring us in the face that the action of
              the House upon the bill will close all efforts at the present session of the
              Legislature to make any law reducing the large incomes of county officers and
              relieving the people of a portion of the burden resting so heavily upon them, I am
              constrained to relinquish my opposition to it, and give it my vote. Believing that its
              provisions contain but little of good, I can only hope that they may be fully charged
              with evil. My vote is given with regret and reluctance. It must be recorded under my
              protest -protest because of the hasty passage of the bill; because of its
              inequalities, its unjust provisions, its increase of fees, its too large
              allowances---in a word, because of its imperfections without number. With patience and
              harmony we could have done--we could yet do better; but if under the spur immature and
              ill consider it must pass, let it pass, but under my regrets and solemn protest.
            Mr. DEPUTY. I vote "no." First, because I consider the bill is unjust in its
              provisions. Second, because I desire a better bill; the passage of this bill will
              prevent the passage of a better one.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY. While I am extemely anxious to do something to correct the abuses which
              have grown up under our present laws in relation to fees, and to aid to the extent of
              my vote in any just measure of reform, I can not vote for this bill, for the reason
              that, in my judgment, it not only does not correct such abuses, but opens the door for
              an increase of the very evils of which the people now complain. It is not, in my
              judgment, a measure of reform, but the reverse. It does not decrease the burdens of
              the people, but increases them. It is neither just to the people, nor just to the
              officer. Its friends have steadily refused to permit any amendment, although all admit
              that the bill is defective and unsatisfactory. It s a piece of crude and hasty
              legislation, which can accomplish no good, but which must do great harm. I vote
              no.
            Mr. HAWLEY. I vote aye because I consider it to be a move in the right direc-  tion, although I do not believe it answers all the
              ends which the people demand; yet I fear unless that this measure becomes a law that
              nothing will be accomplished calculated to redeem the pledges made to our constituency
              to favor reform and retrenchment.
            Mr. HAYNES. I vote for the bill as being the best I can do toward correcting the
              abuses now practiced, and in redeeming my pledges in trying to reform the Fee and
              Salary system.
            Mr. HENDERSON. I vote aye under protest. Being in favor of a wholesome reform in the
              management of the soveral county offices throughout the State, and no other fee bill
              having presented itself to my judgment as good as this, and believing that a reduction
              would be proper, I risk voting for this bill, notwithstanding I think I can see many
              defects in it
            Mr. HOOKER I am in favor of retrenchment, but have tailed to see it in this bill. If
              the bill reduced the cost of litigation, as does the pay of county officers, I could
              support it, but, as it now stands, I vote no.
            Mr. KNIGHT. 1 The people demand a reduction of the fees taxed and assessed by our
              county officers. This bill does not in my judgment secure this, but, on the contrary,
              actually increases them.
            2. I believe the bill will prove cumbrous and vexatious in the details of its
              operations--imposing onerous additional labors on these officers, and without actual
              benefit to any one, or to the county at large.
            3. Few men go into law willingly--they are usually forced there
              because unable to meet the obligations of their contracts, and I believe it wrong to
              tax such men, above all others, for the benefit of the County Treasurp. Much more is
              it unjust to tax estates and minors for this purpose--as this bill may at least do
              indirectly.
            4. This bill will not prevent taxing constructive fees, they will continue to be
              taxed as heretofore, till the amount of salary is secured, and costs difficult to
              collect, will go uncollected. Believing this, I vote no.
            Mr. MARTIN of Putnam. I vote aye on this bill. I will explain my vote when the people
              whom I represent find fault with my action.
            Mr. MILLIKEN. I vote no under protest, for the reason that it does not answer the
              demands of my constituents, being, as I believe it, no improvement over the old
              law.
            Mr. McDONALD. I vote for the bill because something of the kind should be passed, I
              wish it could have been pruned of some of its unfair provisions. I always take the
              least I can get in such matters. My opposition, I think, has been a fair one; yet I am
              not willing to be considered captious in lay matter, against the will of the majority
              here. I vote aye.
            Mr. MONROE. I vote no from the fact I consider the bill unjust in its provisions. I
              desire a better bill.
            Mr. MILES. I vote yea, and in explanation of my vote I desire to say that the bill
              under consideration will not remedy the reform desired by the people. I represent,
              believing the bill gives county officers too much. Yet it being so near the close of
              the term, with no probability of doing better, and believing it is a move in the right
              direction, and indulging the hope thrt further legislation may continue to reform
              until each any every county officer in the State may be put on a living and equitable
              salary, vote aye.
            Mr. NETHERTON, Mr. Speaker. No subject perhaps is of greater moment to the people of
              this State than that involved in this bill, proposing to make certain reductions in
              the fees of county officers; and no member on this floor is more willing than I to
              join in any practicable measure looking toward "retrenchment and reform" in this
              direction; hence I had hoped that the pending bill might have either been recommitted
              with instructions to incorporate therein certain amendments, or have been taken by
              sections in order that its objectionable features might have been amended on the
              adoption of each section; but it seems to have been a foregone conclusion that such a
              course could not or should not be taken; and while protesting against the manner in
              which this bili has been forced through this House without opportunity for amendment,
              I shall vote aye on its passage, it being evident that it is all we can get now, and
              hoping that some of its provisions may in a measure be an improvement on the present
              law and in soma degree at least beneficial to the people.
            Mr. SANSBERRY. I protest against the Fee and Salary bill,and for reasons set down:
              1st, There is no reform or retrenchment proposed by this bill; 2d, It is no
              improvement on the present law, because it leaves the door wide open to officers to
              tax constructive fees as fully as under the present law, to prohibit which taxation of
              constructive, illegal and false fees is the demand of the people. This bill does not
              meet the demand, and hence I vote no.
            Mr. STANLEY. Believing as I do that this bill makes it unjust to litigants, I have
              been in favor of submitting it to a committee with several amendments; but the House
              refusing to recommit, and believing that it is much better than the old law on this
              subject, and also believing that this bill probably is the best we can get, and
              believing further that this bill cuts off all constructive fees of said offices. I
              therefore vote "Aye."
            Mr. ST. JOHN. Mr. Speaker, in voting for this measure I am aware that I shall not
              procure that for my constituents which I could desire. I believe if amendments to this
              bill had been allowed by its friends, it could have been put in a shape which would
              have met the wishes and desires of the people. The bill does not reduce the salaries
              of county officers as much as I could wish; but believing that no other bill can pass
              during the present session, and as this will to some extent reduce those salaries in
              my county, I am constrained to vote in favor of it; and do so under protest, believing
              that they who sent me here would be better satisfied to  know that this bill reduced still further the fees of the
              county officers of Grant county.
            Mr. STRICKLAND. On account of this bill having been put through under the gag of the
              "previous question," thus prohibiting investigation, and for fear of creating greater
              evils than those which now exist, I vote "no."
            Mr. TAYLOR. No member of this House is more sincerely desirous than I am that a
              suitable and thorough reformation should be made in the matter of the fees and
              salaries of county officers. My constiuents are more vitally interested in such a
              measure than in any other that can come before this Assembly. I am bound by the most
              solemn pledges to use all my efforts and influence to secure such a reform. But the
              bill under consideration does not meet my approbation, and will not be satisfactory to
              those whom I represent on this floor.
            
              It contains a general revision of the Fee bill, and in nearly every
                instance in which it makes any alteration in the existing fees, it is to increase
                them. The evils of the existing law are not confined to the mere magnitude of the
                incomes of county officers, but are found in equal degree in the oppressive burdens
                borne by the people in the payment of exorbitant fees and costs. These burdens are
                not diminished, but increased by this bill, a I understand it.
              The compensation to county officers allowed by this bill is too great. It
                will amount in Allen county to nearly seven thousand dollars per annum to the Clerk,
                Auditor and Sheriff, and about four thousand five hundred dollars to the Treasurer.
                This is more than my constituents are willing to pay these officers,and more than
                they are entitled to upon the basis of compensation for services rendered.
              The bill provides for arbitrary allowances to all county offices without
                any reference to the expenses of conducting the offices. The clerk and sheriff are
                required to put their fees into one common fund, and are then paid equal sums out of
                that fund without any regard to the sums put in by them. One of them may earn and
                pay into the fund twice as much as the other; for the purpose of earning those fees
                he may be compelled to pay out twice as much for deputies and clerks as the other,
                and yet both draw out equally.
              With singular inconsistency the bill, after providing salaries far above
                any fair standard of economy and reform, fails to provide any means of paying them,
                except, perhaps, in a few of the largest counties in the State. The clerk, auditor
                sheriff and treasurer have to be paid out of the fees collected by the clerk and
                sheriff. In most of the counties of the State this fund will be wholly insufficient
                to compensate the officers. Instead of diminishing the disparity now existing
                between the large and email counties, it will be largely increased.
              The bill provides an expensive, complicated and burden some system of red
                tape in the management of county business, where the same, and a better result could
                be attained by simpler means. This complication, instead of providing safeguards
                against frand, will in my opinion only furnish greater facilities for it. An adroit,
                shrewd, unscrupulous county official will find in the labyrinth of taxations,
                collections, payments, receipts, reports, vouchers, and repayments provided by this
                bill, more means of dodging responsibility, and evading the law, than he has under
                the present system.
              This bill has been forced upon this House in such precipitate haste that
                no opportunity has been allowed for consideration, discussion or amendment. I do not
                know what its provisions are in many respects. I have used every means in my power
                to find out; I have been in rny seat all the time; I have listened attentively when
                it has been read; and I have studied it every minute that I could get my hands on
                it; and yet I am not sure that I understand it in many important respects. It is now
                put on its passage under the previous question, by which is cut off, not only the
                right to speak, but the time to think, and opportunity to inquire. Such haste is not
                only unnecessary, but dangerous. We are compelled to vote for a bill which we do not
                understand, or vote against the only bill on this subject that may be presented to
                us during the session. If we do the former, we may enact an unwise and suicidal law;
                if we do the latter, we may defeat our only opportunity to effect anything toward
                this most desirable reform. With eighteen days of the session before us, and
                abundant time to examine this bill carefully, and discover and amend its defects,
                and pass it with our eyes open, I denounce the course of the majority on this floor
                as an act of supreme foolishness and outrageous tyranny.
            
            Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, in explanation of my vote, I do not think this fee and
              salary bill will bring about as much reform in the reduction of fees and salaries as
              is desired by a large majority of the people of Clay county; but, sir, believing this
              bill to be some reform from our present law, and seeing no prospect of getting any
              better bill at this late day in the session; therefore, upon this consideration, I
              vote for the bill.
            Mr. WARRUM. Mr. Speaker: I regard this as one of the most important measures that
              will receive the attention of the present General Assembly. It is proposed to abolish
              the present iniquitious system of compensating certain county officers by means of
              fees, perequisites and allowances, and to substitute in lieu thereof specific
              salaries. And I confess to you in the outset, after giving the subject a careful
              examination, that I am astonished that such a monstrous outrage as our present fee
              system should so long have seen permitted to disgrace our statute books. The laws
              proposed to be abolished license at least two persons in each county in the State, to
              rob every widow, orphan and unfortunate caught in the meshes of the law within their
              jurisdiction, and by means thereof to amass, in many instances, large fortuned. Do I
              state the  case too strongly? Who has not heard
              the cries of the widow and orphan, as they have witnessed the little pittance, left
              them by a deceased husband and father, frittered away dollar by dollar, in the way of
              costs and expenses ? Who has not witnessed ruin and desolation carried into the
              families of the unfortunate by hungry officials in the pursuit of costs, costs so
              called which is but another name for robbery. This, sir, is the ruin of thousands
              annually in our State; the honest creditor must stand back until costs are paid.
            Again, I repeat, do I state the case too strongly? Does not every member know, Mr.
              Speaker, that the pittance left each widow and orphan in the State, is subjected to a
              forced contribution, for the enriching and aggrandizing of the two officers referred
              to. Is not the property of the unfortunates brought into our courts of justice,
              subjected to a like contribution for the same purpose?
            The people of a great State licensing a specified number of persons in each county to
              depredate on their neighbors! It is simply monstrous. It is a relic of that system of
              robbery known in ths past as feudalism. Nay, more--it is barbarism. The great State of
              Indiana places the unfortunate of each county at the mercy of two officers and their
              subordinates. Can such injustice be defended? If so, upon what principle? I have heard
              it urged in favor of the present system that without the inducement it affords,
              officers will not discharge their duties. That is simply an assertion without a single
              well-authenticated fact to sustain it. Do not the employes of merchants, bankers,
              manufacturers, and farmers, who work on specific salaries many of them performing much
              more arduous duties than any county officers, perform their duties satisfactory. But
              the position referred to is too purile to need refutation. Men will not discharge
              their duty in public offices, say the advocates of the present system, for fair
              wages.
            You must pay them a bonus in excess of reasonable wages; you must allow them to
              depredate on the widows and orphans--the unfortunates. I will not believe humanity is
              so degraded. If so, let the unfortunates prepare to suffer yet longer. Mr. Speaker, I
              wish only to add in conclusion that justice ind honesty demands the proposed change.
              The unfortunates have been robbed long enough. Their cries come up to us and to that
              higher tribunal demanding redress. We shall have failed most grievously in our duty if
              we fail to grant it. I shall vote to change the whole system.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. I shall vote against this bill for the reasons that we have had no
              opportunity of considering its merits or demerits, involving, as it does,
              extraordinary changes in our present system without lesening the burdens of the
              people. I had hoped this House would have consented to have had this bill printed,
              thereby enabling us to act understandingly. It has seen proper to act otherwise, thus
              cutting off all opportunity to perfect the measure, and regarding the bill, in at
              least one section, as clearly unconstitutional, therefore, I vote no.
            Mr. WILSON, in explanation of his vote, said: I vote "no" on this bill for the
              following among other reasons:
            No equality can exist under a salary bill because, 1st, the services rendered are not
              equal; and 2d, the responsibilities of the officers are not equal.
            The duties of the larger county offices are more ardurous, and demand a superior
              talent to execute them than those in the smaller counties, and under this bill the
              inequality of compensation is flagrant and unjust.
            Th law also makes the clerk the custodian of all moneys paid into Court or his
              office. He is held responsible for its safe keeping and proper disbursement. For all
              this he does not receive one penny. He is responsible for every penny deposited. He is
              responsible for the honesty of his deputies, and for all these responsibilities, under
              this bill, he receives a miserable pittance by the way of a small salary, not enough
              to pay an efficient accountant in a first class business house.
            There is no discrimination between the counties--the clerk of the smallest county
              receives as much as the largest county. The clerk of my county, under this bill, can
              not get more than $8,000. Out of this he must pay nine deputies. What then will be
              left for him? The basis upon which deputy hire is given under this bill, is an
              erroneous basis--it is that of population. This is wrong because the business of these
              officers are not effected by population. Counties less populous than others have twice
              the amount of business, yet all alike are subjected, under this bill, to receive no
              more for additional labor.
            It is claimed by the advocates of this bill that a good deputy can be had for half
              the salaries that are dow received. This I deny. Good deputies can not be had for less
              than $890 and $1,000. Adopt this bill, and inferior and incompetent deputies will be
              appointed. The consequence will be that the best interests of the people who have
              business in the Courts, will be defeated.
            Another defect of this bill is in its requirement of fee bills to be issued on all
              fees remaining six months unpaid. This labor would require one competent deputy
              constantly employed.
            Many other defects might be pointed out; but I have shown sufficient to present the
              inequality, injustice and hardships of this bill. I doubt the constitutionality of the
              bill. It pays in some counties for services not rendered, in others it does not pay
              for services rendered. A clause in our Constitution provides that no officer can be
              compelled to do service without compensation; with purity of reasoning, no officer can
              be paid for that which he does not do.
            Mr. WYMER. Mr. Speaker in explanitory of my vote--I oppose this bill because I think,
              sir, it will oppress the county officers in the smaller counties of the State, while
              in the average counties it gives too great a 
              salary, and is not graded according to the services rendered, but according to
              population; and secondly, it works a hardship in many cases to litigants in increasing
              the fees; and while I am in favor of reform, I am opposed to any measure being pushed
              through on the "previous question," without giving those opposed any chance for
              amendment, as this bill has been. I vote "no."
            So the bill passed the House of Representatives.
            On motion of Mr. BROWNING, his motion to reconsider his vote was laid on the
              table.
            The House then took a recess till 3 o'clock P. M.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The House met again at 3 o'clock P. M.--Mr. McDonald in the chair.
            
              PRESIDENTIAL GIFTSBRIBERY.
              The SPEAKER pro tem, announced, the special order for this hour, viz: the
                consideration of Mr. Speaker Mack's joint resolution in relation to Presidents and
                Presidential candidates receiving gifts.
              Mr. Speaker MACK moved the adoption of the resolutions, and said: When his
                honorable colleague (Mr. Donham) and himself became candidates for seats on this
                floor, they premised their constituents (if elected) that they would support such a
                proposition as that embraced in these joint resolutions, and, therefore, at his
                colleague's request with the permission of the House he would present the reasons
                they had to offer for their adoption. He then proceeded at length to set forth the
                infamy that has attached to bribery and official corruption in all ages by reference
                to ancient and modern history, and to urge the propriety of some such public
                condemnatory act against such high crimes and misdemeanors in this country, as
                indicated in his resolutions. [The speech, it is expected, will be revised and
                printed hereafter.]
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, proposed to amend the resolution by inserting in the proper
                place a clause against bribes to secure nominations esteeming it necessary to
                perfect the proposition.
              The amendment was accepted.
              Mr. SIMPSON demanded the yeas and nays, which, being ordered and taken,
                resulted--yeas 88, nays 2--Messrs. Butterworth and Wilson.
              Mr. BUTTERWORTH explained. He regarded the proposition as mere humbug.
              Mr. WILSON explaining: I never took a bribe nor offered one. Upon reflection I will
                not say what I was going to on these resolutions; but I think, if a man sees proper
                to give a present, no body or power has a right to impugn the motives of the giver
                or receiver. I do not propose to put myself on the record in favor of any such
                senseless matter as contained in these resolutions. No man has the right to deny me
                the privilege of doing as I please upon accepting or rejecting any present, nor
                shall he attribut to me impure motives for my act, to render me odious to the laws
                and ineligible to the position of an honorable member of society.
              So the joint resolutions were adopted.
              Mr. Barnaby's bill [H. R. 163] was made the special order for to-morrow at 10
                o'clock.
            
            
              REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
              Mr. TEBBS, from the Committee on Claims, returned Mr. Taylor's
                resolution in relation to the contest of Walter vs. Taylor, recommending that per
                diem and mileage be not allowed, which was concurred in.
            
            
              WM. L. HARTLEY.
              Mr. ZENOR returned the claim of Wm.L. Hartley for $105 for a horse and equipments
                furnished to Col. Graham by order of General Hughes in the time of the Morgan raid,
                without accommendation.
              Mr. BROWNING explained that the Committee were unwilling to take the responsibility
                of a recommendation on this class of claims.
              Mr. ZENOR, Mr. McFARLAND, and others, thought the claim just, but it was not proper
                to discrimiaate when there is a class.
              Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, and Mr. COX and others denounced it.
              Mr. TEBBS called for the reading of Hartley's memorial, which was had. The claim
                was rejected--yeas, 12; nays, 76.
              Mr. GORDON, of Boone, returned the claim of the Adjutant General for $1,200 for
                extra services making out military claims, and reported that $500 be allowed.
              Mr. BROWNING considered it a remarkable allowance, explaining the nature of the
                service, and that the Senate Committee had reported the same amount.
              The report was concurred in.
              Mr. TEBBS reported on the claims of Hon. Samuel Beatty--"Not a red."
              Mr. HARTLEY returned the claim of William Burrows for $12 50, recommending its
                allowance.
              Mr. STONE supported the report, and it was concurred in.
              Mr. MAJOR, from the Committee on County and Township Businesss,
                returned Mr. Rawles' assessment act amendment bill [H. R. 232] for the appraisement
                of personal property below the cash value, recommending that it be laid on the
                table.
              Mr. BIGGS requested that it be passed over in the absence of the author of the
                bill.
              Mr. CUNNINGHAM moved that the bill be laid on the table.
              Mr. MYERS. It would be courteous to pass over the report; and it was so ordered by
                consent.
              Mr. ZENOR returned Mr. Montgomery's Recorders' lien bill [H. R. 299], recommending
                that it be laid on the table; which was concurred in.
              Mr. BRITTON returned Mr. Snodgrass' School House bill [H. R. 280], with
                amendments.
              Mr. SNODGRASS explained that this bill is to take from the trustees the power to
                vacate school houses and make new ones without the acquiescence of a majority of the
                patrons of the district. As to the Committee amendment, which provides that in case
                there are not 20 pupils in the district the 
                trustees may still vacate, &c., without consulting the majority, he was willing
                to accept that.
              After debate on the propriety of the proposition by Messrs. McDonald--that the
                provisions of the law are already ample; and further discussion by Messrs. Stone,
                Britton, Netherton and White--the latter indicating an amendment.
              The SPEAKER stated his ruling that such reports go to the files; but now would hear
                the gentleman.
              Mr. ZENOR moved that the bill be referred to the Committee on
                  Education.
              Mr. ST. JOHN stated the law as to the the powers of school trustees in this
                respect, and insisted that it needed no reference. It was a good bill and the House
                was prepared to act on it.
              Mr. NETHERTON took a similar view, fearing that it would remain too long with the
                Committee.
              Mr. Biggs and Mr. Kennedy favored the bill.
              Mr. CUNHINGHAM urged the importance of schools and of thoroughness in education,
                and the wisdom of arbitrary direction in the matter of common schools.
              The bill and proposed amendment were referred to the Committee on Education.
              Mr. CAUTHORN (by unanimous consent) submitted an order to print 8,000 copies of the
                Senate enrolled bill No. 4, (the salary bill) and authorizing the Secretary of State
                to distribute them to the several officers of the State.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, objected-seeing no reason why the officers of the State
                should have copies of that bill, before one-half of the members of the House know
                its contents. But he did not press the objection.
              Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, moved to make the number 5,000.
              Mr. CAUTHORN accepted.
              Mr. WILSON moved, ineffectually, to lay it on the table.
              The resolution was adopted.
              And then, at 5:30 o'clock, the House adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            FRIDAY, February 17, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock, A. M.
          No one appearing to offer prayer,
          The journal of yesterday was read, pending which--
          Mr. HENDERSON moved to dispense with its further reading.
          Messrs. HOOPER and MARTINDALE demanded the yeas and nays. They were ordered and were
            being taken, when--
          Mr. HENDERSON, stating that it would probably take as long to call the yeas and mays as
            to read the journal, asked and obtained consent to withdraw his motion.
          
            LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
            Mr. Alsop was granted a leave of absence until Tuesday, and Mr. Hamilton
              indefinitely.
          
          
            LEVEES AND DRAINS.
            On motion of Mr. BRADLEY, the bill [S. 48] supplemental to the Drainage act of May
              22, 1869, was taken up on the last reading.
            Mr. DWIGGINS stated that it was agreed between the friends and enemies of this bill
              that the bill H. R. 23 repealing this act shall also be read.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Is there any objection on the part of the Senate.
            VOICES. "Consent," "consent."
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. All right.
             Mr. DWIGGINS asked unanimous consent to add a section to his bill S. 48, providing
              that all corporations heretofore or hereafter to be organized under the provisions of
              this act, and the act to which this is supplemental shall, by its Board of Directors
              cause all work to be done by contract, and such contract shall be let by said Board of
              Directors to the lowest responsible bidder after advertising for sealed proporals one
              week in a newspaper published in the county through which that work shall pass.
            Mr. GREEN objected. If refers only to this supplemental act he would have no
              objection.
            Mr. DWIGGINS to obviate the objection modified his amendment so that it shall not
              apply to companies whose proposed work in less than 20 miles in length.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Is that satisfactory?
            Mr. GREEN. "Yes, sir."
            VOICES--"Consent."
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. This amendment is adopted then by general consent.
            So the bill passed by yeas 46, nays 0.
            On motion by Mr. DWIGGINS the bill [H. R. 23] repealing the drainage law of 1869 was
              read the second time, and ordered engrossed for the third reading.
          
          
            THE SINKING FUND DISTRIBUTION.
            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to suspend the order of business that the bill [H. R. 256],
              relation to the distribution of the sinking fund.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 31, nays 14, and the bill [H. R. 256], to amend the
              act providing for the custody of the sinking fund, was read the first time.
            Mr. WILLIAMS moved for a dispensation of the constitutional restriction, that the
              bill may be read twice and put upon its passage now.
            The motion was rejected by yeas 30, nays 12.
          
          
            THE BURSON CASE.
            Mr. BROWN called for the order of business pending at the time of the adjournment
              yesterday.
            Mr. WILLIAMS, stating that there was an imperative resolution adopted last night
              appointing a Committee, and I as one of the number, ask leave to report from a portion
              of that Committee.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. That is right and proper.
            The report of the Committee referred to by Mr. Williams was then read as follows:
            MR. PRESIDENT: The special committee, to whom
              was assigned the duty of selecting such testimony as should be read to the Senate in
              the protest of Kline and others against the right of John W. Burson to hold a seat in
              the Senate, from the counties of Delaware and Madison, report that they are unable to
              come to any agreement, and the  undersigned
              members of said committee, believing that a fair and full abstract of the evidence is
              contained in the majority and minority reports of the committee taking the testimony,
              therefore, the undersigned would most respectfully recommed that the Senate do now
              proceed to act upon the case as reported by the majority and minority of the
                Special Committee on Election, to whom the Burson case was
              referred.
            J. D. WILLIAMS, E. HENDERSON, JAMES BRADLEY.
            Mr. SCOTT, from the same Committee, submitted thee following report:
            Mr.PRESIDNT--The undersigned, members of the Committee appointed to select evidence
              to be read in the Senate in the hearing of the allegations of the memorialists Kline
              and others, against John W. Burson, have had that matter under advisement and have
              been unable to agree with the other members of said Committee on the subject so
              referred, they, therefore recommend that all the evidence taken by the Committee be
              read on said hearing.
            H. D. SCOTT, >A. ANDREWS, JOHN GREEN.
            Mr. HENDERSON moved that the report of the Senator from Vigo (Mr. Scott) be laid on
              the table.
            The motion was agreed to--yeas 24, nays 21--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown,
                    Bird, Carnahan, Cave, Denbo. Dittemore, Dougherty, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner,
                    Gregg, Henderson, Johnson, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan, Rosebrugh, Stroud, and
                    Williams--24.
                  NAYS--Messrs Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Caven, Collett,
                    Dwiggins, Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard, Martindale,
                    Miller, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--22.
                
              
            
            Mr. HENDERSON moved to concur in the recommendations contained in the report
              submitted by Mr. Williams.
            The motion was agreed to yeas 24, nays 31.
            Mr. BEESON moved ineffectually--yeas 20, nays 22 to adjourn.
            Mr. HENDERSON demanded the previous question on the adoption of the minority report
              of the Committee on Elections.
            The yeas and nays were demanded and ordered, pending the taking of which--
            Motions were made to adjourn, for a call of the Senate, on an appeal from the
              decision of the chair, and on motions to excuse members from voting, etc., etc.
            These several questions were discussed, and explanations of votes were made; the
              Senate remaining in centinuous session from from the time of assembling at 10 o'clock
              this morning till the late hour of this writing to-night.
          
        

        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            FRIDAY, February 17, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M. The order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. Bennett, of the
            Congregational Church of the city.
          On motion of Mr. WASHBURN, the order of reading the journal was dispensed with.
          The SPEAKER announced the order of--
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. MINICH, from the Committee on Benevolent and Scientific
                Institutions, re-returned Mr. Heilman's bill [H. R. 305] in relation to
              orphan asylums and the children entrusted to their care, recommending its passage.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, (by unanimous consent) submitted a resolution that the
                Committee on Ways and Means report by 2 o'clock to-day the
              Appropriation bill for the Benevolent and Scientific Institutions.
            Mr. McDONALD moved that it be laid on the table; which was agreed to--yeas 41, nays
              35.
            Mr. NEFF rose to a question of privilege. The Committee on Ways and
                Means had a full meeting last night, with the exception of Mr. Defrees,
              absent. He stated that the General Appropriation bill was nearly ready, but it was
              thought best,if not impracticable, to present it this week. As to the appropriations
              for the Benevolent and Scientific Institutions, Mr. Defrees has requested that that
              matter be kept back a little.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY and Mr. GORDON of Boone made the point that the Committee can not report
              progress unless called on.
            Mr. NEFF would accommodate the gentlemen. He stated that, while it would certainly be
              the pleasure of the Committee to accommodate the House, yet it is impossible for us to
              make the report indicated this evening.
            Mr. DEVOL, from the Committee on Benevolent and Scientific
                Institutions, reported as to sundry memorials for a prison and reformatory
              supervision by a board "to contain at least three women" as impracticable at present;
              and he also reported a bill [H. R. 34], for act to amend section 13 of the act of
              March 11, 1867, to establish a home for disabled soldiers and seamen, &c., and
              amending section 2 of the supplemental act of May 4, 1869.
            The report was concurred in--
            Mr. MINNICH stating that while the Committee have uniformly reported that these
              numerous memorials be laid on the table; there was one matter bearing on his mind, and
              that is. That we lack medical aid at the Asylum for the Insane. There should be an
              assistant. Would it not be best to employ a third assistant, and recommend that they
              employ a female physician, I believe it would be best myself; and it would, in part,
              answer the prayer of these petitioners.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
              Wilson's city railroad aid bill [H. R. 182] recommending that it be laid on the table
              the present law, in the opinion of the committee being sufficient; which was concurred
              in.
            Mr. FURNAS, from the Committee on Agriculture, reported on the
              resolution with reference to the taxation of dogs, recommending its indefinite
              postponement; which was concurred in.

            

            He also returned Mr. Taylor's dog killing bill [H. R. 322] with amendments. Section
              1: "Sheep or other animal, attacking persons, or being from home unless accompanied by
              owner." Section 2: "Such trustee shall give a receipt for the same."
            Mr. TAYLOR, from the Committee on Corporations, returned his bill
              [H. R. 326] to authorize companies or individuals to hold land for building purposes,
              recommending its passage.
            Mr. BIGGS, from the Committee on Corporations, returned Mr.
              Ruddell's bill [H. R. 292] to provide for the sale of corporation stock for the
              non-payment of taxes, recommending its passage.
            Mr. NEFF, returned Mr. Harding's bill [H. R. 326] to exempt from sale on execution
              fire company engines, buckets, hooks and ladders, recommending its passage.
          
          
            OLD INTERNAL IMPROVEMENT BONDS.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM, from the Committee on Lands and Internal
                Improvements, returned the Senate's concurrent resolution on the subject
              of the old internal improvement bonds, the paymant of those unsurrendered, etc.,
              recommending that the House do not concur therein.
            Mr. McDONALD moved that the matter of the report be made the special order for
              Wednesday at 10 o'clock.
            Mr. DAVIDSON stated that the committee would, at an early day, report on Mr. Cox's
              resolution as to this matter, recommending an amendment, adding these words: "Until
              the duty of the State in the premises more clearly appears than at present."
            On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS, the subject was made the special order for Tuesday at 10
              o'clock.
          
          
            EVANSVILLE WATER WORKS.
            Mr. RICE, from a majority of the Committee on Cities and Towns,
              returned the Evansville charter amendment bill [S. 34] recommending its passage--the
              report was signed by four members.
            Mr. RUDDELL, on the part of a majority of said committee, returned Mr. Heilman's
              Evansville charter bill [H. R. 207] recommending its passage--signed also by four
              members of the committee.
            Mr. RICE submitted a minority report recommending that the same bill [H. R. 207] be
              laid on the table.
            Mr. RUDDELL moved that the subject be made the special order for Friday of next
              week.
            Mr. McDONALD moved to lay the motion on the table, which was agreed to by yeas 45,
              nays 43.
            Mr. McDONALD moved concurrence on the Senate bill No. 34, which was ruled out of
              order; also his motion to lay the whole subject on the table.
            Mr. RUDDELL submitted a minority report from the same committee, recommending that
              the bill ]S. 34] be laid on the table, signed by Messrs. Ruddell, White and
              Stephenson.
            Mr. HIELMAN moved to make the subject the special order for Wednesday.
            Mr. RICE moved to lay the motion on the table, which was agreed to--yeas, 44; nays,
              forty-two.
            Mr. CAUTHORN demanded the previous question on concurrence in the minority report as
              to the bill [S. 34.]
            Mr. RUDDELL demanded that the bill be read for information.
            The SPEAKER refused to entertain the demand, and Mr. Ruddell appealed in writing from
              the decision of the chair; but mistaking the point, decided there was no action had
              upon the appeal.
            The House refused to concur in the minority report by yeas, 41; nays, 47--the Speaker
              stating that the other reports of the committee would be received, and the matter take
              its place on the files of the Clerk.
            On motion of Mr. ST. JOHN, it was ordered that the gravel road bill be made the
              special order for Thursday 10 o'clock.
            Messrs. Dunham, Mitchell, St. John, Kirkpatrick and Hill, obtained leave of absence
              till Monday.
          
          
            INSURANCE.
            The SPEAKER announced the special order for the hour, to-wit: the consideration of
              Mr. Barnaby's Insurance bill, [H. R. 163,]--the question being on ordering the bill to
              the engrossment.
             Mr. ST. JOHN said that by section 41 of this bill, mutual fire insurance companies
              are not required to make deposit for the security of the policy holders. The want of
              this security, on the part of mutual fire insurance companies, had been sadly felt in
              the experience of the people of the State. He asked for no discriminations as between
              insurance companies doing business without and within the State. Should we be left to
              the moral aspect of the question, for this security on the part of these mutual
              companies ? Like all other corporations, he might adopt the saying that they have
              neither souls or bodies for punishment. There was no security in this bill, except in
              regard to life insurance companies. He would vote for a bill to sweep all mutual fire
              insurance companies from the State. The principle was a failure. He stated other
              objections to the bill as that provision by which the premium notes may be sued for
              the whole amount upon failure to pay a particular assessment, He was not asking that
              these corporations be trodden down, but for such securities as to this matter as the
              people want. He proposed to amend the bill in section 3, striking out all after the
              word "lives" in the tenth line. Amend in section 4 by striking out after the word
              "each," in the third line, and inserting "nor shall any company be allowed" to
              transact business as a mutual insurance company until a guaranteed capital of not less
              than $100,000 in securities, as provided in section 5 of this act, shall have been
              paid in and deposited with the Treasurer of State." Strike out section 11.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter. What does the gentleman mean by guaranteed capital?

            

            Mr. ST. JOHN. It means such as has been passed upon by the Commissioners.
             Mr. WILSON admitted the pertinence and was willing to accept the amendments.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. This bill provides that these companies shall be incorporated
              with less capital than $100,000. Then comes in the amendment that they shall place at
              the disposal of the commissioners not less than $100,000. He did not know that it was
              the intention to make this apply to foreign companies only, or to those of this State
              as well. But under the provisions of the act it was clear that no foreign company
              could do business here without this deposit. He asked the gentleman from Grant (Mr.
              St. John) whether the intention was to force all foreign companies to make this
              deposit of $100,000.
            Mr. ST. JOHN. Yes; and I have on my desk a sworn certificate from the office of
              Auditor of State that their are mutual companies doing business here with a capital of
              $12,000.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter. It seemed to him that in this section 25 there should be an
              amendment so as to make it sufficient to require of the President, Secretary or
              Treasurer of a foreign Company to file an affidavit here that they have deposited in
              the State where their charter is granted a sum equal to $100,000, before they can do
              business here. There were a great many men Companies doing business in this State
              which are entirely safe, having a capital of four or five hundred thousand
              dollars--and he instanced the Merchants Insurance Company of Chicago. It would readily
              suggest itself to members that this prohibitory clause might exclude such sound
              Companies from doing business in the State, or at least it would increase their
              charges for premiums in this State. He desired to avoid this increase of the rates of
              Insurance.
            Mr. WILSON. This is a bill to incorporate companies.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. It would be apparent to gentlemen that all companies have to
              make these deposits for security in the several States where they are doing business;
              and this amounts to an immense sum. The Merchants' Insurance Company of Chicago is as
              good as any in the country, having a capital of $500,000, yet it it might be
              inconvenient and impossible for that company to make this deposit.
            Mr. ST. JOHN suggested that this provision applies to mutual companies simply.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. I would submit whether it would not be better policy to
              insert a provision to the effect that no company shall do business in this State that
              has not a cash capital of $100,000 already paid up. I will offer that at the proper
              time as an amendment to section 25.
            Mr. RUDDELL proposed to amend section 24 by striking out "$2" and inserting "$1.50;"
              and striking out the word "net" and inserting "gross" in lieu.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF, the further consideration of the subject was postponed--to be
              considered as in Committee of the Whole at 2 o'clock P. M.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, submitted a resolution that the Clerk of the House be
              directed to cause to be printed a sufficient number of copies daily of the calandar of
              business of the House, and placed on the desks of members each morning of the
              session.
            On motion of Mr. WILSON, the resolution was amended so as to admit of the printing of
              the calendar simply without the daily succession; and so the resolution was
              adopted.
            Mr. MAJOR submitted a preamble and resolution for the discharge of the Clerk of the
                Committee on Fees and Salaries.
            Mr. NEFF asked and obtained unanimous consent to introduce a bill [H. R. 342] for an
              act to repeal all laws now in force authorizing the levy and collection of any tax for
              the State debt sinking fund purposes; also--
            A bill [H. R. 343] for an act to raise revenue for State purposes for the years 1871
              and 1872, and for subsequent years.
            Mr. NEFF. These bills have been before the Committee on Ways and
                Means, and I hold in my hand a statement of figures showing the basis upon
              which they have been calculated and drawn up, and I will ask the reporter to take it
              for the morning papers so that gentlemen can see for themselves all about it. The
              paper presented is as follows.
          
          
            
              CONDITION OF STATE TREASURY.
              
                Cash on hand Nov. 1, 1871................
                $ 364,000
              
              
                From the revenue of 1870.................
                1,000,000
              
              
                From 10 cents sinking fund, 1870.........
                700,000
              
              
                Making...................................
                $2,064,000
              
            
            
              AUDITOR'S ESTIMATE.
              
                Ordinary expenses, 1871..................
                $780,000
              
              
                Ordinary expenses, 1872..................
                610,000--
                1,390,000
              
              
                Leaving..................................
                $ 674,000
              
              
                A tax for the year 1871, at 5 cts. on the $100, will make............
                $331,000
              
              
                Poll tax at 50 cts per poll..............
                125,000
              
              
                Making...................................
                $455,000
              
              
                Deduct for delinquents...................
                76,000
              
              
                Leaving..................................
                $379,000
              
              
                Add delinquent tax collected.............
                81,000
              
              
                
                450, 000
              
              
                Same tax for 1872 will be................
                $379,000
              
              
                Delinquents collected....................
                41,000
              
              
                
                420, 900
              
              
                On the 1st of November, 1872, there will be in the Treasury a surplus
                  of................
                $1,544,000
              
            
            Less appropriations for the benevolent institutions and for education.
            This reduces the State tax 10 cents on the$100, and repeals the sinking fund tax of
              10cents, making the tax for 1871 and 1872 20 cents less than heretofore.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            Mr. TAYLOR. (by unanimous consent) introduced a bill [H. R. 244] for an act
              supplemental to the act in relation to the fees and salaries of county officers, and
              to remedy some of the defects in that law. (County officers' salary shall be paid
              quarterly out of the county treasury, and said salaries shall take effect on the first
              day of June, 1871, and not before.)
            Mr. T. said he had improved every mo  ment to
              ascertain for himself the contents of that salary bill--had given attention to its
              readings in the House and the debate thereon and it was his opinion that the only fund
              provided for that bill for the pay of county officers, is to be raised from the fees
              of the Clerks and the Sheriffs. We ought not to be so foolish as to go home until we
              do actually know what we have done; and if there are defects in the bill we ought to
              apply the remedy. He moved that this bill be referred to a Special Committee of three
              with instructions to examine it and report whether any further legislation is
              necessary to carry out the provisions of the bill we have passed.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, had examined that bill himself. We all know that the fees are
              ample for all these officers, and if the bill does provide that the county officers
              shall be paid out of them he was in favor of it. It is the best bill that has passed
              the House this session, and I shall oppose the motion to refer again that question or
              any other connected with it.
            Mr. STEPEENSON proposed to amend the instructions by requiring the Committee to
              report an amendment, or to report on the propriety of taking away the per cent. of the
              County Auditor for his charge of the school fund. He said, under our present law, that
              officer will get in addition to his salary from $800, to $1,200 for the disbursement
              of that fund. He get four per cent. My proposition is that we deprive him of that.
            Mr. McDONALD was in favor of the motion of the gentleman from Allen, (Mr.
              Taylor.)
            Mr. KENNEDY reminded the House that he desired to get that bill printed, but
              gentlemen said: Let us pass it--it is going to be a feather in our caps. And now on
              the very next day they are coming down to ask for a remedy against their action.
            Mr. STEPHENSON'S amendment was adopted, and the question recurred on the original
              motion.
            Mr. HOLLAND moved, ineffectually, to increase the number of the special committee to
              eleven--one from each Congressional District.
            Mr. Taylor's motion was then agreed to without a division; and the Speaker appointed
              said committee, to-wit: Messrs. Taylor, McDonald and Cauthorn.
            Messrs. Heilman, Ray, and Wymer, obtained leaves of absence.
            On motion of Mr. CAUTHORN, the rules being dispensed for the purpose, the bill (S.
              34) for amendment of the Evansville charter was taken up and amended in section 2 by
              adding: "Provided, however, that said Common Council shall not appoint any such
              trustee who is a member of the City Council, to serve during the term he may be
              appointed to serve as such trustee."
            The House then took a recess till two o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Speaker resumed at two o'clock P. M., and called Mr. McDonald to the chair.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, demanded a call of the House, which discovered a quorum.
            
              INSURANCE.
              The House then--as in Committee of the Whole--Mr. McDONALD in the chair, took up
                Mr. Bradley's insurance bill, [H. R. 163] entitled a bill to regulate Insurance
                Companies, and it was read and considered by sections.
              Sections 1, 2, 3, having been read--
              Mr. WILSON moved Mr. St. John's amendment, striking out all after the word
                "subscribed," which was adopted by consent.
              Section 4 being read--
              Mr. ST. JOHN'S amendment was moved, as heretofore reported, this morning.
              Mr. MACK said there was but one Mutual Company in the State, which was a good one,
                and he did not want that affected by this amendment.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, moved to restrict the amendment by inserting the word
                "fire" before "insurance." It was so intended he said by Mr. St. John.
              Mr. BROWNING said there was the same provision in the bill as that proposed by the
                amendment.
              Mr. MACK thought the amendment is right and complete without the amendment of the
                gentleman from Porter.
              Mr. CALKINS caused his other amendment to be read for information.
              Mr. CALKINS' amendment was rejected.
              Mr. WASH BURN proposed to amend by adding a clause requiring the deposits to be in
                United States bonds, or Indiana real estate worth 50 per cent, more than the amount
                of deposit, etc., which was rejected.
              Mr. ST. JOHN'S amendment was adopted.
              Section 5 being read--
              Mr. COPNER moved to strike out "bonds of the United States," which was
                rejected.
              Mr. RHODES proposed an amendment to increase the per cent. additional to 25, which
                was rejected.
              Section 5 was then adopted without amendment.
              Sections 6, 7, 8, 9,10, 11, being read--
              Section 11 was stricken out by the amendment offered by Mr. St. John.
              Section 12 being read--
              Mr. CALKINS of Porter, said Section 5, which admits of worthless securities having
                been passed over, and this 12th Section admits of watering their stock, and we have
                not time to submit the amendments. So the Section 12 was passed over.
              Section 13, 14 being read--
              Mr. WILSON submitted a substitute for Section 14--copied from the Massachusetts
                law--which was adopted. It is as follows:
              SEC. 4, It shall be lawful for any married woman. by herself, and in her name, or
                in the name of any third person, with his assent, as her trustee, to cause to be
                insured for her sole use the life of her husband for any definite period, or for the
                term of his natural life; and in case of surviving such period or term, the sum or
                net amount of the insurance becoming due and payable by the terms of the insurance,
                shall be payable to her, to and for her own use, free from the  claims of the representatives of the husband, or of any
                of his creditors, or any party or parties claiming by, through, or under him. But
                when the premium paid in any year out of the property or funds of the husband shall
                exceed $500, such exemption from such claims shall not apply to so much of said
                premium so paid as shall be in excess of $500, but such excess with the interest of
                the insurance may be made payable, in case of the death of the wife before the
                decease of the husband, to the husband, or to his heirs, her, or their children,
                further use, as shall be provided in the policy of insurance, and to their guardian,
                if under age. All policies of life insurance issued in this State prior to the
                passage of this act shall have the same force and effect as if issued under this
                act.
              Section 15 being read--
              Mr. WILSON offered a substitute, to the effect that no policy shall be forfeited
                for non-payments after two full premiums shall have been paid, and providing for
                ascertaining the value of said policies. He said it was to protect the policy holder
                as well as the company.
              Mr. MACK was opposed to the substitute. This section is the Massachusetts law. It
                protects the policy holder and his representatives, if he has been dead twenty
                years.
              The substitute was rejected.
              Mr. BIGGS moved, ineffectually, to strike out the word "hereafter," so as to make
                the section apply to the present.
              Mr. CALKINS of Porter, proposed to strike out "90 days" and insert in lieu these
                words: "within reasonable time;" so the section would agree with the decision of the
                Supreme Court.
              Mr. BIGGS moved to make the time "180 days," which was agreed to; so section 15 was
                adopted.
              Sections 16, 17,18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 being read-
              Mr. CALKINS of Porter moved to amend section 22 by striking out "30" and instert
                "20." This tax, he said, comes out of the policy holder; which was rejected.
              Sections 23 and 24 being read--
              Mr. RUDDELL proposed to amend so as to make the companies pay "$150" instead of
                "$2" on the "gross," instead of the "net" premiums.
              Mr. WILSON gave his view, calling attention to the difference of tax imposed on
                foreign companies in various States--to show the wisdom of making it as low as the
                minimum.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, proposed "$1" one per cent on the gross premiums.
              Mr. KNIGHT thought the amendment would not secure so much as the provision in the
                original section.
              Mr. WILSON said about $7,000,000 go out of the State annually to these
                companies.
              Mr. Calkin's amendment was rejected, and Mr. Ruddell's adopted.
              Mr. STRICKLAND proposed to insert these words: "And for all amounts paid out for
                losses and expenses," after the word "received," in line eight, as to the statements
                to be made to the commissioner.
              It was adopted.
              Sections 25, 26, 27 being read--
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, moved to amend in line 9 by striking out the word "such,"
                and inserting these words: "at all time," shall have access, &c., and after
                "shall," in line 20, insert "be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof
                shall," which was taken by consent.
              Section 28, 29, 30, being read--
              Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, proposed to amend section 30 by striking out all after the
                word "January," in line 7: (Auditor's fee $5.)
              Mr. RHODES moved ineffectually to make the fee one dollar.
              Mr. CONNER said this $5 fee would give the Auditor a perquisite, of $5,000 a
                year.
              Mr. CAUTHORN. This certificate could be executed in five minutes. It should be
                reduced as to the fee.
              Mr. STEPHENSON proposed to add: "All fees, taxes and perquisites collected under
                this act by the Auditor of State shall be put into the revenue fund of the State,
                after deducting $1,000 for the Auditor, and the Auditor shall report the amount and
                the disposition of it."
              Mr. RHODES. This was worth no more than it might be for a clerk to fill out a
                subpoena. He was just as much opposed to putting such an unjust fee into the
                treasury as into the hands of an individual. It was too much.
              Mr. CALKINS was in favor of a fair and just compensation for these services. He
                would make it $2 50.
              Mr. STEPHENSON spoke to his amendment, and against discriminating in this bill in
                favor of the Auditor of State, against the principle of the salary bill passed
                yesterday. This was needful to complete the bill.
              Mr. WILSON spoke against the provision the $5 fee in the section.
              Mr. RUDDELL was for the amendment. He would strike out the fee certainly, or if it
                must be larger so as to make anything, let it go into the State Treasury.
              Mr. BIGGS. What right have we to tax more than the service is worth--more than the
                expense of making the papers?
              Mr. BARNABY. Under the old law it has been $4 for these certificates. He was
                willing to fix it at one dollar, as proposed by Mr. Rhodes. On motion of Mr. B. the
                vote rejecting Mr. Rhodes' amendment, inserting "one dollar" instead of "five," was
                reconsidered; and then it was adopted.
              Mr. STEPHENSON then withdrew his substitute amendment.
              Mr. STEPHENSON moved to insert "special" in section 30; which was adopted.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, proposed to amend, in section 12, by striking out all after
                the word "shall" to "required," in the second line; and insert: "No increase of
                capital stock shall be allowed, unless by the consent of three-fourths of all the
                stockholders."
              Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam. A man should  vote in
                corporations according to the stock he holds--on the question of increase of
                capital.
              Mr. RHODES and Mr. GORDON of Boone, took a similar view.
              Mr. RUDDELL could see in this no provision for watering stocks; and then the
                amendment of Mr. Calkins was rejected.
              Mr. BROWNING moved to make the fee in the thirtieth section $5one-half to go to the
                Common School fund, and one-half to the Auditor of State.
              The CHAIRMAN. One dollar has been fixed as the fee.
              Mr. BROWNING'S amendment was rejected.
              Section 31 being passed--
              On motion of Mr. CAUTHORN the vote adopting section 22 was reconsidered, and it was
                amended by addidg: "and the above fees shall be paid into the treasury to the credit
                of the Insurance fund."
              Sections 32 and 33 being read-
              On motion of Mr. CAUTHORN, the fee "$25" was made "$10" for a copy of record.
              Sections 34 and 35 being read--
              Mr. GORDON, of Boone, proposed to insert in section 35 this: "The Governor,
                Auditor, Secretary, Agent and Treasurer of State shall appoint a suitable person to
                act as Insurance Commissioner" taking it out of the hands of the Auditor alone.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, moved to amend the amendment by striking out the word
                "Governor," and making the Commissioner elective by the Board.
              The CHAIRMAN held that it was not germain.
              Mr. GORDON'S amendment was then rejected.
              Sections 36, 37, 08. 39, 40, 41 and 42 being read--
              On motion of Mr. BRITTON, the emergency (section 42) was stricken out.
              Mr. RHODES moved to substitute for section 41 a proviso "That all charges, fees and
                receipts of every kind and description, collected under this act, after the payment
                of the salaries and fees herein provided for, to the officers entitled thereto,
                shall be merged into and become a part of the common school fund."
              The amendment was agreed to.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, proposed to further amend by an additional section,
                viz:
              "SECTION 42. And be it further enacted that Companies doing the business of life
                insurance in the State of Indiana, shall invest or be loaned on real estate
                securities situated within this State, not less than 60 per cent. of their net
                receipts of each Company within the State each year, and the same or an amount equal
                to the necessary reserve leased on four per cent. interest in all risks held by each
                Company within this State, shall be kept within this State so long as such risks are
                in force."
              Mr. RUDDELL moved to add the words "and Governor" after the word "auditor" in line
                12 of section 35, which was agreed to.
              On motion of Mr. STRICKLAND, the vote adopting section 8 was reconsidered, and the
                following adopted in lieu--it being the amendment heretofore offered by Mr.
                Washburn:
              SEC. 5. The guarantee stock shall be invested in United States bonds, or loaned and
                secured in bonds or mortgages on unincumbered real estate in the State of Indiana
                worth fifty per cent. more than the sum loaned thereon; all interest on deposits
                shall accrue to the benefit of the company making such deposit; provided that if, at
                any time upon the examination of such deposits by the Commissioner provided for in
                this act, it shall be ascertained that the bonds or real estate so mortgaged shall
                be found to have depreciated below the amount specified in this act, it shall be the
                duty of the Commissioner to notify the secretary of said company of such deficiency,
                and if said company fails to deposit additional securities to the required amount,
                the Auditor of State shall revoke the licenses of all agents of such companies."
              On motion of Mr. MACK the vote rejecting Mr. Calkins of Porter's amendment for a
                new section was reconsidered, and the question recurred on its adoption.
              Mr. WILSON said it would drive all the insurance companies out of the State.
              The amendment was then adopted, as above.
              Mr. WILSON desired to return to section 15 and reconsider the vote by which his
                substitute for said section was rejected.
              The motion was rejected.
              On motion of Mr. RHODES the Committee then rose, and the Chairman reported the bill
                to the House, with sundry amendments, recommending is passage.
              Mr. RICE submitted a resolution for an order to allow the Principal and Assistant
                Clerks each $200 for indexing and proof-reading in the printing of the Journal of
                the present session.
              On motion of Mr. STONE, it was referred to the Committee on Ways and
                  Means.
              On motion of Mr. STONE, (the restrictions having been removed for the purpose) Mr.
                Neff's bill, [H. R. 342], to repeal all laws now in force, authorizing the levy and
                collection of any tax for State debt Sinking Fund purposes, was taken up, twice
                read, and finally passed the House--yeas 85, nays 0; and Mr. Neff's bill, [H. R.
                343], to raise revenue for State purposes for the years 1871 and 1872, and for
                subsequent years, was also taken up and carried to the final passage in the House of
                Representatives--yeas 84, nays 0.
              The House then at 5:35 o'clock adjourned.
              Mr. GORDON, of Boone's explanation of his vote on the passage of the Senate salary
                bill No. 4 having been omitted in its place in our reports of yesterday it is
                inserted here:
              Mr. SPEAKER: There is no question that can come before this
                House that I am as much interested in as I am in the question of fees and salaries.
                My constituents are perhaps more interested in the reduction of the fees of our
                county officers than any other  that can come
                before this General Assembly, and I only vote for this bill because I think it the
                best we can do at this session, the time having so nearly expired. I had hoped that
                this bill would have been amended so as to reduce the per cent from twenty to ten
                and the allowance from fifteen hundred to one thousand dollars, but I find that
                impossible at this late hour, hence I vote aye.
              Mr. RHODES, in explanation of his vote on the fee and salary bill passed by the
                House yesterday, said:
              Mr. Speaker--I vote for this law under protest. I disapprove of the manner in which
                its friends have strangled debate upon it, and cut off all opportunity for
                amendments. I have little doubt but that it will fail in many particulars to relieve
                the counties against the evils complained of. In my opinion the law will operate
                unfairly and unjustly. Parties litigant are not relieved from any of the oppressive
                provisions of the present law, but their misfortunes are made to relieve the general
                burthens of taxation. This to my mind is not only unjust, but it is of extremely
                doubtful constitutionality. Sir, I am opposed to the principle which taxes the
                estates of decedents and minors and other litigants of the State to build up a fund
                to pay the ordinary expenses of the counties. This I understand will be the
                practical workings of this bill. While I heartily indorse that feature, if the bill
                contains it, which cuts off constructive fees (a proposition upon which I am by no
                means satisfied.) I think the other one just named is inexcusably unjust. I also
                protest against the indecent haste with which this bill has been put through this
                House. I see no necessity for it. Whether it will give any substantial relief to the
                people of the State is a question upon which the best men of this House are divided.
                I trust its friends will not find themselves mistaken, and the people
                unintentionally cheated. I therefore vote for the bill with little hope of its
                beneficial results, and believing that no other law on the subject can be passed at
                this session.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            FRIDAY, [IN CONTINUATION,] February 17, and
                SATURDAY, February 18, 1871.
          
          Mr. HENDERSON demanded the previous question on the majority and minority reports of
            the Special Committee to whom was referred the papers in the case of Kline vs. John W.
            Burson, claiming a seat in the Senate from the counties of Delaware and Madison.
          Mr. MARTINDALE moved that the Senate adjourn.
          The yeas and nays being demanded; they were ordered and taken, pending which--
          Mr. FOSDICK asked to be excused from voting and--
          Mr. HOOPER moved that he be excused.
          Upon this motion the yeas and nays were also demanded, ordered and taken; pending
            which--
          Mr. HOOPER asked to be excused from voting, and--
          Mr. MARTINDALE made that motion.
          Mr. FULLER raised the point of order that it is not competent to ask to be excused from
            voting on a motion to adjourn.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR sustained the point of order, and announced the result of the
            vote on the motion to adjourn yeas 19, nays 23.
          The yeas and nays having been demanded they were ordered and taken on Mr. Henderson's
            demand for the previous question; pending which--
          Messrs. DWIGGINS, GRAY, STEELE and TAYLOR asked to be excused from voting, and--
          Messrs. WADGE, HOOPER, GRAY and WOOD entered motions to excuse them, and--
          Mr. MARTINDALE made an ineffectual motion to adjourn--yeas 20, nays 22.
          Mr. BROWN, understanding that the roll call has been completed on the demand for the
            previous question made the point of order that the result should be announced.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. No. Several Senators have asked to be excused from voting on
            that motion.
          Mr. GRAY demanded a call of the Senate.
          On this motion the yeas and nays were demanded, ordered, and while being taken--
          Mr. STEELE and Mr. WADGE asked to be excused from voting: and the yeas and nays were
            demanded ordered and taken on the motion to excuse Mr. Steele. Pending which
          Messrs. GLESSNER and HOOPER spoke in explanation of their votes. While the latter had
            the floor--
          Mr. HENDERSON proposed to withdraw his demand for the previous question, but--
          Mr. STEELE objected.
          Mr. JOHNSTON explained his vote.
          Mr. MARTINDALE obtained the floor to explain his vote, but was interrupted by--
          Mr. WILLIAMS raised the point of order that no Senator has the right to explain his
            vote when his name is called.
          The LT. GOVERNOR overruled this point of order, and--
          Mr. Bradley joined Mr. Willliams in an appeal from this decision.
          The LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR stating the question to be "shall the decision of the chair
            stand as the judgment of the Senate?"
          Mr. DWIGGINS occupied the floor several hours in the discussion of this point of order
            and in the reading by the Clerk of the testimony of William Lewis before the
            investigating Committee, and from the report of that committee.
          Mr. GRAY also claimed the attention of the Senate several hours in a speech on the
            question involved in the appeal, and in the reading by the Clerk of the testimony of
            Jesse Faulkner,pending which Mr. G. yielded for a motion to adjourn, which was rejected
            by yeas, 19; nays, 22, while Mr. Gray had the floor--
          Mr. WILLIAMS raised the point of order that Senators could not have these papers read
            without the consent of the Senate.
          The LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR replied that he had never yet undertaken to determine that a
            Senator shall say on any question.
          Mr. MARTINDALE held the floor from six o'clock P. M. till thirty-five minutes part four
            o'clock A. M. During this time--
          Mr. WILLIAMS renewed his objection insisting that the reading of these papers was out
            of order.
          Mr. MARTINDALE declared that he should incorporate them in his speech--every word--in
            the language of the Indian-  apolis JOURNAL my
            speech will appear in the appendix to the BREVIER REPORTS.
          Mr. WILLIAMS then submitted the following protest:
          The Chair having decided that the Secretory shall read papers without the consent of
            the Senate, I ask that said decision shall be placed upon the journal of the Senate with
            the following parliamentary law (rule 14) of the United States Senate: "When the reading
            of a paper is called for and the same is objected to by any member it shall be
            determined by a vote of the Senate, and without debate." I objected to the reading and
            was decided out of order by the presiding officer.
          J. D. WILLIAMS.
          Mr. ROSEBRUGH, at twenty minutes after midnight made an ineffectual motion--yeas 18,
            nays 24--for a recess of fifteen minutes, recognizing the right of the Senator from
            Marion [Mr. Martindale] to hold the floor, in order, as this is to be a matter of
            history, that both parties may talk among themselves and come to a compromise that may
            be creditable to them and preserve the dignity of the State.
          When Mr. MARTINDALE concluded, the floor was awarded to--
          Mr. HADLEY, who possessed it for three hours and a half--while discussing points in the
            depositions and having the same read by the clerks.
          Mr. SCOTT was recognized and kept the clerks at work until they had finished reading
            that portion of the testimony referred to in the report of the majority of the
            committee.
          Mr. BRADLEY asked leave to make a report from a committee.
          Mr. HENDERSON objected. He didn't want one bit of Legislation to intervene.
          On motion of Mr. BROWN, the appeal (Messrs. Williams and Bradley's) was laid on the
            table by yeas 38, nays 4. In his judgment the point in the appeal was not well
            taken.
          The LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR declaring the question to be on excusing the Senator from
            Grant, (Mr. Steele), from voting on the question as to whether a call of the Senate
            shall be had--
          Mr. BROWN submitted the following:
          The President of the Senate having decided that after the commencement of a roll call
            for a vote upon a demand for the previous question upon the adoption of the reports in
            the Burson case, other motions can be made and determined, pending said roll call the
            undersigned appeal from the decision of the President of the Senate to the judgment of
            the Senate.
          JASON B. BROWN, B. S. FULLER.
          Mr. BROWN demanded the previous question, which was seconded by the Senate on a yea and
            nay vote.
          The question being "Shall the decision of the Chair stand as the judgment of the
            Senate?" the yeas and nays were being taken thereon, when--
          Messrs. DWIGGINS, FOSDICK, and GRAY, asked to be excused from voting.
          Mr. GREEN, when his name was called, was about half an hour explaining his vote, in the
            course of which he said, since these gentlemen have used the power they possess in the
            way they have, for himself he would stand here till the sixth day of March--he was ready
            to go, not into revolution, but ready to go to the verge of it, and the verge of
            revolution will carry us over this session.
          Mr. BROWN for his side of the chamber replied that when charges have been preferred
            against Mr. Burson which disqalify him from admission to the Senate as a member, and
            when these charges have been, investigated by a committee appointed by the Senate, and
            that committee has reported the charges to be true, as by his own act he has
            disqualified himself from holding a seat in this Senate, the Senate should act upon it
            at once, and I say that not one particle of legislation shall be had until this question
            is determined. ["Amen," "consent," "exactly."]
          Mr. GREEN. I understand, then, that the issue is made. The Senator from Jackson [Mr.
            Brown] has tendered the issue, and that issue is the issue of pluck, as I understand
            it.
          Mr. BROWN (in his seat). Exactly.
          Mr. GREEN. Well, sir, I give him to understand that I feel that there is a little pluck
            over here. [Voices"--Right," "yes there is," etc.] When Mr. G. had concluded--
          Mr. STEELE, when his name was called, in explanation of his vote, spoke at great
            length, reviewing the Burson case from the very beginning,when he requested the Clerk to
            read as part of his speech the testimony of Captain William Lewis. Objection being made
            he replied that he was willing to have this matter set for some day next week for a
            decision after argument on both sides.
          Mr. BROWN (interposing) make that motion ; let us vote on it; we will take it.
          Mr. STEELE. The Senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown] told us last night it could not be
            agreed to.
          Mr. BROWN. It will be now.
          Mr. MARTINDALE desired the consent of the Senator from Grant [Mr. Steele] to move that
            this matter be set down for hearing at ten o'clock Tuesday morning, with the
            understanding that it is to be argued for two hours on both sides (each side to occupy
            half the time), and the vote to be taken before the adjournment in the evening.
          Mr. GLESSNER suggested Wednesday.
          Mr. ARMSTRONG submitted a resolution embodying Mr. Martindale's motion, giving fifteen
            minutes additional for the prosecution to close.
          Mr. STEELE refused to yield the floor if there be one single objection.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR suggested that the prosecution have one hour to open and one
            hour and a quarter to close. [Voices--"Consent," "consent."]
          Mr. GREEN. Parliamentary rules must be adhered to.
          Mr. BROWN. It shall be done, Mr. Green.
          Mr. STEELE. Let It be done this way:  The other
            side open one hour, then one hour alternately till the close.
          Mr. BROWN. That would violate the rule; it would let your side close.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Is there any objection to this proposition? Then it may be
            considered adopted by consent.
          On motion, it was--
          Ordered That when the Senate adjourn, it be till 2 o'clock Monday.
          Mr. SCOTT moved that 200 copies of the evidence which has been read before this body be
            printed.
          Mr. MARTINDALE suggested that a committee of one Senator from each side be appointed to
            arrange the evidence and argument if it is to be printed.
          Mr. BROWN. Let the Chairman and Mr. Scott be that committee.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR, I was going to State that.
          Mr. STEELE. It had better be in some shape, so the printer will get sufficient force on
            it to have it printed by Tuesday morning.
          Mr. ROSEBRUGH moved to amend by printing 250 copies.
          Mr. BROWN suggested 1,500.
          On motion by Mr. FULLER, the amendments were laid on the table.
          The motion to print 200 copies was agreed to.
          Messrs. Francisco, Andrews, Morgan, Beggs, Wood, Lasselle, Gray, Armstrong, and Collett
            obtained leave of absence till Tuesday morning.
          And then, at noon, the Senate adjourned, after a continuous session of twenty-six
            hours, till Monday at 2 o'clock p. m.
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            SATURDAY. February 18, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M.
          On motion of Mr. NEFF, Mr. Martin of Putnam, was called to the Chair.
          The order of prayer by Elder Black, of the Christian Church.
          The order of reading the journal of yesterday being announced--
          Mr. ZENOR, moved that it be dispensed with.
          Mr. STEPHENSON objected.
          Mr. BIGGS and Mr. RUDDELL demanded the yeas and nays; whereupon--
          Mr. ZENOR withdrew his motion to dispense.
          The journal was then read by the Clerk and approved by the House.
          Messrs. Millikan and Lines obtained leave of absence till Monday.
          
            CORRECTION OF THE JOURNAL.
            Mr. RUDDELL. If the Clerk will return to that part of the journal which relates to
              the appral taken yesterday from the decision of the Chair, I desire to make a slight
              correction there.
            The Clerk read the close of the paragraph, which records the reason why the appeal of
              Mr. Ruddell was ruled out of order.
            Mr. RUDDELL, That for the journal is correctly made as to the point decided, and in
              that place I desire that it should be added that I asked the Speaker to state the
              point ruled upon, that I might correct the appeal, which the speaker refused, deciding
              that an appeal can not be amended, and upon that I desired to take an appeal, which
              the speaker refused to entertain. I will ask that the journal be corrected here as
              follows:
            "Mr. Ruddell asked the Speaker to state what the point ruled upon was,that he might
              amend his appeal. The Speaker refused to inform the House what the point decided was,
              and decided that the appeal could not be amended. Mr. Ruddell asked leave to appeal
              from that decision, which the Speaker refused to entertain."
            Mr. McDONALD moved to lay the motion to amend the journal on the table.
            Mr. WILSON desired to be heard on the question.
            The SPEAKER. There is a motion to lay on the table and debate is out of order.
            The yeas and nays were demanded, ordered, and being taken, when--
            Mr. COPNER and Mr. FRIEDLEY successively desired to explain their votes, but
              objection being made their explanations were repressed by the chair.
            Mr. RUDDELL, when his name was called, said: Do I understand the Speaker to rule that
              the consent of the House is necessary in order that a member may explain his vote?
            The SPEAKER, yes.
            Mr. RUDDELL: Then I appeal from that decision.
            Mr. CAUTHORN made the point of order that two appeals could not be entertained at the
              same time.
            The SPEAKER: The chair will allow the gentleman to make his appeal.
            Mr. BIGGS. Does not that stop the roll call?
            The SPEAKER, No, sir. The clerk will proceed with the call.
            The roll having been called through, pending the announcement of the result--
            Mr. CAUTHORN desired to record his vote.
            Mr. CONNER. Was the gentleman within the bar at the time his name was called?
            VOICES--"No!" "No!"
            Mr. CAUTHORN. No.
            The SPEAKER. The gentleman can not vote except by consent of the House.
            Mr. NEFF. I move that the gentleman from Knox have leave to vote.
            Mr. CONNER. Do I understand the Chair to decide that the gentleman may vote by leave
              of a majority of the House?
            The SPEAKER. He may vote if the House so decide.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, demanded the yeas and nays on Mr. Neff's motion, and they
              were ordered, and being taken, resulted--yeas 45, nays 33--Mr. Williams being excused
              from voting--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Barnaby, Britton. Browning, Bruner
                    Butterworth. Caldwell, Coggswell, Copner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Devol,
                    Donham, Gallentine, Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Cass  Hardin, Hartley, Hawley, Harnes, Henderson, Holland,
                    Hynes, Knight, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Minich, Montgomery, Neff,
                    Rice, Sansberry, Shutt, Stanley, Stephens, Stone, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Taylor,
                    Tebbs, Walker, Warrum, Zenor and Mr. Speaker--44.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Beeler, Biggs, Calkins of Fulton, Calkins of
                    Porter, Conner Deputy, Friedley. Gordon, of Boone, Hooker, Kennedy, King, Major,
                    Martin of Wayne, Martin of Putnam, Millikan, Monroe, Myers, Netherton, Rawles,
                    Rhodes Ruddell, Sabin, Sayers, Snodgrass, Stephsnson, Strickland, Washburn,
                    White, Wilson, Wood, and Mr. Woodward--43.
                
              
            
            So Mr. Canthorn was allowed to record his vote on the motion to lay Mr. Ruddell's
              proposition to amend the journal on the table.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter. Mr. Speaker, when I demanded the yeas and nays, I had not the
              rules before me. I see now by the wording of the rules that a majority may admit a
              member to vote.
            Mr. RUDDELL now submitted his appeal in writing as follows: "The Speaker having
              decided that a member may not explain his vote upon a call of the yeas and nays
              without the consent of the House, the undersign respectfully appeal from that
              decision," signed by himself and Mr. Biggs.
            Mr. ZENOR moved to lay the appeal on the table.
            The SPEAKER. The Chair would prefer a direct vote upon the appeal.
            Mr. ZENOR then withdrew his motion.
            The SPEAKER. The question is this: Shall the decision of the Chair stand as the
              decision of the House?
            Mr. MACK. (Mr. Neff in the chair.( Mr. Speaker: I have become satisfied that the
              ruling sought to be obtained by this appeal, must be liable to very frequent abuse in
              legislative bodies, especially where there is a large number--what shall constitute
              the explanation of a vote is a question that is very difficult to settle. A gentleman
              may speak one minute by way of explanation, or one hour, or ten hours, and if that is
              the case the ruling may operate so that legislation cannot be effectually carried on.
              But it has been stated that such ruling should obtain under the operation of the
              previous question, I have examined the authorities; and I am clearly of the opinion
              that the reason for the ruling is unsound, and that its operation would be unjust; and
              I cannot find anything in the books that will sanction it But if any gentleman desires
              to make an explanation of his vote and the House will hear him, I also shall be
              willing to hear him. It is too generally the case that when gentlemen desire to
              explain their votes, it is for the reason, and only for the reason that they may
              influence somebody else's vote.
            Mr. McDONALD. We might as well meet this matter squarely, and the Speaker has
              presented the question fairly. We very well know the reason why this matter has been
              sprung upon us. I feel, sir, that the Speaker and this House has ruled fight; and to
              convince any gentleman I need only refer to what is now transpiring at the other end
              of the Capitol.
            Mr. RUDDELL (interposing) I call the gentleman to order. He has no right to refer to
              the other end of the Capitol.
            The SPEAKER pro tem. I decide that the gentleman from Whitley is in
              order.
            Mr. WILSON. I appeal from that decision.
            The SPEAKER, taking the Chair. The gentleman from Lawrence (Mr. Friedley) has the
              floor.
            Mr. WILSON claimed that he was recognized by the Chair.
            The SPEAKER. When any gentleman rises and addresses the chair, I will hear him. The
              gentleman from Marion made his speech before he was recognized. The gentleman from
              Lawrence has the floor.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY. My point is that it is not in order for the gentleman from Whitley to
              refer to the proceedings at the other end of the capitol.
            The SPEAKER, The Chair decides that he has the right to do so--only it is not proper
              for him to recite the condition of a bill at the other end of the capitol. The
              gentleman from Whitley will proceed.
            Mr. McDONALD. Well, I shall try to be courteous, Mr. Speaker; but I wish to be
              understood to mean just what I say. If the minority here intend to fritter away the
              time of the House by dilatory and frivilous motions and speeches, common courtesy will
              hardly serve in the case; and I have a right to speak of them plainly; and if I choose
              to do so I have the right to refer to the ruling at the other end of the capitol to
              condemn such a course. Why, sir, the ruling there would allow a gentleman to get up
              there and read anything he chooses by way of explaining his vote, and hold the floor
              from hour to hour and from day to day--and the result is that the people of Indiana
              have to pay for it. There has been a disposition here to fritter away the time of the
              House by gentlemen who know that the majority must bear the responsibility. But I
              propose to throw the responsibility where it belongs. While we stand here as the
              majority, we are responsible to the people, and we cannot allow this chair to be
              overridden by such filibustering--such guerrilla warfare. I have myself felt this
              difficulty of the chair in the effort to preserve order here.
            Mr. RUDDELL, I move that the language of the gentleman from Whitley be taken
              down.
            Mr. McDONALD. Yes sir! take it down, and put it in your pipe and smoke it.
            Mr. CAUTHORN. Any gentleman has the right to have the words of another taken--
            Mr. BROWNING. The gentleman from Marion (Mr. Ruddell) did not address the chair at
              all.
            The SPEAKER. He is not in the habit of doing that.
            Mr. RUDDELL. The gentleman's words were that the minority on this floor were carrying
              on a guerilla warfare for the purpose of bringing members into discredit; that it was
              the purpose of the minority to  fritter away time
              here at the expense of the majority. Such language, I say, is unparliamentary.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY. I wish the following words of the gentleman taken down: that the
              members of the minority have been guilty of confusion and noisy conduct for the
              express purpose of bringing discredit upon the chair, and his reference must have been
              to that transaction in committee of the whole yesterday when he called the gentleman
              from Kosciusko to order.
            The SPEAKER. My recollection is that the gentleman has not given the exact
              language.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY. I can not say whether I am strictly accurate.
            Mr. CALKIKS, of Porter. A soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stirreth
              up anger. [Laughter.]
            Mr. NEFF. I would like to amend by adding the following: "Let us have peace."
            Mr. BRITTON. "The wages of sin is death."
            Mr. CAUTHORN. "Behold how good and how pleasant a thing it is for brethren to dwell
              together in unity."
            Mr. HAYNES. "Cursed is he that worketh in the counsels of the ungodly."
              (Humorously.)
            Mr. McDONALD, (resuming.) I think the ruling of the Chair was right. Every
              gentleman's vote explains itself. The practice of making long speeches is
              impracticable. If gentlemen will explain in writing and hand it to the reporter I will
              not object--none will object. We are here to transact business, and it should not be
              retarded in this way. I do not wish to cast an unreasonable reproach upon the
              minority; and I believe the minority here as a body would not cast reproach upon me or
              the party with which I act, unless there was reason for it. And therefore I think the
              ruling of the Chair should be sustained. It becomes a matter of economy and justice to
              the people. The Speaker in the kindness of his heart, it seems to me, has allowed too
              much latitude for explanations.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY would gladly sustain the Chair in correct ruling; but it would be wrong
              in the House to sustain such ruling as this. It is known that the majority here have
              the power, and have exercised it here to override the minorityto call the previous
              question, cutting off debate, and holding and placing the minority completely at their
              mercyby introducing propositions, making their speeches, and calling the previous
              question, so that the minority are not allowed to discuss their propositions; and if
              they are not allowed to explain their votes with their aye or nay, they must go to the
              country without the privilege of explaining their vote upon the record.
            Mr. ZENOR (interposing). Have we not the right to make explanations in writing ?
            Mr. FRIEDLEY. Until the Salary bill came up, I knew nothing of the practice of
              reducing to writing what a member might have to say. I say it is a matter of shere
              justice to the minority, this right to explain a vote. If we travel out of order go
              further than we ought in our explanationsit is in their power to call us to order.
              Besides this there is a rule that no man shall occupy more than ten minutes; and the
              majority can enforce the rules. Then, under such restrictions and limitations, I ask
              if it is fair to put this padlock on the mouths of the minorityto prevent the
              explanation of a vote. I appeal to gentlemen. Are they willing to take this step? I
              know these are fair minded Democrats heremen on the other side who are willing to do
              justice under all circumstances and I do not believe they are willing to put foot upon
              the necks of the minority, by saying they shall have no voice but aye or nay.
              Something has been said about the disposition of the minority to fritter away the time
              of the majority of this House, but who is it that has frittered away the most time?
              But a few days ago the first thing that was done here after the reading of the
              journal, was the offering of a resolution concerning some strictures in the
              Indianapolis JOURNAL, by a gentleman on the side of the maioritythe hand of the clock
              then pointing to twenty minutes after nine- and before the action thereon was
              concluded it was carried to fifteen minutes before 12. A half day of the peoples' time
              was throw away by the majority on this floor talk about a matter in which the people
              take no interest. Now I say it comes with bad grace for them to accuse us of
              frittering away time. I rember, also, that a proposition was made here to donate
              $1,300 to a member of the Democratic party, and a great deal of time was consumed upon
              that measure.
            The SPEAKER. The gentleman will understand the question. Does parliamentary law allow
              a man to explain his vote?
            Mr. FRIEDLEY. Yes. I know that; but I was following the gentleman from Whitley (Mr.
              McDonald )
            The SPEAKER. I did not call the gentleman to order; but after this I shall certainly
              keep gentlemen to the question.
            Mr.CAUTHORN. The gentleman commenced 10 minutes past 10; now it is 24 minutes
              past.
            The SPEAKER. The gentleman's time up.
            Mr. RUDDELL. I understand that we have a rule limiting speeches to 10 minutes on this
              floor; and if a member go beyond that time, there is no limit thereafter to his time
              on the floor. The ten minutes point was made on the gentleman from Lawrence (Mr.
              Friedlye); that he had spoken beyond that limitation. I say that if the House consent
              that he may continue after that, there is no law to stop him.
            Mr. CAUTHORN. No consent was given.
            The SPEAKER. I notify gentlemen again that this discussion must be confined to the
              legal question.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter. Was not much of a biblical man, but there is somewhere in the
              Bible this: "Come, let us reason together." That is the position we should occupy this
              morning; we should reason to-  gether. There
              ought not to be any cause for heart burnings and bickerings here. I trust that the
              balance of the term may be spent as pleasantly as the former part. The question is has
              a member the right to explain his vote under the operation of the previous question?
              or whether the previous question has been demanded or not? There is no previous
              question in the matter pending.
            The SPEAKER: The question is whether you can get up and explain while a vote is being
              taken.
            Mr. CALKINS: I have always understood that an explanation is not a speech, but a
              reasonable reason for the vote cast. A speech is for several purposes and among them
              is to give authorities to prove that a proposition is correct; and another is to meet
              the argument before presented. But an explanation is a mere reason--that is all it can
              be. Now, that we have abused this right of explanation I readily assent. But the mere
              explanation restricted to the proper use of language, and to the proper reason for
              giving the vote, I have no doubt should be admissable. But I hold that it is the
              peculiar province of the Chair, or of any member, if a gentleman goes beyond the
              proper explanation, to call him to order--to see that he goes no further. An
              explanation is simply a reason for voting; and here now the question is material, only
              that it may establish a precedent. I will state generally that none have found less
              fault with the ruling on this floor than myself. I have readily yielded to every
              ruling of the Chair, because I have tried to think that if there is a mistake about
              it, it is an honest mistake. This question as I said before is for the purpose of
              establishing a precedent; that is the only materiality the question has. Now must a
              man appear here on every question in bold type, yes, or no, or may he say: Mr.
              Speaker, the reason I give this vote is because so and so. That is the proposition,
              and it is a very plain one. I submit that it ought not to he misunderstood. I am sure
              that the Speaker would not for a moment impinge the rights of any member on this
              floor, nor do I believe that for the mere pride of opinion he would adhere to a
              decision if it was not his judgment that the ruling has been right. I submit then that
              explanation is the right of every member, but it ought to be carefully guarded.
            Mr. BROWNING heartily endosed the remarks of the gentleman from Porter (Mr Calkins).
              They were made in a proper spirit, and if we would exercise more of it, it would be
              better for legislation. We should acquiesce in the rule with more readiness. I am free
              to say that under certain circumstances a man should be permitted to explain, is, If
              the original proposition admits of discussion, then I think a man has the right to
              explain. But when we have a proposition which is not in itself debatable, certainly we
              can not explain the vote. It would be an indirect way of doing that which we have no
              right to do. Then I say upon the taking of the question on a proposition which, under
              the rules, is debatable in a condition that admits of debateevery man has a right to
              explain his vote. But I do not believe that a man should get up and explain his vote
              on a proposition that is not debatable; and if there be no rule for itand I fail to
              find any -where do gentlemen get their authority for the appeal before us? I repeat
              that it is our duty to abide by the rules; and the Chair should he sustained in the
              absence of rule. The Chair should have discretionary power of this kind in all
              legislative bodies.
            Mr. CAUTHORN did not think it proper that this House should be turned into a debating
              society, and objected to gentlemen talking at random about this or that. This question
              should be met judicially and a judge would not indulge in a harengue. If gentlemen
              have authority for their appeal let them be recited; but as to their own opinions let
              them keep them to themselves. All I have to say about this is that by the Constitution
              of the State any man here has the right to put his protest on the journal, and as to
              the way in which he may do so, the House may prescribe that. We may tell him to put it
              in writing if he desires to protect himself under the force of the previous
              question--and thus would be avoided the consumption of time in explanations.
            Mr. WILSON spoke particularly to the right of explanation. This body cannot determine
              how a gentleman is interested as to a proposition except he explain. This is one of
              the highest duties of the member, the right to explain his vote. It is not merely his
              individual vote--he asks that his constituents may be heard--that he may state his
              reason succinctly--not make a speech, but state why the proposition should or should
              not become a law. When a question is put, his right and duty is to vote on it, and his
              special right to say why he votes. He can't be compelled to say in bold type merely
              yea or nay.
            The SPEAKER. Is there any presumption of right that it shall go upon the journal?
            Mr. WILSON. Yes, sir, as certainly as we have a journal, and are supposed to have an
              official reporter. He supported this opinion by the Digest, page 271, and the general
              law section 1980, showing the privilige of explation as distinguished from that of
              debate. Surely it is a novel ruling that a gentleman may not explain his vote. In all
              my researches I have failed to find any denial of this right.
            The SPEAKER, Can every member take up the time of the House to explain his vote?
            Mr. WILSON. Pending a motion to lay on the table which cuts off debate the only right
              left to the member is explanation when his name is called, and to exercise it is the
              highest duty of a member.
            Mr. TAYLOR concurred, generally, in the reasoning of Mr. Browning.
            Mr. NEFF hoped that after one speech more by the gentleman from Marion (Mr. Ruddell)
              the House will come to a vote on this matter.

            

            Mr. RUDDELL had taken this appeal for the purpose of establishing a precedent, a
              fixed rule by which we may be governed. The case is where the yeas and nays are
              demanded on a question which is not debatable, can a gentleman have a right to explain
              his vote? This happens to be the question before us now, I moved to have the minutes
              of the House proceedings corrected. I had the right to be heard on that motion. It was
              a matter of importance to the minority on this floor that their action should be
              properly placed in the journal--that their position on the question, their vote on the
              question, and especially their personal attitude to the points made, should be
              properly reported to the people. I moved to have the Journal corrected so as to do
              justice to the minority; and a gentleman of the majority party jumped up and moved to
              lay my motion on the table. A motion to lay on the table is not debatable. He has cut
              off every opportunity for debate, and under the ruling of the Speaker yesterday even
              the demand that the journal of the House shall be read for information is cut off, and
              the right of appeal is denied.
            The SPEAKER. I call the gentleman to order. I made no such ruling. The gentleman from
              Marion will take his seat.
            Mr. RUDDELL. I call upon the chair to state--
            The SPEAKER, plying the hammer. The Sargeant at Arms will see that the gentleman is
              seated.
            Mr. Ruddell takes his seat.
            The SPEAKER. The point of order is this: The gentleman from Marion charges that the
              Chair has cut off the right of appeal; but the fact was, that his exceptions did not
              embody the subject matter from whom he sought to appeal.
            Mr. RUDDELL. Was not the decision of the Chair, on the roll-call for the yeas and
              nays under the operation of the previous question, that a bill could not be read for
              information?
            The SPEAKER. Yes, sir.
            Mr. RUDDELL. That is what I insisted upon.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter. This is my understanding, and, if wrong, I should not have
              voted for the gentleman's appeal. I in quire of the Speaker. When the gentleman from
              Marion sent up his appeal yesterday, I think myself that it did not embody the
              particular point then ruled upon. But then the gentleman asked leave to amend the
              appeal.
            The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Marion called upon the Chair to repeat the
              ruling.
            Mr. CALKINS. I believe that is so; and the Speaker declined. Now I wish to say, with
              the permission of the Chair, this one thing: Certainly neither the House nor the
              Speaker can want these facts to go incorrectly upon the journal; because, if the
              ruling of the Speaker was wrong, the record should be accurate: and if it was right,
              still the record would not hurt anybody.
            Mr. RUDDELL. This was the effect of the ruling. The previous question having been
              demanded and seconded, the question being on the main question, and the yeas and nays
              demanded and ordered, the voting having commenced, and there being no opportunity for
              discussion--the effect of the decision was, that a gentleman has no right whatever to
              explain his vote, though he may not know at the time anything in regard to the
              question before the House. I understand that under these circumstances the member has
              the right to call for the reading of the bill before the House. Now I say that the
              effect of that ruling is, that, under the motion of the gentleman from Whitley--that
              motion not being debatable--I shall uot have the poor privilege of explaining my vote;
              that I shall not have even the benefit of reading and correcting the journal of
              yesterday, according to the understanding of the House. And for that reason I have
              taken this present appeal from the decision of the Chair to the judgment of the
              majority. If the objection of the gentleman from Allen and the gentleman from Brown is
              not met in this plain statement, then I do not know how to meet an objection. I say,
              sir, it is the right of every member on this floor, upon any motion whatever, to
              explain his vote. The further effect of the decision is, that we have no law on this
              subject. But if we have no law, we have custom; and we know very well that it has been
              custom in other Legislatures to explain the vote--that it has been the custom in our
              own House, and in the body at the other end of the Capitol. And, Mr. Speaker, we are
              governed by custom--custom makes laws in some instances. It has been objected by the
              Speaker, the gentleman from Brown and the gentleman from Whitley, that a member should
              not have the right to explain his vote, because it would place in the hands of the
              minority the power to consume the time of the House--because it might enable then to
              carry on an unpleasant kind of warfare here. Now, sir, while it may be admitted that
              the exercise of this right may at times result in wrongs--that there may be evil in
              some of its results--yet, Mr. Speaker, it is one of the weapons of self-defense placed
              in the hands of minorities in all legislative bodies which has never yet been tampered
              with. Under such rulings as we have had from the Chair for the last few days, I can
              conceive of the majority taking the bits in their mouths, and forbidding the minority
              to explain their votes--even the right to call in question the correctness of the
              journal of the House--forbidding to the minority even the poor privilege of having the
              reporter to present them properly through the press. I can conceive of the majority,
              with such new assumptions of power, ignoring the minority comparatively, and trampling
              down even their constitutional rights upon this floor. On word further. While it is
              possible for the minority to while away a little time on the one hand, it is also
              possible on the other hand for the majority to 
              present and press obnoxious measures, and trample upon the rights of the minority so
              far as to forbid the privilege of staying for a little time such proceedings.
            VOICES. "We are talking about rights." "Ten minutes out."
            The SPEAKER, using the gavel. The gentleman will take his seat.
            Mr. RUDDELL. That is just what I want to know--whether we have any rights here--
            The SPEAKER. The gentleman will be seated by the power of the House.
            Mr. RUDDELL, taking his seat. Yes, sir, and I despise the power.
            The SPEAKER stated the ruling of the Chair here, and directed the Clerk to record the
              last words of the gentleman from Marion,(Mr. Ruddell.)
            After some time spent in making the record which was determined as above--
            Mr. CAUTHORN moved that the gentleman from Marion be brought to the bar of the House
              for censure on account of tne words used by him, and thereupon he demanded the
              previous question.
            Mr.FRlEDLEY appealed to the gentleman from Knox against the demand for the previous
              question.
            Mr. CAUTHORN. I am perfectly willing to hear the gentleman if he will renew the
              demand.
            Mr. FRIEDLY. It is not so much for myself, as that my friend from Marion may be heard
              on this proposition.
            The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Marion can be heard.
            Mr. RUDDELL. I will say, sir, in explanation, that I have felt for some time that the
              rights of the minority upon this plan were being comparatively ignoredthat we were
              subjected to rulings that are unparliamentaryand that we were not even allowed the
              poor privilege of appealing from these rulings. And it must be confessed, Mr. Speaker,
              that it is no pleasant thing to be snubbed day after day by the presiding officer, for
              whose decisions we should have respect, and we should feel that he may have perhaps
              unintentionally indulged in unjust and oppressive rulings, when we have demanded the
              right to appeal from the rulings--
            The SPEAKER. The gentleman will come to order. The question is with reference to the
              words spoken a few moments ago.
            Mr. RUDDELL. Well, I will speak to that. Just a few moments before, some gentleman (I
              believe the gentleman from Putnam), asked if the gentlemen from Lawrence (Mr.
              Friedley) had not gone beyond the limitation -10 minutes. It was answered that he had
              spoken 14 minutes. I asked then of the Chair if a man should consume 10 minutes and it
              should be asked and granted by the House for him to proceed beyond that, if the
              gentleman would not have the right to speak indefinitely? And the Speaker answered in
              the affirmative. Then when I had spoken 19 minutes and beyond, and the House had just
              granted indefinite time to the gentleman from Lawrence, and when I promised the House
              I would not consume more time, then the gentleman from Jefferson jumped up and
              declared my time expired. The Speaker then directed me to take my seat, and I did so
              under a pressure that would not admit of a word. I was compelled to take my seat at
              the time under such a pressure that perhaps I may have said what I should not have
              said and what I would not have said under other circumstances. I frankly confess that
              the words "I despised the power" were unparliamentary. And they would not have been
              unttered but under the circumstances. This is all the explanation I have to make.
            The SPEAKER. The gentleman will bear in mind that but a few minutes before the chair
              had to bring in the sergeant-at-arms to seat him on account of another matter.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY. I think it is very evident that the words used by the gentleman from
              Marion were used under pressure and great excitement, and I think, when he confesses
              they were unparliamentary and would not have been employed but for the circumstances
              and bad feeling that existed in the House among members, I think he makes a sufficient
              apology to the House, and I hope now, as my friend from Knox has been good enough to
              withdraw the demand for the previous question, that he will now also withdraw his
              motion for censure, and allow us to go on with the business of the House.
            Mr. CAUTHORN asked, and obtained leave, to withdraw his motion.
            Mr. KENNEDY: Blessed is the peace maker. It is a good thing to have peace in this
              matter. We should not use harsh language, but keep cool. For while we are not making
              laws we are making history.
            The SPEAKER: The gentleman is not speaking to any question before the House. The
              question is on the motion to lay the appeal from the gentleman from Marion on the
              table. While a vote was being called the gentleman from Marion desired to explain his
              vote, and the chair refused to hear the gentleman unless by consent of the House. From
              that decision the gentleman from Marion appeals, and the question is: Shall the
              decision of the chair stand as the decision of the House?
            The yeas and mays thereon resulted--yeas 45, nays 29--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Barnaby, Britton, Browning, Bruner, Caldwell.
                    Cauthorn, Coggswell. Copner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Devol, Donham Gallentine,
                    Gentry, Goble, Gordon of Cass, Hardin, Hartley, Hawley, Haynes, Henderson,
                    Holand, Hynes, McDonald McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Minich, Miles, Montgomery,
                    Neff. Oatley, Ray, Rice, Sansberry, Simpson, Shutt, Stanley, Stephens, Tarlton,
                    Taughinbaugh, Taylor, Tebbs, Walker, and Zenor--45.
                  NAYS--Measrs. Beeler, Biggs, Calkins of Porter, Conner,
                    Deputy, Friedley. Hooker, Kennedy, Knight, Major, Martin of Wayne, Millikan,
                    Monroe, Myers, Netherton, Rawles. Rhodes, Ruddell, Sabin, Sayers, Stephenson,
                    Stone, Strickland. White, Williams, Wilson, and Wood--29.
                
              
            
            So the decision of the Chair was sustained.
            Mr. NEFF, Mr. Speaker, I would like to have the vote on the orginal question of
              laying the amendment on the table.
            The CLERK. Mr. Ruddell has not voted.

            

            Mr. RUDDELL. I vote no.
            The SPEAKER. The following is the result of the motion to lay on the tableyeas 40,
              nays 37.
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Barnaby, Britton, Browning, Bruner, Caldwell,
                    Cauthorn, Coggswell, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Devol, Dunham, Gallentine, Gentry,
                    Goble, Gordon of Cass Hardin. Hartley, Hawley, Haynes, Henderson, Holland, Hynes
                    McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Minich, Montgomery, Neff, Rice,
                    Sansberry, Shutt, Stanley, Stephens, Tarlton, Taugbinbaugh, Tebbs, Warrum, and
                    Zenor--40.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Beeler. Biggs. Butterworth, Calkins of Fulton,
                    Calkins of Porter, Conner, Copner, Deputy, Friedley, Gordon of Boone, Hooker,
                    Kennedy, King, Knight, Major, Martin of Wayne, Martin of Putnam, Millikin,
                    Monroe, Myers, Netherton, Rawles, Rhodes, Ruddell, Sabin, Sayers, Snodgrass,
                    Stephenson, Stone, Strickland, Taylor, Washburn, White, Williams, Wilson, Wood
                    and Woodward--37.
                
              
            
            So Mr. Ruddell's motion to amend the journal was laid on the table.
            Mr. STEPHENSON. Mr. Calkins, of Fulton, left the Hall a few moments ago, and
              requested me to have him excused on account of illness.
            It was so ordered.
          
          
            ADJOURNMENT SINE DIE.
            Mr. STONE offered a preamble and concurrent resolution, reciting that the usefulness
              of the present session of the General Assembly is at an end, and proposing adjournment
                sine die.
            It was laid on the table--yeas 66, nays 16.
            Mr. NETHERTON, by leave, presented a petition from citizens of Starke county, with
              reference to their northwestern boundary line, and explained its long standing,
              necessity, and importance; which was referred to the Committee on County and
                Township Business.
            Mr. BIGGS moved for a suspension of the restrictions so as to admit of the final
              consideration of the Senate engrossed Court bill No. 32.
            Mr. WOODARD moved that a railroad bill be included in the motion to suspend.
            Mr. HOLLAND--A Court bill.
            Mr. McDOWELL--The bill [H. R. 202].
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter--The bill [S. 38].
            Mr. GOBLE -The bill [S. 163].
            Mr. Biggs' motion was agreed to, with several propositions included; whereupon--The
              Eighth Circuit Court bill [S. 32] was taken up--and the Committee Amendments changing
              the time in the counties of Brown and Shelby were concurred in; and then the bill was
              finally passed the House yeas, 77; nays, 0.
            On motion of Mr. BROWNING, Messrs. Rhodes, Knight, Sayers and King obtained leave of
              absence till Monday.
            The House then took a recess till 2 o'clock--P. M.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Speaker resumed the Chair at 2 o'clock P. M.
            Mr DEPUTY introduced a bill [H. R 345] for an act fixing the time of holding courts
              in the several counties comprising the first Judicial Circuit of this State, repealing
              all laws, and declaring an emergency--reported by the committee as a substitute for
              the bill [H. R 251.]
            Mr. STONE, in behalf of the Joint Special Committee on the subject of the
                equalization of taxes on real estate and railroads, asked and obtained
              unanimous consent to report a bill [H. R. 346], for an act to provide for annual
              appraisement and equalization for taxation on railroad property within this State.
            Leave of absence was granted to Messrs. Kennedy, Gordon, of Boone, and Walker.
            
              HYDRAULIC COMPANIES.
              Mr. GOBLE called up the engrossed bill [S. 163], to authorize the consolidation of
                hydraulic companies, and prescribing the powers of such companies, (for which a
                suspension was ordered this morning) and it was finally passed the House--yeas 70,
                nays none.
              Mr. McDOWELL called up his Bluffton Charter amendment bill, [H. R. 202,] and it was
                finally passed the House--yeas 64, nays 6.
              Mr. WHITE called up the bill, [S.152,] to extend the time for the completion of
                railroads in this State whose time has been heretofore extended and the roads not
                yet finished--which was considered on the third reading.
              Mr. MACK, (Mr. White in the Chair,) explained that this bill would apply especially
                to those holding the rights and interests of the old Indiana and Illinois Central
                Railroad Company; but the parties expecting funds for their work from the French,
                and that resource having failed on account of the European war, they needed this
                extension of time.
              The bill was finally passed the House by yeas 69, nays 0.
            
            
              DRAINAGE BILL.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, called up the engrossed bill [S. 48] supplemental to the
                act of 1869, to authorise the construction of levees dykes, drains, etc, (which was
                included in the suspension this morning,) and it was considered on the second and
                third readings.
              Mr. CALKINS having succeeded in the repeal of the odious corporation drainage law
                of 1869, and having with others gone before the Senate Committee charged with this
                supplemental bill, and succeeded in removing some of the objections in the original
                draft, he would ask the House to vote for it though he was obliged to confess that
                it does not extend all the relief which might be desired.
              Mr. NETHERTON. Mr. Speaker, when we had before this House recently a bill for the
                repeal of what is known as the Draining Law of 1869, I supported the repeal of said
                law, firmly believing its provisions unjust to the people interested most deeply in
                its operations; and I had hoped that in lieu of said ditching law we should have had
                one enacted this session- a law which in its provisions would have been more just to
                the interests of all parties than I conceive the pending supplemental act to be; but
                thinking that it contains some features which may  furnish to the owners of the lands proposed to be
                drained under the operation of the law, and in view of the fact now clearly evident
                that we can at this session in all probability get no better law than the bill now
                before the House, I shall vote for it as apparently the best we can do, and hope it
                may receive the support of the members of this House, as the improvement it proposes
                to the law of 1869 is evidently the beat we can get under the present circumstances
                and surroundings.
              Messrs. COX, TAYLOR and BUTTERWORTH addressed the House to the same purpose.
              The bill failed to pass the House yeas 49, nays 18 for lack of the Constitutional
                majority of 51.
            
            
              DOORKEEPER'S EMPLOYEES.
              Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, called up his motion to reconsider the vote concurring in
                the report of the Judiciary Committee, with reference to certain employees of the
                doorkeeper, and after some time spent thereupon, the subject was passed over
                informally.
              On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS, it was ordered that when the House adjourn to-day, it
                shall be till Monday, 2 o'clock P. M.
              On his farther motion, the several mem-bers of the Committees on Prisons obtained
                leaves of absence till Tuesday.
              Mr. STONE, frem the Special Joint Committee on Railroad
                taxation, returned a petition of sundry citizens of Parke county asking
                relief from assessments for Railroad aid; and the Committee was discharged from its
                further consideration.
              He also returned Mr. Taylor's bill [H. R. 320] for an act requiring railroad
                companies and other corporations and persons owning manufacturing machinery and
                other property to list the same for taxation recommending that it be laid on the
                table--the subject therein contained being embodied in a bill now pending.
              The report was concurred in.
              On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. Calkins, of Porter's bill [H. R. 296] touching the
                consolidation of railroads &c.--now before the Committee on
                  Railroads--was ordered to be reported to the House on the 20th of
                February.
              Mr. McDONALD submitted a resolution for the discharge of all the Committee Clerks
                except Messrs. Clark, Wolf and H. R. Wilson, pending which--
              The House adjourned till Monday, at 2 o'clock P. M.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            MONDAY, February 20, 1871.
          
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR took the Chair and commanded order--at 2 o'clock P. M.
          Chaplain service was conducted by Rev. J. C. SMITH, of the Meridian Street Methodist
            Episcopal Church, of the city of Indianapolis.
          The Secretary's minutes of the proceedings commenced on Friday morning and continuing
            until Saturday noon were read.
          Leave of absence was asked and obtained for Messrs. Steele, Brown and Hubbard till
            to-morrow morning.
          
            FISH PROTECTION.
            Mr. BRADLEY moved to suspend the order of business for the purpose of considering the
              Fish Protection bill, H. R. 271.
            The yeas and nays were demanded and being ordered and taken--The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR
              announced the result--yeas, 28; nays, 5--no quorum voting.
            Pending the roll-call.
            Mr. HOOPER explained his negative vote by declaring this a pernicious way of doing
              business, and giving notice that from this time forward he should vote against a
              suspension of the constitutional rule.
            Upon the announcement of the vote just taken, Mr. HOOPER moved that the Senate
              adjourn.
            The motion was rejected, by yeas 8, nays 27.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR, by consent, directed the call of the roll on the yeas and nays
              on Mr. Bradley's motion to be continued. When completed the result was announced. Yeas
              26, nays 8. So the order of business was suspended accordingly--
            The bill [H. R. 271] providing for the protection of fish, was read the first
              time.
            Mr. MARTINDALE very much desired to see this bill pass, and knowing of no Senator
              opposed to it, he moved for a suspension of the constitutional rules, that it may be
              passed.
            Mr. DENBO objecting--
            Mr. MARTINDALE acknowledging that one objection would be fatal to the motion--there
              being only 34 Senators present-just the number required by the Constitution to suspend
              the constitutional restriction--withdrew his motion.
            The bill passed to the second reading.
            Mr. HOOPER made the point of order that it was not competent to continue the roll
              call which showed no quorum till the pending motion was carried, alter the
              announcement was made that no quorum was voting.
            The LIEUTENANT Governor directed the Clerk to enter two lists of yeas and nays on the
              journal, in accordance with the facts in the case.
          
          
            REVENUE FOR 1871-2.
            Mr. WILLIAMS, stating that the revenue bills were reported from the House and that
              early action thereon was necessary, desired a suspension of the order of business that
              they may be taken up, and considered now.
            Mr. DWIGGINS objecting--
            Mr. WILLIAMS did not insist upon his motion.
          
          
            TWENTY-EIGHTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
            Mr. GLESSNER asked that the House amendments to the 28th Judicial District bill be
              considered and concurred in.
            Objections being made Mr. GLESSNER moved to suspend the order of business for this
              purpose.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 28, nays 6.
            The House amendments to his bill [S. 32], affecting the Courts in Brown and Shelby
              counties were read and concurred in.
          
          
            SIXTEENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
            Mr. DWIGGINS moved for a suspenses of the order of business, that the bill [H. R.
              137], affecting his Judicial District may to read the first time.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 30, nays 4.
            Accordingly the bill [H. R. 137] to fix the time of holding the Court of Common Pleas
              in the 16th Judicial District of this State, was read the first time and passed to the
              second reading.
            Mr. DWIGGINS stating that the bill was of great importance to his section of the  State, desired a, dispensation for the purpose of
              passsing it.
            Objections were made, and--
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR stated that one objection would be fatal to the motion: There
              being a bare quorum present.
          
          
            DISTRIBUTION OF THE SINKING FUND.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved to suspend the order of business for the purpose of taking up
              the bill [H. R. 266] to amend section 6 of the act to provide for the management of
              the sinking fund, so that it may be loaned in the several counties of the State.
            The motion was agreed to, and the bill was read the second time.
            Mr. MARTINDALE declared this was not his choice for such a bill, but unless it was
              passed this fund would be idle for two years, and he appealed to Senators that no
              objection be made to its passage to-day.
            Mr. GLESSNER moved to strike out "$4,000" where it occurs and insert $10,000 in lieu,
              so that whenever the latter sum accumulates it shall be distributed. To divide 4,000
              among the 92 counties of the State, the express charges would probably amount to a
              large proportion of the sum the smaller counties may receive. Notice has to be given
              to each county Auditor when monies are ready for distribution and other forms had to
              be observed, consequently this amendment would save a good deal of trouble for the
              small sum which a division of $4,000 amongst the 92 counties would leave.
            Mr. BOBO moved to amend the amendment by way of a substitute providing that at the
              settlement of the County Treasurers with the Auditor of State, said fund shall be
              distributed. Then there would be no expense incurred by the distribution whether the
              sum be five dollars or five thousand dollars.
            Mr. SCOTT declared this latter amendment a proper one, and hoped it would be
              adopted.
            Mr. GLESSNER withdrew his amendment.
            Mr. MARTINDALE thought all this money should be left at Indianapolis, but would vote
              for this bill in order that it may be passed here without amendment, for fear no
              better bill could be had.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. I see no benefit to be derived by the adoption of the substitute;
              indeed it is certainly very objectionable for it would leave the money lying here an
              indefinite length of time.
            Mr. DENBO wanted to know whether the provisions of this bill or the present law would
              allow the County Treasurer or Auditor to come to Indianapolis after this money and
              charge mileage.
            Mr. MARTINDALE. This bill makes no change in the law as to that.
            Mr. SCOTT. Then the County Treasurers can get no mileage. As this session is getting
              pretty near the close this bill must be passed, if at all, it seemed to him, without
              amendment. The bill suited him well enough as it is for the present, but he thought in
              two years it would need amendment. He hoped it would be allowed to pass without going
              back to the House, for it may never see daylight again if it does.
            Mr. GRAY had examined this bill and talked with the Superintendent of Public
              Instruction, with the Governor and with a good many business men about it, but had not
              spoken with a single man who knows anything about it outside of the Legislature, but
              what disapproves of the bill. Not only that but the amount provided to be
              distributed$4,000is entirely too small, and he must be pardoned for saying he thought
              that part of the bill foolish. That sum distributed among the ninety-two counties
              would make an average of about $42 62 1/2 to each county, and if the county officers
              are allowed no mileage they will not come here for the money, and the money is
              transmitted in no other way. If this bill should become a law you may see about
              $12,000 expended for the purpose of distributing $4,000.
            Mr. BOBO, in view of the fact that this is a House bill, and that there are only ten
              days left of this session, and that other important measures are demanding attention,
              withdrew his substitute.
            Mr. HOOPER moved to strike out "eight," and insert in lieu thereof "seven" per cent.
              as the rate of interest. One of the objects in distributing this money among the
              several counties is that the people may have the benefit of it--it is a popular loan,
              in other words. The additional expense incurred by the borrower in the way of paying
              for the certificate, the mortgage, etc., makes the rate of interest very near the
              usual rate.
            Mr. DWIGGINS thought this fund should bring as great a rate of interest as bankers
              and other money lenders gat, and if he were to offer an amendment to this part of the
              bill, he would put it at 10 per cent. at least. If a man cannot borrow money for less
              than ten per cent at bank, there is no reason why he should not pay that amount of
              interest to the school fund. Money is worth more than eight per cent. He replied to
              the plea not to change the rate from seven to eight per cent., by referring to the
              fact that prices of everything has come up in the last few years. He regarded money as
              a thing of commerce, and this matter of money lending is simply a matter of contract.
              He opposed any amendment to this bill at this time. If gentlemen wait until they get a
              bill to suit every Senator on this floor, we might wait through a ten month's session
              in vain. Why have not Senators discovered how much it cost to distribute the school
              fund before?
            Mr. GRAY. It was discovered in 1867, and this fund was drawn in from the several
              counties at the time.
            Mr. DWIGGINS inquired what expense the county of Randolph will be to in having this
              money sent there.
            Mr. GRAY replied: The officers of his county would not come down here at their own
              expense; and he would like to know how it will be transmitted without expense.
            Mr. DWIGGINS. The State Auditor wouldsimply drop a note the County Auditor, and  would send the money as directed. But it is
              probably not necessary that a dollar should be passed, for these officers are all the
              time doing business, and their accounts, if necessary, can be made to run till their
              regular semi-yearly settlements. There will be no trouble about the transmission of
              this money, he was sure. He desired this money loaned that the School Fund may be
              increased to the extent of the interest that should be realized from it year after
              year. He did not wish to see this bill amended because he honestly believed if it was
              amended, and had to go back to the House of Representatives, it never would become a
              law. When we pass this bill we will have done the very best thing that has been done
              this session, and he hoped the amendments would fail, and every Senator would vote for
              the bill.
            Mr. GREEN understood this bill to be similar to the law of 1857. For ten years after
              the passage of that law this sinking fund was scatteted through the counties of the
              State. In 1867 there was a law passed calling this fund in and investing it in the
              outstanding stocks of the State. Over three millions of dollars have been invested,
              and the fund is now larger than the bonds outstanding, as he understood, by some
              $500,-000. This bill provides that we go back to the principle of the old law. In the
              county where he lived there was a good deal of it loaned, and he never heard of any
              mileage being charged for the loan of that money and he had a good deal to do with
              getting it into the hands of poor men desiring to borrow it. With regard to the motion
              to increase the rate of interest, he thought it better to put all the school fund at 8
              per cent. He hoped the amendment would fail.
            Mr. SCOTT also understood that all the 2 1/2 and 5 per cent. stocks have been taken
              up by this fund that can be procured, and that this bill is simply to revise the old
              law in the matter of the investment of this fund.
            Mr. WILLIAMS thought there was certainly no man in the State who would object to
              paying eight per cent. if he wanted money at all. He then proceeded to recite the
              history of this matter. In 1867 the present law was passed to purchase with this fund
              the 2 1/2 and 5 per cent. bonds of the State. But few of them have been purchased in
              the last several years, and there is now quite a sum of money lying idle. This law was
              regarded as a good one--as a preventative against fraud and corruption in the
              management of the fund by placing it in a non-negotiable bond. The bill was similar to
              the law enacted in 1859, or rather amendatory of the present law. He hoped the bill
              would be passed without amendment.
            Mr. HOOPER replied to the objection that time would be lost if this bill were
              amended, by saying that the Honse could concur in a Senate amendment in five
              minutes--it need not take more time.
            The amendment was rejected by yeas 16, nays 19.
            Mr. GLESSNER explaining his negative vote by saying that he was in favor of 7 and not
              8 per cent., but as it has been suggested that there is risk in amending the bill, he
              should vote "no" with the hope that a supplemental bill may be got through this
              session that will releive this bill of some objectionable feature.
            Mr. GRAY voted "aye" for the purpose of perfecting this bill as much as possible.
            Mr. DWIGGINS moved that the bill be passed to the third reading, and upon this motion
              he demanded the previous question.
            Mr. ROSEBRUGH proposed a substitute for the bill, which was read for information,that
              the Sinking Fund shall be loaned as the College fund, with a provision that no greater
              sum shall be loaned than $1,000 at a time.
            The demand for the previous question being insisted upon--
            The Senate seconded the demand on a division, affirmative 22, negative not
              counted,The bill was ordered engrossed for the 3d reading.
          
          
            GRAVEL ROAD ASSESSMENTS.
            Mr. ROBINSON presented a petition from citizens of Decatur county in favor of a
              passage of a law enabling gravel road corporations to perfect assessments.
            It was referred to the Committee on Rights and Privileges.
          
          
            STATE REVENUE FOR 1871 AND 1872.
            On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS the bill [H. R. 343] to raise revenue for State purposes
              for the years 1871 and 1872, and subsequent years--five cents on each $100 of
              valuation, and fifty cents on each poll--was read the first time.
            Mr. WILLIAMS also moved for a dispensation of the constitutional restriction, that
              the bill may be read twice again and put on its passage now.
            The motion was rejected by yeas 28, nays 7--two-thirds not voting in the affirmative
              as required by a constitutional provision.
            Mr. DWIGGINS made an ineffectual motion to suspend the order of business that he
              might introduce a bill.
          
          
            TAX REPEAL BILL.
            On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS the bill (H. R. 342) to repeal all laws authorizing the
              collection of any tax for State debt sinking fund purposes was read the first
              time.
            Mr. GLESSNER moved to suspend the constitutional rule that this bill may be put upon
              its passage now.
            The motion was rejected, by yeas 29,nays 5two-thirds not voting in the
              affirmative.
          
          
            UNMARKED PUBLIC SQUARES.
            Mr. GREEN moved to suspend the order of business and take up his bill [S.180] to
              apprpriate for common school purposes such squares as are not marked for special
              purposes--saying it was applicable only to a locality in his district.
            The motion was agreed to and the bill being read the third time--
            The vote on its passage discovering no quorum presEnt--
            An ineffectual motion was made to adjourn.
            The roll-call on the vote on the passage of  the
              bill was continued till the vote was reported--yeas, 27; nays, 7.
            So the bill passed.
          
          
            FISH PROTECTION.
            Mr. MARTINDALE moved for a supension of the Constitutional rules that the fish
              protection bill [H. R. 171] be put upon its passage now.
            The motion was rejected by yeas, 31; nays, 4-two-thirds not voting in the
              affirmative.
          
          
            SALARY OF AGENT OF STATE.
            On motion by Mr. HENDERSON, the rules were suspended, and the bill [H. R. 265]
              amending the act fixing the compensation of State Agents was taken up and read the
              third time.
            It allows for services and all incidental expenses, an annual compensation of
              $500.
            The vote on this bill resulted yeas 34, nays 2--pending which--
            Mr. DENBO, when his name was called, said he believed that this office should be
              abolished, and the people ought to be saved this expense of $500, but for fear we can
              not abolish the office, and the Agent of State would cost $5,000 a year, he would
              accept of this bill and vote "aye "Mr. Gray's explanation was not excepted.
            Mr. MARTINDALE, in explanation of his vote, said he had no doubt the office ought to
              be abolished, but as there seems to be a disposition to place the salary at so low a
              sum, it may be just as well to do so, and he should vote for the bill.
            Mr. SCOTT, when his name was called, said he believed that $500 was no compensation
              for the duties imposed by the law upon the Agent of State, he had no hesitation in
              voting against the bill.
            The vote was then announced as above recorded.
            So the bill passed the Senate.
          
          
            SESSION HOURS.
            On motion it was--
            Ordered, That when the Senate adjourn, it adjourn to meet at 9
              o'clock to-morrow.
          
          
            TWENTY-SIXTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
            Mr. GREGG moved to suspend the order of business and take up the bill [H. R. 167] on
              the first reading.
            The motion was agreed to, and the bill [H. R. 167] to amend sections 1 and 2 of the
              act creating the 26th Judicial Circuit, and fixing the times of holding courts in the
              4th Judicial Circuit, was read the first time and passed to the second reading.
          
          
            FALLS PILOTS.
            On motion of Mr. KEIGWIN, the bill [H. R. 19] to authorize the City Council of
              Jeffersonville to appoint pilots was taken from the table and placed on the files.
          
          
            FIRST JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
            On motion by Mr. ROSEBRUGH, the rules were suspended and the bill [H. R. 345] fixing
              the time of holding courts in the First Judicial Circuit was read the first time. The
              counties of Ripley, Jennings, Jefferson, Switzerland are affected by the provisions of
              this bill.
            Mr. ROSEBRUGH, at the unanimous request of the bar of the district, and inasmuch as
              the court in one of these counties commences next Monday, moved for a dispensation of
              the constitutional restriction that the bill may be pressed to the third and final
              reading to-day. And he appealed to Senators that no objection be made, he having
              uniformly voted heretofore in favor of similar motions.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 34, nays 0.
            The bill [H. R. 345], was read by title only for the second reading, then again by
              sections, and finally passed the Senate by yeas 34, nays 0.
          
          
            GEO. L. AND MARY B. REITER.
            On motion of Mr. MILLER the order of business was suspended and the bill [H. R. 185],
              for relief of Geo. L. Reiter and Mary B. Reiter, was read the first time.
            Mr. MILLER moved for a dispensation of the constitutional restriction that the bill
              may be pressed to the final vote now.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 35, nays 0.
            It was read by title, again by sections and passed the Senate--yeas 34, nays 0.
          
          
            AID TO RAILROADS.
            Mr. TAYLOR moved to suspend the order of business and take up the bill [S. 174], to
              amend section 12 of the county and township aid railroad act of May 12, 1869, so as to
              distribute the stock amongst the tax payers in proportion to the tax paid as shown by
              seperate tax receipt. The motion was agreed to and the bill read the third time.
            Mr. JOHNSTON raised the point of order that similar bills were indefinitely postponed
              this session, and the subject matter connected with it, on the recommendation of a
              committee.
            Mr. TAYLOR stated that the Senator was mistaken. The Committee on
                Corporations reported adversely on bills absolutely repealing the law.
            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR overruled the point of order--this being a bill simply to amend
              the law.
            Mr. JOHNSTON then moved to refer the bill to a select committee, with instructions to
              report the bill back with a proviso to this effect, provided this act shall not apply
              to counties or townships making donations, but it shall apply only to counties or
              townships taking stock.
            Mr. GLESSNER regarded this as a very important bill, and argued in favor of its
              passage. He hoped it would not be recommitted, and that the bill would pass without
              further delay.
            Mr. DWIGGINS also favored the passage of the bill. It was certainly equitable and
              just in its provisions, and he hoped the motion would not prevail.
            Mr. JOHNSTON said, if tne bill really intends to have the stock put into the hands of
              the tax payers, his amendment would not affect the bill; but he was fearful if the
              bill passes without amendment, the tax payer will apply for tax receipts and also for
              stock  where donations are made, and make
              trouble.
            Mr. GREEN said the bill only is applicable to counties and townships that vote to
              take stock--where there is a donation they don't issue any stock. He was willing to
              accept the amendment, as far as he was concerned.
            Pending the consideration of this amendment--
            The Senate adjourned till 9 o'clock tomorrow morning.
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            MONDAY, February 20, 1871.
          
          The House met at 2 o'clock, P. M., pursuant to adjournment Saturday.
          The journal of Saturday was read and approved, till--
          On motion of Mr. HARTLEY, the further reading of the journal was dispensed with.
          On motion of Mr. FURNAS, the Committee on Public Buildings obtained
            leave of absence for the day.
          
            COMMITTEE CLERKS.
            The SPEAKER returned to the unfinished business, viz: McDonald's resolution for the
              discharge of Committee Clerks, excepting Messrs. Clark, Wolf and Wilson. The question
              being on Mr. Minich's amendment to except only Clark and Wilson, it was withdrawn.
            Mr. McDONALD said he had introduced the resolution upon information, and in good
              faith.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, was favorable to the resolution, but desired to retain the
              Clerk of the Committee on Claims.
            Mr. McDONALD was willing to retain that clerk.
            Mr. STEPHENSON. Does the resolution dispense with the Judiciary Committee's
              Messenger. He indicated an amendment to exclude the messenger.
            It was passed over informally.
          
          
            CERTAIN EMPLOYEES OF THE DOORKEEPER.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, called up again his motion to reconsider the vote concerning
              the Judiciary Committee's report fixing the allowance of the appointees of the
              Doorkeeper, excepting his first assistant at $3 per day. He showed the law allowing
              these assistants $5 per day; and alleged the irregularity and unsoundness of the
              construction upon which the pay of these assistants are sought to be reduced to $3 per
              day.
            Mr. McDONALD said the Speaker had passed upon the law in this case. He read the law:
              "The employes of the the doorkeepers (of the Senate and House) and the pages $3 per
              day." His sympathies were with the employes, but in the construction of law his
              sympathies were in abeyance. There were four classes of the police of the General
              Assembly contemplated in this law, and their compensations were clearly fixed The
              construction of the Senate had no influence on his mind. It was competent, perhaps for
              the Committee on Employes to settle who are employes and who
              assistants.
            Mr. BROWNING took the law to allow $5per day to all employes of the Doorkeeper. The
              best lawyers of the Senate have concluded from these statutes--some two or three of
              them--and given the interpretation (which has been acted on, with one or two
              exceptions, in the House) that all the employes of the Doorkeeper shall receive $5 a
              day. The law which the gentleman read was imperfect as to title--a part of the General
              Legislative Appropriation bill.
            Mr. NEFF intimated that this construction has been settled by a resolution of the
              House.
            Mr. BROWNING and Mr. GORDON of Cass insisted that the law in the case could not be
              overrode by a resolution of the House--the former proceeding at some length to set
              forth the reasonableness and justice of the law.
            Mr. ZENOR complained of gentlemen denying the constitutionality of a law to carry a
              point, when the law has already been acted on.
            Mr. COPNER demanded the previous question, and there was a second.
            The SPEAKER remarking that the considerations taken by the gentleman from Putnam,
              (Mr. Martin,) and the gentleman from Brown, (Mr. Browning,) were worthy of
              attention--
            The yeas and nays being demanded, and ordered on the main question: Shall the vote be
              reconsidered? it was decided in the affirmative--yeas 54, nays 15--Mr. ABBET stating
              that it would be his preference to have this legal question referred to a committee of
              farmers.
            So the vote was reconsidered,and the question recurred on the concurrence in the
              report from the Judiciary Committee.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter moved to recommit the report with instructions to report $5
              per day, excepting messengers.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, saw no need of reference.
            Mr. McDONALD was willing to take up and concur in the report of the
                Committee on Employes, which gives the six doorkeepers and
              assistants $5 a day.
            On motion of Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, the Judiciary Committee's report was laid on the
              table by unanimous consent.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, then submitted a resolution that the employes of the
              Doorkeeper each receive $5 per day, except the messenger.
            Mr. McDONALD proposed to amend by saying: The assistant doorkeepers shall be allowed
              $5 a day, and the employes $3 per day.
            Mr. NEFF moved to lay the matter on the table.
            Mr. BIGGS demanded the yeas and nays, but did not press it.
            The motion was rejected.
            Mr. COPNER proposed a substitute, to the same purport of Mr. Martin, of Putnam's,
              proposition, which was adopted. It declares that the statutes allowed $5 a day to the
              doorkeeper and his assistants, and that the Speaker draw his warrants accordingly.

            

            The resolution, as thus amended, was then adopted--yeas 47, nays 17.
          
          
            GETTYSBURG CEMETERY.
            Mr. STONE submitted a joint resolution in relation to the transfer of the national
              cemetery at Gettysburg to the General Government.
            Mr. STONE explained as to this State's appropriation and interest in that cemetery,
              and the general law of Congress to place all such cemeteries under national
              supervision, which is regarded as the most satisfactory; and that now when
              Pennsylvania shall yield her assent, it will become a national cemetery.
            The resolution was adopted--yeas 67, nays 0.
          
          
            TIPPECANOE BATTLEGROUND.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter, (by unanimous consent) submitted a resolution, which was
              adopted, that the Committee on Ways and Means be instructed to make
              suitable provisions for the fencing and preservation of the Tippecanoe Battleground,
              it now being in a state of dilapidation.
          
          
            FOREIGN IMMIGRATION.
            Mr.HARDIN submitted a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                Committee on Statistics and Emigration to inquire into the
              expediency of enacting a law to encourage foreign immigration into this State, and the
              appointment of agents for this purpose in the Northern and Southern portions of the
              State.
            Mr. GORDON, of Cass, presented a claim, which was referred without reading.
            Mr. DAVIDSON asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill [H. R. 347] for an act
              defining what counties shall constitute the Ninth, Eleventh, Twelfth and Twenty-ninth
              Judicial Circuits, and fixing the times of holding courts therein.
            It was referred to a Special Committee, namely: Messrs. Davidson, Calkins of Porter,
              Washburn, Wymer, Gallentine, Wood, and Calkins of Fulton.
          
          
            THE CALENDAR.
            The Senate amendments to Mr. Hines' Railroad bill [H. R. 79] were taken up and
              concurred in.
          
          
            COMMITTEE CLERKS.
            On motion of Mr. HOLLAND, the House returned to the consideration of Mr. McDonald's
              resolution to discharge the Clerks of the Standing Committees, with four
              exceptions--the question being on Mr. Wiles' motion to strike out all but one, which
              motion he subsequently withdrew.
            Mr. COPNER considered that the House had already passed a resolution under which
              committees were obliged to discharge their clerks as soon as their services can be
              dispensed with.
            Mr. BIGGS submitted an amendment to discharge the messenger to the Judiciary
              Committee.
            On motion of Mr. KENNEDY, the subject was laid on the table.
          
          
            THE CALENDAR.
            Mr. Warrum's common carriers' railroad bill [H. R. 51], coming up on the second
              reading, it was made the special order for Friday 10 o'clock.
            On motion of Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, his railroad bill was included in the same
              order.
            Mr. ST. JOHN'S bill (H. R. 114) requiring Boards of County Commissisners to publish
              statements of expenditures and allowances quarterly, coming up with the committee
              amendments striking out "quarterly" and inserting appropriately "also the heading of
              all contracts, to whom let and the amount agreed upon; provided said printing shall
              not exceed 5 cents a line of closely printed matter."
            Mr. NEFF said the salary bill which we have passed there is a provision that the
              comissioners shall make these statements, and I think it would be well to indefinitely
              postpone this bill.
            Mr. KENNEDY. That bill does not cover all we want. This bill is for the publication
              of what the people want to know.
            The SPEAKER. The question is on the amendments.
            Mr. BRITTON. If we strike out the word "quarterly" how often will they publish?
            Mr. KENNEDY. As often as they meet. The amendments were concurred in and so the bill
              was ordered to be engrossed.
            Mr. Cauthorn's bill [H. R. 178] to amend the 51st section of the city corporation
              act.
            Mr. Kennedy's private roadway bill [H. R. 193], were ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. McDowell's general election's bill, [H. R. 203], as substituted by the committee,
              coming up with the amendments heretofore adopted and recommended by the Committee of
              the Whole House--said amendments were concurred in.
            On motion of Mr. WILSON the words "and other courts," were appropriately inserted so
              as to embrace the Superior Court.
            Mr. Barnaby's Coal Measure bill [H. R. 112];
            Mr. Caldwell's County Surveyor's Lien bill [H. R. 214];
            Mr. Strickland's bill [H. R. 218] to confirm and make valid sales of real estate by
              trustees, and foreign and domestic executors;
            Mr. William's Liquor bill [H. R. 221];
            Mr. Myers' Justice's Dockets bill [H. R. 222];
            Mr. St. John's School Money bill [H. R. 223];
            Mr. Conner's Noblesville Legalization bill [H. R. 225];
            Mr. Cunningham's school bill [H. R. 92] were severally read, and passed to the
              engrossment.
            Mr. BIGG'S bill [H. R. 230] to amend section 420 of the practice act, was read the
              second time.
            Mr. BIGG'S said that the amendment which it proposed to the land was a proviso, that
              all judgments rendered upon contracts for services or labor performed in pursuance of
              any contract there shall be no stay of execution allowed.
            Mr. McDONALD was opposed to it. A man's labor is no better than his money.

            

            The bill was ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. Rawles' bill [H. R 233] to amend sections 453, 455, and repeal sections 445 to
              451 inclusive of the practice act.
            Mr. Ruddell's bill [H. R. 235] to amend the act to provide a treasury system.
            Mr. Washburn's drugs and medicines bill [H. R. 245] (with the emergency clause
              stricken out) were ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. Stephenson's bill [H. R. 253] for Auditors' distribution of monies arising from
              insurance companies comin up--
            Mr. NEFF made an ineffectual motion to lay it on the table.
            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.
            Mr. Calkins of Fulton's bill [H. R. 193], for the publication of County
              Commissioners' proceedings, coming up--
            Mr. C. submitted an amendment, that said publications be made in each of the
              political newspapers printed in the county.
            Mr. RHODES would have the publications in all the papers of the county.
            Mr. McDONALD. One paper is enough.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter, considering the low price of five cents a line, the objection
              is most futile.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, insisted upon fairness and equality in the matter. He would
              have no partizanship connected with it.
            Mr. HOLLAND arrested a discussion on a point of order that the voting has already
              commenced.
            The SPEAKER (Mr. Cunningham in the Chair) sustained the point, and Mr. Calkins'
              amendment was adopted.
            So the bill was ordered to be engrossed.
            Mr. Taylor's bill [H. R. 208] to promote the science of medicine and surgery coming
              up with the Committee amendments, striking out $50 and inserting $500, and inserting
              in the 2d section "or in counties where there are no health officers, by the Coroner,"
              and a clause making violation a penalty and punishable with imprisonment from one to
              five years.
            Mr. BIGGS moved to amend the bill by striking out the enacting clause.
            Mr. TAYLOR defended the provisions of the bill explaining its justice and
              necessity.
            Mr. NEFF said the bill was too sweeping in its character.
            Mr. FURNAS also hesitated about the wisdom of its passage for the same reason, but he
              would like to have something of the kind passed into a law.
            Mr. BIGGS urged several objections--as to the claim which it authorizes upon the
              bodies of strangers dying in the State.
            Mr. Taylor read the provision which protects them where they are claimed within
              twenty-four hours, and where there is the request to be exempt from such claims.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, was also opposed to removing so completely the protection of
              law from those unfortunate creatures of humanity, that unless some paper be found on
              the body or it be claimed by some friend, it shall be given up to dissection.
            Mr. TAYLOR said there is a provision that no traveler shall be given up.
            Mr. CALKINS of Fulton would rather let the law stand as it has for the last fifty
              years, and let medical science take care of itself; let the darkness cover up the
              means of obtaining subjects for anatomical demonstrations. They are too horrible for
              the light.
            Mr. GORDON, of Boone, also opposed the bill.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM demanded the previous question, and under its pressure Mr. Biggs'
              motion was agreed to.
            So the bill was rejected.
            Mr. DAVIDSON, from the Committee on Canals (by unanimons consent)
              returned the memorials communicated by the Governor, and Mr. Cox's resolution with
              reference to the old internal improvement bonds, reporting the expression of opinion
              that legislator thereon is not advisable, and that the further consideration of the
              subject be indefinitely postponed.
            Mr. TAYLOR'S bill (H. R. 121) to exempt two month's wages or salary from garnishment
              was read the second time, with the committee amendment providing that this act shall
              not apply to cases of garnishment where there is presumption of fraud.
            The amendment was concurred in and so the bill was ordered to be engrossed.
            Mr. FURNAS' bill [H. R. 94] creating the office of Entomologist with $2,000 salary
              and $500 expenses; coming up with the committee amendments; "the State Board of
              Agriculture to elect and the Governor to commission."
            Mr. HAYNES proposed to strike out the enacting clause.
            Mr. FURNAS would like to see the bill pass and try the experiment for two years. It
              is a proposition in the interest of fruit growers and the owners of ornamental
              grounds. The fruit growers especially look to this bill for protection; and it was not
              alone for their advantage. It was in the interest of every man who likes a good apple.
              Almost all our fruits are being attacked more and more by destructive insects. In four
              or five States where they have employed entomologists, the experiment has uniformly
              gained the favor of the people. Such a law has been in operation in Illinois for a
              number of years, and in every State where the experiment has been made it has never
              been surrendered.
            Mr MACK (Mr. Goble in the chair) indorsed the considerations taken by Mr. Furnas; and
              there were other considerations in favor of this bill. He did not know how far the
              Colorado bug has gone, but mentioned a field in his neighborhood where there was not a
              potato top left in their season. He lived in a town where they eat watermelons, and it
              is a grave question there how to protect their watermellon vines, which are very
              generally destroyed in the absence of proper attention to them. Some of the
              watermelons grow well where they happen to know how to protect them from enemies. One
              of  his neighbors told him the secret, but made
              him promise not to tell it again. He only alluded to these matters as suggestive of
              the importance of this bill. He regarded it himself as a fair subject for trial, and
              would be willing to invest $2,500 a year to try this public experiment for the next
              two years.
            Mr. HAYNES said in many cases it would be just as wise to legislate against the frost
              as the bugs.
            Mr. TAYLOR considered that this bill stands on the same basis of propriety and
              economy with the law authorizing the State Geologis.
            Mr. KENNEDY was in favor of the bill. It might determine some economical way of
              destroying the humbug. [Laughter.]
            Mr. FURNAS insisted that the bill was worthy of consideration. Let it be ordered to
              the engrossment; and let the House at least think about it.
            Mr. HAYNES withdrew the motion to strike out the enacting clause.
            Mr. DEFREES moved to strike out $2,500 and insert "$1,500" in lieu.
            Mr. FURNAS said the money was little enough for a competent man and acceptable
              service.
            Mr. TAYLOR. If you would employ a talented man you must pay him. A poor entomologist
              would not be worth anything.
            The amendment was rejected and then the bill was ordered to be engrossed.
            The SPEAKER announced the special committee on the Congressional Apportionment bill,
              namely: Messrs. Browning, Heilman, Barnaby, Strickland, Martin of Wayne, Miles,
              Rhodes, Cox, McDowell, McDonald and Wood.
            And then, at 6 o'clock, the House adjourned.
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            TUESDAY, February 21, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 9 o'clock--the LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR in the Chair.
          No one appearing to offer prayer--
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read, when--
          Mr. SCOTT stated that he had some affidavits of Mr. Burson and his counsel which he
            desired to have read for information.
          Mr. BROWN objecting--
          Mr. SCOTT moved to suspend the order of business for the purpose of allowing these
            papers to be read for information. These affidavits contradict some of the statements
            made by witnesses in this case, he said.
          The yeas and nays were demanded and being ordered and taken resulted yeas 20, nays
            24--as follows:
          
            
              
                YEAS--Messrs. Andrews. Beardsley, Caven, Dwiggins, Fosdick,
                  Collett, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard, Martindale, Miller, Robinson,
                  Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--20.
                NAYS--Messrs. Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown, Bird,
                  Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittermore, Dougherty, Elliott, Francisco, Fuller,
                  Glessner, Gregg, Henderson, Johnson, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan, Rosebrugh, Straud,
                  and Williams--24.
              
            
          
          Pending which--
          Messrs. Bradley, Dwiggins, Harper, Hubbard, Johnston, Martindale, Roseburg, Scott,
            Steele, Wood and Lasselle, explained their votes.
          So the Senate refused to suspend the order of business.
          Mr. GREY asked but failed to obtain consent to offer a resolution that the Hon. John W.
            Burson be sworn at the bar of the Senate and permitted to give his testimony in the case
            now pending before the Senate.
          The LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR now--at 10:23 o'clock--announced the consideration of the case
            of the Senator from Delaware, by agreement made last Saturday.
          Mr. HENDERSON withdrew his pending demand for the previous question.
          Mr. BROWN addressed the Senate in favor of the adoption of the majority report
            submitted by the special committee.
          Mr. STEELE then took the floor, arguing in support of the minority report, which
            declares that Mr. Burson is entitled to a seat on the floor as Senator from the counties
            of Delaware and Madison, till On motion, the Senate took a recess for dinner.
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR resumed the Chair at 2 o'clock P.M.
            Mr. STEELE proceeded with his argument till he had consumed his allotted time, two
              hours.
            Mr. BROWN then closed in a speech of one hour and a quarter, demanding the previous
              question before he took his seat.
            The demand was seconded by 22 Senators, and under the operation of the previous
              question the minority report was rejected by yeas 21, nays 24.
            The question recurring upon the adoption of the following resolution, reported by the
              majority of the committee:
            
              
                
                  WHEREAS, Section 6 of Article 10 of the Constitution of the
                    State of Indiana says every person shall be disqualiified from holding office
                    during the term for which he may have been elected who shall have given or
                    offered a bribe, threat or reward to procure his election; and
                  WHEREAS. In the opinion of a majority of the committee the
                    provisions of the constitution as above cited has been clearly violated by John
                    W. Burson; therefore,
                  Resolved. By the Senate John W. Burson is disqualified from
                    holding the office of State Senator, and that the said John W. Burson is not
                    entitled to a seat on this floor as Senator from the counties of Delaware and
                    Madison, and that the same be declared vacant.
                
              
            
            The resolution was adopted by yeas 24, nays 21--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown, Bird,
                    Carnahan, Cave, Denbo, Dittemore, Dougherty, Elliott, Francisco, Fuller,
                    Glessner, Gregg, Henderson, Johnson, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan, Rosebrough,
                    Straud and Williams--24.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Caven, Collett,
                    Dwiggins, Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard, Martindale,
                    Miller, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--20.
                
              
            
            An ineffectual motion was made to adjourn.
            Mr. HENDERSON moved to reconsider the vote adopting the resolution, and to lay this
              motion on the table.
            The latter motion was agreed to by yeas 24, nays 21.
            And then the Senate adjourned till ten o'clock to-morrow.
          
        

        

        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            TUESDAY, February 21, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M. The order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. Holliday.
          The CLERK read the journal of yesterday, till--
          On motion of Mr. COPNER its further reading was dispensed with.
          
            TELEGRAPH, EXPRESS AND FREIGHT COMPANIES.
            Mr. STONE (by unanimous consent) from the special joint committee on the subject of
              the equalization of railroad taxation, reported a bill(H. R. 348) for an act to
              provide for the assessment and taxation of telegraph, express and freight companies,
              which was read the first time.
          
          
            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
            Mr. CAUTH0RN, from the Committee on the Judiciary, reported a
              substitute for the bill (H. R. 131) entitled a bill (H. R. 349) for an act
              supplemental to an act in relation to County Treasurers, approved June 4, 1852.
            He also returned the bill (H. R. 90) amending the 17th section of the practice act,
              recommending its passage.
            Mr. HENDERSON returned the bill (H. R. 168) recommending its passage.
          
          
            PETITIONS.
            Messrs. FURNAS and DAVIDSON presented petitions.
            Mr. HENDERSON also returned Mr. Cunningham's bill [H. R. 328], recommending that it
              be laid on the table, which was concurred in.
            Mr. ST. JOHN returned the Libel bill [H. R. 343], recommending its passage.
            Mr. McDONALD returned the bill [H. R. 242], recommending its passage.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY returned the bill [H. R. 250] reporting a substitute [H. R. 350] to
              amend the 45th section of the act defining felonies.
            He also returned the bill [H. R. 172], recommending that it be laid on the table,
              which was concurred in.
            He also returned the resolution for fair assessments, recommending that it be laid on
              the table, which was concurred in.
            Mr. ST. JOHN returned the bill [H. R. 317] for relief of Emily Wilson, recommending
              its passage.
            Mr. SANSBERRY, from the Commitee on the Organization of Courts,
              returned the resolution in relation to return of pettit jurors, with a favorable
              report.
            Mr. ABBETT, from the Committee on Education, returned the School
              bill [H. R. 311] with an amendment(shall not interfere with past loans of the School
              Fund.)
            Mr. McDONALD returned the University bill [193] with an amendment; ($15,500, instead
              of $30,000.)
            Mr. MILES, from the Committee on Military Affairs, reported
              unfavorably to a recommendation in the Governor's message.
            Mr. CALDWELL, from the Committee on Swamp Lands, returned the bill
              [H. R. 80] with an adverse report; which was concurred in.
            Mr. BROWNING reported for printing 300 copies of the Adjutant General's report; which
              was concurred in.
            Mr. COGGSWELL, from the Committee on Fees and Salaries, returned
              the bill [H. R. 124] with amendments.
            He also returned the county officers' bill [H. R. 28] recommending that it be laid on
              the table; which was concurred in.
            He also returned the recorder's bill [S.18] recommending its passage.
            He also returned the bill [H. R. 153] recommending that it be laid on the table;
              which was concurred in.
            He also returned the bill [H. R. 150] recommending that it be laid on the table;
              which was concurred in.
            He also returned the bill [H. R. 240], recommending that it be laid on the table,
              which was concurred in.
            Mr. BRITTON, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges, returned
              the $1,500 homestead bill, [H. R. 184], recommending that it be indefinitely
              postponed.
            Mr. BEELER and Mr. WILSON demanded the ayes and nays on the question, and the same
              being ordered and taken, the report was concurred in--yeas 64, nays 17.
            He also returned sundry petitions in regard to the divorce laws, and reported a bill
              [H. R. 351] for an act to amend section 7 of the act of May 13, 1852, regulating
              divorces. &c.
            Mr. MINICH, from the Committee on Railroads, returned the farm
              crossing railroad bill [H. R. 297], recommending its indefinite postponement.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, moved that it be included in the special order for railroad
              bills next Friday. It was so ordered by consent.
            Mr. MINICH also returned the railroad bill [H. R. 296], recommending that it be laid
              on the table; which took the same course with the foregoing.
            Mr. KENNEDY, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
              returned the bill [H. R. 231], also a resolution of the House; also the bill [H. R.
              315], recommending that they be laid on the table, which reports were concurred
              in.
            Mr. ZENOR, from the Committee on County and Township Business,
              returned Mr. McFarland's bill (H. R. 276) recommending that it be laid on the table;
              which was concurred in.
            He also returned the bill (H. R. 95) recommending that it belaid on the table; which
              was concurred in.He also returned the bill (H. R. 321) recommending its passage.
            Mr. BRUNER returned the resolution in regard to fees of officers, recommending that
              it be laid on the table; also the bill (H. R. 289) with the same recommendation; which
              were concurred in.
            Mr. STEPHENS returned a dog law petition, etc., with an adverse report; which was
              concurred in.
            Also the bill (H. R. 312), Mr. White's, in relation to competent road viewers.
            Mr. WHITE explained the reason for the bill, and the House refused to concur in the
              report.

            

            Mr. WOOD returned the petition for German legal publications, recommending that it
              lie on the table; which was concurred in.
            He also returned the bill [H. R. 314,] recommending its passage.
            Mr. Major returned the bill [H. R. 330] recommending its passage.
            Mr. BEELER, from the Committee on Agriculture, returned the bill
              [H. R. 162] recommending that the bill be passed without the amendments referred.
            It was made the special order for to-morrow.
            Mr. MINICH, from the Committee on Benevolent Institutions,
              submitted a general report in writing, which was read by the Clerk.
            On motion of Mr. BROWNING, 300 copies of the report in pamphlet form were ordered to
              be printed.
            Mr. McFARLAND, from the same committee, submitted a special report exonerating the
              managers of the Knightstown Home from charges against them in relation to the care of
              the inmates, and recommending an increase of the rate of boarding.
            Mr. McDONALD stated his belief that the committee had been imposed upon.
            Mr. McFARLAND replied.
            Mr. McGOWAN, from the committee on the investigation of reformatory
                institutions, reported a bill [H. R. 352] for an act supplemental to the
              act establishing a female prison for girls and women, approved May 13, 1869--(for an
              appropriation of $40,000 for the completion of the building, &c.)
            Mr. BRITTON, from the Committee on Highways, returned Mr. Defrees'
              bill [H. R. 61], to reimburse township road aid, recommending that the bill lie on the
              table, which was concurred in, and subsequently reconsidered.
            Mr. DEFREES said it seemed to him that when this aid has been made by townships,
              under the act of 1869, they should be reimbursed from the county treasuries, as the
              benefit conferred thereby was common to the locality. He hoped the report would not be
              concurred in.
            Mr. BRITTON said the bill limitating the tax for these reimbursements was so small
              that it could not be available; and he submitted other objections to the bill, in
              which the committee were unanimous.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH moved non-concurrence.
            Mr. BRIGGS showed the justice of the provision that the railroad county tax should
              reimburse the township railroad aid.
            Mr. DEFREES further answered the objections urged by Mr. Britton. These
              reimbursements could be made in five or six years; and this should be done before the
              county at large have the benefit of the railroad taxation.
            The report of the committee was not concurred in, and the bill goes to the
              calendar.
            Mr. TARLETON returned the road tax bill (H. R. 217) recommending that it be laid on
              the table, which was concurred in.
            Mr. TARLETON, from the Committee on Printing, returned the bill
              (H. R. 161) recommending its passage.
            Mr. McDONALD, from the Judiciary Committee, returned the divorce bill (S. 8) to amend
              the 6th, 7th, and 11th sections of the divorce act, reporting a substitute, a bill (H.
              R. 353) for an act to amend sections 6, 7, and 9 of the act regulating the granting of
              divorces, nullification of marriages, and the orders and decrees of courts in relation
              thereto, &c.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY moved that the report be not concurred in.
            The SPEAKER. The motion is not in order.
            Mr. McDONALD from the select committee, on the Legislative apportionment bill (H. R.
              291) with an amendment.
            Mr. WOOD, from the minority of said special committee, submitted a report against the
              constitutionality of the bill (H. R. 291.) It is not founded on any enumeration which
              the constitution requires, and they recommend that it be laid on the table.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, moved to make the subject the special order for Tuesday of
              next week.
            Mr. NEFF said it was a political question purely, and it did not need discussion.
            Mr. CALKINS insisted on the rights of the minority to be heard on the matter. But if
              the ten minutes should be insisted on we must yield.
            Mr. McDONALD was not disposed to apply any gag. He also preferred that the bill take
              its regular place in the calendar. Postponement would kill it. He would vote for
              nothing unfair in this apportionment. It was to correct an unfair apportionment; and
              as to its constitutionality, the majority would take the responsibility; and if
              discussion comes here, he would be willing to divide the time equally.
            Mr. ZENOR moved to lay the motion of Mr. Calkins on the table, but did not press
              it.
            Mr. GORDON of Boone, considered this a proposition demanding investigation, and
              therefore it had been asked to make it a special order. And if this be not granted it
              must be for the reason, that it is determined that the reasoning of the minority
              showing the unconstitutionally of the bill shall not be heard on this floor. Were
              gentlemen afraid to go back to their constituents with a fair and a just and equal
              record? He demanded the special order as a right of the minority; and he predicted
              that debate on that side would be repressed.
            Mr. BROWNING submitted that there were other pressing measures pending.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY hoped for the special order notwithstanding other measures were
              pressing. We are already informed that this bill is to be put through under the party
              lash, a fact which should go distinctly to the country. If this bill is a fair
              proposition, gentlemen have nothing to lose by discussion, but if it is not fair, then
              there was reason for covering it up. It involved a constitutional question, which
              should not pass without debate.Mr. McDONALD inquired of the gentle-  man if it has not been determined that the minority would
              resign to defeat this bill.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY. I know of no such determination.
            Mr. ZENOR now insisted on his motion to lay Mr. Calkins' motion on the table.
            Mr. BIGGS demanded the yeas and nays, which being ordered and taken thereon
              resulted--yeas 44, nays 40, as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett. Britton, Browning, Bruner, Caldwell,
                    Cauthorn, Coggswell, Copner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Davidson, Devol,
                    Galletine, Gentry, Gable, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Hawley, Haynes, Henderson,
                    Hendry, Hynes, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Minich, Miles, Mitchell,
                    Montgomery, Neff, Oakley, Ray, Sansberry, Shutt, Stanley, Stephens, Tarlton,
                    Taughinbaugh, Warrum, Zenor and Mr. Speaker--45.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Ballenger, Beeler, Biggs, Butterworth, Calkins
                    of Fulton, Calkins of Porter, Conner, Defrees, Deputy, Friedley, Gordon, of
                    Boone, Heilman, Hill, Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Knight, Major, Martin
                    of Wayne, Martin of Putnam, Millikan, Monroe, Netherton, Rawles, Rhodes, Sabin,
                    Sayers, Snodgrass, Stephenson, St. John, Stone, Taylor, Washburn, White Wilson,
                    Williams, Wood, Woodward and Mr. Wymer--40.
                
              
            
            So the motion was laid on the table.
            Mr. BIGGS now moved that the matter be postponed, and made the special order for
              Monday.
            Mr. McDONALD proposed to-morrow, at ten o'clock A M.
            Mr. BALLENGER proposed Friday at two o'clock P. M.
            Mr. ZENOR moved to lay Mr. Ballenger's amendment on the table.
            Mr. BALLENGER demanded the yeas and nays, and his amendment was laid on the table, by
              yeas 46, nays 40; and the question recurred on the adoption of Mr. McDonald's
              motion:
            Mr. McDONALD demanded the previous question, and there was a second; and thereupon
              Mr. McDonald's motion to make the subject the special order for to-morrow at two
              o'clock p. m. was agreed to--yeas 46, nays 40.
            Mr. WILSON moved that 206 copies of the reports and bill be printed, which was agreed
              to, and it was so ordered.
            On motion of Mr. SABIN the House then took a recess till two o'clock p. m.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Speaker resumed at two o'clock P. M.
            Mr WASHBURN rose to a question of privilege.
            
              INTERNAL IMPROVEMENT BONDS.
              Mr. CAUTHORN demanded the consideration of the special order, viz: The
                consideration of the Senate concurrent resolution in relation to the Wabash and Erie
                Canal settlement and the older Internal Improvement bonds.
              Mr. CAUTHORN moved that said Senate concurrent resolution be indefinitely
                postponed.
              Mr. McDONALD gave notice that if the latter resolution (the second) should pass he
                would move to amend by adding the following:
              Provided, however, That it shall not be lawful for the Governor,
                Secretary, Auditor, or Treasurer of State, or either of them, in redeeming any of
                the old Internal improvement or other outstanding bonds, issued prior to the year
                1840, to allow a higher rate of interest than five per cent. on the principle monies
                due such bonds after July 1, 1847, that being the rate of interest paid to those who
                surrendered their old bonds under what is known as the "Butler bills," nor shall
                there be allowed compound interest on the coupons due and past due; nor shall such
                bonds or interest coupons be paid in gold or silver coin, or their equivalent, but
                only in the lawful paper currency of the United States; nor shall exchange on
                London, England, or other European city, shall be allowed or paid to the holder or
                holders of a class of surrendered bond issued previous to the year 1840, the doing
                of which, in either case, is strictly forbidden.
              Mr. WILSON moved for a call of the House, which was executed and discovered
                seventy-nine members present.
              Mr. CAUTHORN. The subject under consideration is an important one to the people of
                the State, and demands at the hands of their representatives a careful
                investigation. For a number of years the Internal Improvement debt of Indiana was
                considered by every one in and out of the State as finally settled and at rest
                forever. But during the last few years the people have been agitated on the subject.
                When it was first revived it attracted but little attention, and scarcely approached
                the dignity of a question. But, sir, recently it has acquired volume and force until
                to day the people throughout the State are aroused and excited upon it. Such being
                the fact I feel warranted in asking the indulgence and attention of the House for a
                few moments upon it.
              The last Republican Convention that assembled in this city directed particular
                attention to this matter, and by resolution demanded it should be protected and
                guarded by throwing around it the mantle of Constitutional inviolability. It was
                thus injected as it were into the canvass last fall, and great stress was laid by
                our Republican friends upon the fact that the Convention had thus resolved and that
                the Democratic Convention had failed to place itself on the record in the same way.
                The impression was sought to be made upon the minds of the people that the silence
                of the Democratic Convention was in consequence of that party, or at least its
                leaders, being in-favor of the policy of taking back the Wabash and Erie Canal and
                re-assuming the debt cancelled by its transfer. This conclusion and view of the case
                was denied by the Democratic candidates and the imputation hurled back with
                indignant defiance.
              Upon no subject was I particularly questioned by my constituents except this one. I
                was frequently asked in public assemblages of the people what I would do in the
                event of my election in the matter of taking back the canal and assuming the debt
                discharged by the act of 1846, com-  monly
                called the "Butler bill." My reply was that the Internal Improvement debt of the
                State had been contracted by a generation that has passed away and had been by them
                honorably and satisfactorily arranged by the provisions of the acts of 1846 and
                1847, and that the settlement then made should never be disturbed. That pledge thus
                publicly made, was made in good faith, and shall be sacredly observed.
              When the joint resolution on the subject of amending the constitution of the State,
                introduced by my honorable friend from Putnam, was under consideration, I contented
                myself by simply placing myself on the record by my vote on the passage of the
                resolution. And for the reason that no question was presented by the resolution.
                Every citizen of the State who is not interested in some way, is opposed to the
                State taking back the canal or re-assuming the debt cancelled by its transfer. Both
                political parties are agreed upon this, and no difference of opinion obtains. No
                representative on this floor can advocate such policy and live in this State, except
                as Benedict Arnold lived after his treason, in infamy and disgrace. Besides, sir,
                any act of this or any other General Assembly, with such object in view, will be
                nugatory and void, and can never be enforced, as the people will rise as one in
                armed resistance to its execution. Should such a contingency arise, however, every
                honest citizen of Indiana will be a soldier arrayed in hostile opposition to the
                accomplishment of the mercenary and infamous purpose.
              But the resolution of the Senate now before the House, present a grave question,
                and should be carefully considered, involving as it does, in the opinion of many,
                the hazard on the part of the State of immense liabilities, incurred under the
                General Internal Improvement system, and arranged by the Butler bill, and the
                supplement thereto. Governor Baker, in his message to this General Assembly, called
                special attention to the old Internal Improvement bonds of the State yet
                outstanding, and not surrendered under the Butler Bill, and has also recommended
                that provision be made for their payment, for the reason that these bonds are a lien
                on the Canal, which was transferred in satisfaction of one-half the debt of the
                State, and which lien is now sought to be enforced by legal proceedings, instituted
                and pending in the Carroll County Circuit Court, and that unless the State
                interferes and pays said bonds, the successful prosecution of that suit will result
                in a decree for the sale of the Canal, and the failure of the State to prevent such
                a result will give the creditors of the State who surrendered their bonds under the
                Butler Bill, a legal and equitable right to demand of the State the re-assumption of
                that portion of the debt which was adjusted by the transfer of the canal amounting
                now, both principal and interest, to many millions of dollars.
              The recommendation of the Governor, if acted upon by the House favorably, will at
                once burden the Treasury of the State with a debt of six hundred thousand dollars.
                The only reason assigned for the recommendation is to prevent the happening of the
                other contingency, the State becoming liable to re-assume the payment of the
                surrendered bonds. The recommendation, coming from the source it does, is entitled
                to great weight. Governor Baker stands high in the estimation of the people, without
                distinction of party. His eminent ability is known and conceded. He enjoys a
                reputation for purity and uprightness of which any public man might justly be proud.
                The opinion of such a man is entitled to great respect, and will receive it,
                especially with the minority. But in addition to the opinion of Governor Baker, the
                legal opinion of Hon. Thomas A. Hendricks has been obtained in support of the
                recommendation. It is not going beyond the measure of truth to say that the
                influence wielded by Governor Baker over the minds of the minority is wielded in a
                much greater degree by Mr. Hendricks over the majority. He is justly regarded by
                them as one of the most brilliant and gifted statesmen in the nation whom they have
                honored in the past with the highest manifestations of confidence, and whom they are
                anxious in the future to honor with the highest position of trust and profit within
                the reach of man. Besides the Senate of Indiana has passed the resolution under
                consideration and added the weight of its authority in the same direction. Such
                being the case any one dissenting from the recommendation should act with great
                caution as a fearful responsibility is assumed. If it be true that by failing to
                make provision for the payment of the 191 bonds alluded to by the Governor the
                liability of the State to re-assume the payment of the bonds surrendered under the
                Butler bill would be jeopardized in any way whatever, I apprehend there is no member
                here who would hesitate one moment in the course he should adopt. For my part, if I
                thought any such result was possible I would urge and favor the immediate payment of
                the unsurrendered bonds. But I do not admit the correctness of the position. I hold
                that the State should not pay the unsurrendered bonds--that no legal, equitable, or
                moral obligation rests upon her to do so, and that in no manner, shape, or form will
                the State be rendered liable to pay the bonds unsurrendered and cancelled under the
                Butler bill by refusing to make provision for the payment of the unsurrendered bonds
                held by Garret and others. This is the gist of the question now before us, and
                holding the opinions I do on the subject, I favor the resolution postponing
                indefinitely the Senate resolutions.
              Mr. BALLENGER stated the important of the action of the General Assembly on these
                resolutions on account of the State's liability dependant of the decision of the
                Garrett case in the Carroll Circuit Court. He then proceeded at length to argue the
                liability of the State to pay the uncancelled 
                bonds sought to be surrendered and funded under the Butler bills
                arrangements--showing that the State is liable primarily to pay them They are a debt
                created by the State, and still owing by the State; and the pledge of the public
                improvements does not relieve the State. In reply to Mr. Copner he denied that the
                Butler bills arrangement is a contract with those unsurrendered bondholders, because
                the State had no right to make such a contract without their consent. Since this
                legislature was convened here this session, the judge has decided that these bonds
                are a first lien on the canal and public works, and before the time of the next
                regular session the time will be part for the stay of execution thereon. The canal
                commissioners would not appeal the case, unless they were supplied with the means to
                do so. Should we suffer this property to be sold and run the risk of consequences by
                refusing to provide for the payment of these bonds, if the State should be held
                liable to pay them? He rested the argument very much on the opinion of Hendricks,
                Hord & Hendricks, obtained and communicated by the Governor, which was
                corroborated by the judgment of every good lawyer in the State, so far as he knew.
                It was a question of the honest payment of debts on hand, and repudiation on the
                other.
              Mr. MACK felt the more sustained in his views because those who have differed from
                him have mistook the law under which the bonds in question were issued--the law of
                1836. These bonds were issued under that act of 1836. The State made a simple
                guarantee that if these works (the canals, railroads, &c.,) are insufficient she
                will pay, &c. There are but 191 of these bonds now outstanding, and the
                properties are worth $3,000, 000. There is abundance to pay these bonds. The
                liability of the State was primary to pay the bonds issued under the act of 1835;
                but those bonds are all paid off. The State gave a mortgage on these properties; and
                there was nothing to be apprehended from any decision which may be rendered by the
                Supreme Court. Mr. Garrett must sell property to the amount of a half million of
                dollars before he can touch the Wabash and Erie Canal. But even that sale would not
                render the State liable for the old Internal Improvement Bonds; and to this he cited
                the Beers case. The State's conveyance of the Canal was more than a quit claim deed.
                The case has this express stipulation: "Subject nevertheless to all existing rights
                and equities against the State on account of the same or any portion thereof, or
                liabilities of the State growing out of or in relation to that. They gave to the
                Canal Company $9, 000, 000 of property--a quit claim deed to that subject to the
                liabilities of the State in relation thereto. And there might be more than 191 bonds
                yet unsurrendered--but that makes no difference. The sale of these properties does
                not increase the liability of the State, nor affect the legality of the covenant
                under the Butler bills. He gave examples numerous and familiar to illustrate and
                enforce his position. The Canal Company were not in a condition to ask the State to
                pay the whole of these bonds instead of half cash and half canal stock. The State
                stands on her contract; and the Canal Company's remedy is in the contract, and
                nowhere else.
              Mr. CALKINS of Proter, not following the opinions of others, had determined in his
                own mind to vote for some such resolutions as those pending. He had ever admitted
                that, in the event that the Courts should decide that these bond are a first lien on
                these properties, (which doubtless they will,) the State should provide for their
                payment; but this affects not the question here. When the Canal Company accepted
                these propositions, they accepted them subject to the outstanding liens. They knew
                that the unsurrendered bonds were the first liens. What's the effect? Simply that
                they must provide for the bonds and protect the State as well. But he called
                particular attention to this: that the Canal Company will be subject to all the
                right that Garrett and the rest have. Then, what is their demand against the State?
                It is that the State shall pay one-half the bonds of Garrett and others holding the
                unsurrendered bonds. The State agreed that she would pay them in no other way. I had
                intended to vote for these resolutions for this reason, but I find that they provide
                that the State, in a certain event, will pay these bonds and interest. That was
                one-half too much. He was confident that the State should at the proper time provide
                for the payment of one-half of these outstanding bonds; and so does the amendment
                suggested by the gentleman from Whitley. Therefore, he could not support these
                resolutions in their present shape.
              The SPEAKER said the Chair held that the amendment was not in order pending a
                motion to indefinite postponement.
              Mr. CALKINS. Should vote against the postponement because he desired that the
                resolution should be amended.
              The question was then taken on Mr. Cauthorn's motion to indefinitely postpone,
                resulting--yeas 54, nays 35.
              Mr. FRIEDLEY, explaining, said that while he could not vote for the resolutions in
                their present shape; he voted "no" because we ought to do something with the
                matter.
              Mr. GORDON, of Boone; Mr. HOLLAND, and Mr. RHODES submitted similar explanations
                for their negative votes.
              Mr. McFARLAND being satisfied that all ample provisions have been made by the
                authority of the State for the cancellation of all the bonds of the State, commonly
                known as the Internal Improvement bonds, according to the law known as the Butler
                bill, I vote "aye."
              Mr. STEPHENSON. I vote for the indefinite postponement of these resolutions for the
                following reasons: 1st. Under the law by which these unsurrendered bonds were issued
                the State was made secondarily liable for their payment, and the canals and a
                portion of the Madison Railroad were made 
                primarially liable; or, to state it in more concise language, the State is not
                liable for their payment until the holders have shown us that they have exhausted
                their remedy against the canals and railroad. If gentlemen can show me that J. W.
                Garrett, the holder of these unsurrendered bonds, can not enforce his remedy, or has
                exhausted it, I will then consider the propriety of paying his claim. But his remedy
                is ample.
              2d. The present owners of the canal voluntarily took this property, subject to all
                existing liabilities, rights, and equities. They were competent to make this
                contract, and the State accepted it. Both parties knew these liabilities were out.
                Now if they permit Garrett to foreclose, it is their fault and not ours. The fact
                that these bonds were unsurrendered was a part of the consideration of the contract
                under the Butler bill. The canal was transferred to them for about four and a half
                millions of dollars, when in fact it was worth a great deal more, and had they not
                promised to pay these outstanding obligations, I very much doubt if the contract
                would have been made.
              Mr. TAYLOR. If the question were upon the adoption of the resolutions as they have
                been sent to us from the Senate, I should feel compelled to vote against them. But I
                look upon the question as one of great practical importance, and one which ought to
                besquarely met and fairly disposed of by this House. This motion to indefinitely
                postpone is only another way of dodging the responsibility of doing anything, and I
                look upon it as a cowardly and unworthy mode of disposing of a great question. I
                therefore vote against the postponement.
              The result was then announced as above; and so the concurrent resolutions were
                indefinitely postponed.
            
            
              22ND OF FEBRUARY.
              Mr. WILSON submitted a resolution for the adjournment of the House till Thursday
                morning at 9 1/2 o'clock, and the observance of to-morrow as a holiday.
              Mr. McDONALD cherished as much respect and veneration as any man for the memory of
                George Washington, but not enough to forget the business of the State here.
              Mr. COPNER considered that the House did not usually adjourn over the 22d of
                February, and himself thought that it were better to adhere to the business of the
                House.
              Mr. WILSON stated that the Senate at its last regular session did not sit on that
                day.
              On motion of Mr. McDONALD the resolution was laid on the table--yeas 55, nays
                35.
            
            
              STATE ENTOMOLOGIST.
              The SPEAKER returned to Mr. Furnas'State Entomologist bill, (H. R. 208,) the
                question being on the amendment reported by the committee, to place the election In
                the hands of the State Agricultural Society.
              Mr. McDONALD was distinctly opposed to the bill.
              The SPEAKER here arrested the proceedings. The bill is engrossed.
            
            
              THE CALENDAR.
              The bill, (H. R. 104,) defining the powers and duties of Township Trustees in
                relation to graded school houses. was read the second time.
              The alien real estate holding bill, (H. R. 149,) was read the second time.
              The bill, (H. R. 183,) authorizing cities, towns and townships to issue bonds for
                school building purposes, was read a second time.
              The bill [H. R. 195] to amend sections 34, 35 of the common school law was read the
                second time.
              Mr. NETHERTON proposed to amend by a clause prescribing that the act shall take
                effect on the first day of December, 1871; which was adopted.
              Mr. Browning's bill [H. R. 210] to provide for the selection of depositories of the
                monies by the County Commissioners, was read the second time.
              Mr. BIGGS--depositories any where in the State?
              Mr. BROWNING. Anywhere in the State.
              Mr. White's bill [H. R. 256] to amend sections 1 to 14 of the act concerning
                enclosures, trespassing animals, partition fences, &c., was read the second
                time--with the Committee amendment, "and give such approved replevin bail,"
                &c.
              Mr. WHITE accepted the amendment and proposed further to amend by appropriately
                inserting the word "unclaimed," which was agreed to.
              These several bills were ordered to be grossed.
            
            
              TRIAL OF INSANITY.
              Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, called up his motion to reconsider the vote laying the bill
                [S. 221] on the table. This bill proposes that when the plea of insanity is made,
                that question shall be first tried by a proper jury; and if it is found well
                pleaded, the jury shall take steps to consign the party to the Lunatic Asylum. It
                proposes to separate this from the main issue of the action. In many cases this plea
                was set up to throw the issue into doubt, and thus it was liable to be lost sight
                of. He desired simply that the bill be allowed to take its place again in the
                clerk's files.
              Mr. BALLANGER also desired to take up the bill for amendment. He would separate the
                two provisions of the bill so that each might stand on its merits--that which
                changes the practice; and that which provides for the trial on the plea of
                insanity.
              The motion was agreed to by consent.
              Mr. BIGGS moved to reconsider the vote laying the bill (H. R. 276) on the table,
                which was agreed to by consent, and the bill goes to the calendar.
            
            
              22D OF FEBRUARY.
              Mr. OATLEY submitted an order, which was adopted, that the Adjutant General fire a
                salute of thirteen guns to-morrow, in honor of George Washington, the Father of his
                Country.
            
            
              THE CALENDAR.
              The Running Streams bill (H. R. 259).

              

              The bill [H. R. 261], to repeal the real estate redemption act.
              The bill [H. R. 269], to amend section 30 of the Supervisor's act.
              The bill [H. R. 270], to amend the first section of the act to enable incorporated
                towns, &c., to open streets and alleys, &c., were severally read the second
                time and ordered to be engrossed.
              Mr. COPNER'S bill [H. R. 274], to repeal sections 1 to 10 and 12 of the act of June
                17, 1852, for the organization of County Boards, was read.
              Mr. ST. JOHN moved that it be referred to the Committee.
              Mr. COPNER preferred it should take its regular course.
              Mr. ST. JOHN withdrew the motion.
              The horse thief bill [H. R. 277].
              The dead bodies protection bill [H. R. 278].
              The bill [H. R. 281], to amend section 6 of the valuation act.
              The bill [H. R. 282] to authorize hydraulic companies to condemn lands.
              The bill [H. R. 284] to amend the act regulating discents.
              The bill [H. R. 285] to provide for the disposal of unclaimed county orders.
              The bill [H. R. 286] in relation to constable fees.
              The bill [H. R. 287] to protect trees.
              The bill [H. R. 288] making the procurement of abortion felony.
              The bill [H. R. 294] to amend section five of the township business act.
              The bill [H. R. 298] to amend section 208 of the common school law ; were severally
                read the second time and ordered to the engrossment.
              Mr. St. John's Supreme Court limitation bill[H. R. 283] was taken up with Mr.
                Biggs' amendment, to reduch the sum from $200 to $25 below which cases shall not go
                to the Supreme Court.
              Mr. BIGGS was heard at length in support of his amendment. In one-third of the
                cases before the Supreme Court there is involved less than $200.
              Mr. ST. JOHN replied, showing the abuses and wrongs inflicted upon the poorer
                litigant by appealing cases in which but a small amount is involved. It was to
                correct this, and also to obviate the necessity of another judge in the Supreme
                Court, that he had introduced this bill, and he illustrated its propriety by
                examples.
              Mr. BIGGS referred to the twelfth article of the constitution: "All courts shall be
                open," &c.
              Mr. ST. JOHN put the question upon the general benefit which the bill would bring
                to the people.
              Mr. BALLENGER proposed to amend by inserting appropriately instead of "$25," this:
                "And where the amount or value of the thing in controversy is $100 and upwards," and
                in support of this he replied at some length to the considerations taken by Mr. St.
                John. Putting this limitation to $100 and upwards was going as far as we ought, and
                as gentlemen ought to ask in this direction.
              Mr. TAYLOR showed that the bill and other amendments would involve so much as to
                make it impracticable; it would exclude a large number of cases involving most
                important principles.
              Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, moved to amend by striking out the enacting clause of the
                bill.
              Pending which--
              On motion of Mr. KENNEDY, at 6 o'clock the House adjourned.
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            WEDNESDAY, February 22, 1871.
          
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR took the Chair and commanded order--at 10 o'clock A. M.
          Prayer by Rev. R. D. Robinson, of the M. E. church.
          The Secretary's minutes of yesterday's proceedings were read.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR laid before the Senate an invitation to attend the ceremonies in
            honor of Washington's birth day at the N. W. C. University.
          Also anniversary exercises at the Park M. E. Church.
          Mr. STEELE was granted leave of absence on account of sickness in his family.
          
            THE SINKING FUND.
            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS the order of business was suspended, by yeas 33, nays 7,
              for the purpose of considering on its third reading the bill H. R. 246 for
              distribution among the counties of the State the monies on hand belonging to the
              Sinking Fund.
            Mr. ROSEBRUGH moved to recommit the bill to the committee with instructions to amend
              by reporting a substitute authorizing the loan of this fund in the same manner as the
              college fund is now loaned as near as may be, provided that no loan shall be made
              exceeding one thousand dollars to any one person--the fund to be managed by the State
              Auditor. The county Auditors would be influenced by local interests had they the
              management of it, and fewer indulgences would be had were it loaned by the State
              officer. No one is in favor of leaving this money on deposit in this city. The only
              difference of opinion is as to how this fund shall be distributed.
            Mr. DWIGGINS moved to lay the motion on the table.
            Mr. ROSEBRUGH hoped an opportunity for discussion would not be cut off in this
              way.
            The motion to lay on the table was agreed to, by yeas, 26; nays 13.
            Mr. FULLER demanded the previous question.
            It was read for the third time, the demand for the previous question was seconded,
              and the bill finally passed the Senate by yeas, 42; nays, 1, with an amendment of
              title "and adding a supplemental section there to."
            Pending the call--
            Mr. GRAY, when his name was called, voted "no," as he preferred his own bill on this
              subject, which he should call up as soon as possible in order to have it passed.
            After the roll-call was completed Mr. Gray changed his vote because he saw no chance
              for the success of his bill, this vote being so unanimous.
            Mr. JOHNSTON, when his name was called, in explanation of his vote, said he was very
              much in favor of loaning the money now on hand belonging to this fund in order that
              the interest to accrue therefrom may be appropriated to its legitimate purposes ; but
              was satisfied that under this bill that would not be the case--that the interest will
              not be paid. Then gentlemen here in favor of this bill will not admit of its mission;
              they passed the motion to lay substitute on the table without debate; they called the
              previous question, as though they are determined no other bill shall pass this but
              this. He was satisfied this bill will create a great deal of trouble for all time;
              therefore he voted "no."
            Mr. MARTIDALE, in explanation of his vote, said this is not my choice of the many
              bills that have been introduced upon this subject. Looking alone to the best interest
              of the fund, to its safety, rapid increase,and economy of management I believe they
              would demand an investment in United States bonds. But against this is urged the plea
              that the money should be kept in circulation by loans to the people. This is a
              plausable and popular plan, but one which places in the background the best interest
              of the fund.
            That plan has, however, been passed upon and rejected by the Legislature. It is now
              conceded by all that a large majority of this Legislature are in favor of loaning the
              fund, and while I am sure the fund could be more safely and successfully managed by
              one man than by many, yet I am now satiisfied that if we do not pass this bill we will
              pass none, and that the now nearly $700,000 will lay here for two years without one
              dollar of interest going into the school fund, It has been asserted upon this floor
              that this large sum of money has been laying idle in  the hands of the Auditor since the last session of the
              Legislature. This is not correct. The larger part of this fund has accumulated by the
              collections from the sinking fund since the last session of the Legislature. The
              interest on the fund amounts to about $100 per day, and we should seek the earliest
              opportunity to invest it. Some more perfect bill may be passed before the close of the
              session, but as this is the best we can do now I am decidedly for this bill.
            The vote was then announced as above.
            So the bill passed.
          
          
            FISH PROTECTION.
            On motion by Mr. MARTINDALE, the order of business was suspended and the fish
              protection bill (H. R. 271) was taken up.
            Mr. MARTIN DALE moved for a dispensation of the constitutional restriction that the
              bill may be twice read and put upon its passage.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 40, nays 3.
            The bill was then read the second time and again the third time, and passed by yeas
              35, nays 8.
            Mr. WILLIAMS made an ineffectual motion to consider the revenue bills.
            Mr. DENBO made an ineffectual motion to take up the Governor's message on the subject
              of the old Internal Improvement bonds.
            Mr. BADLEY moved for a suspension to take up his Fifth Supreme Court Judge bill, (S.
              28.)
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 28, nays--15.
            The bill was read the third time.
            Mr. CARNAHAN moved to recommit the bill with instructions to report a substitute in
              lieu, dividing the State into five Districts, and providing for the election of an
              additional Supreme Judge.
            Messrs. Cave and Hooper obtained indefinite leave of absense.
            Mr. DWIGGINS moved to lay the motion to recommit on the table.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 23, nays--16.
            Mr. DWIGGINS demanded the previous question.
            The demand was seconded by the Senate, and under the operation of the previous
              question the bill passed by yeas 27, nays 16.
          
          
            PROMISSORY NOTES.
            Mr. GRAY moved to take up the bill (H. R. 172) compelling suits to be brought in
              counties where the maker of the same resides, and that the constitutional restriction
              be dispensed with that it may be pressed to its final reading to-day.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 37, nays 4.
            The bill (H. R. 72) to amend section 16, of chapter 6, of the act amending promissory
              notes, etc., approved March 11, 1861, was read the second time, and again the third
              time.
            On motion of Mr. BROWN the bill was laid on the table.
            Mr. FOSDICK obtained leave of absence on account of sickness.
            Mr. CAVEN moved to suspend the order of business that the bill H. R. 234 may be taken
              up. He said it effects only cities of 30,000 inhabitants, for the present only
              effecting Indianapolis. He urged the passage of the bill. Cities having less than
              30,000 inhabitants could accept the propositions if they choose. He moved for a
              dispensation of the Constitutional provisions that the bill may have the three
              readings now and be put upon its final passage.
            The motion was agreed to by yeas 40; nays, 1.
            Thereupon the bill, H.R. 234, providing for a general system of common schools in all
              cities of thirty thousand or more inhabitants and for the election of Board of School
              Commissioners, etc., the establishment of libraries, etc., was read by title only for
              the first and second reading.
            Mr. CAVEN further explained that the provisions of the bill authorized the election
              of one School Commissioner by the qualified electors of each ward or district, and
              that the bill had received the commendation of the Superintendent of Public
              Instruction and superintendent of the city schools of Indianapolis.
            Then came the recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            Mr. BRADLEY asked leave to make a report from the Judiciary Committee, but objection
              being madeHe made an ineffectual motion to suspend the order of business for the
              purpose named.
            The Senate returned to the order pending at the time of taking the recess for dinner,
              and the bill [H. R. 234], providing for the election of School Commissioners in cities
              of 30,000 inhabitants and over, was read the third time and finally passed by yeas 37,
              nays 2.
            
              DRAINAGE REPEAL.
              Mr. WADGE moved for a suspension of the rules in order to take up the bill [H. R.
                23], for the repeal of the drainage law.
              The motion was agreed to by yeas 24, nays 15.
              Mr. BROWN stated there was a majority and minority report on this bill, the latter
                recommending the passage of the bill and the former its indefinite postponement. A
                supplemental bill has passed which cures the defects in the present law, he
                therefore moved to lay the minority report on the table.
              Mr. HUBBARD objecting to this motion--
              Mr. BROWN moved to indefinitely postpone the bill.
              Mr. HUBBARD favored the passage of the bill.
              Mr. BRADLEY demanded the previous question.
            
            
              TAX REPEAL.
              On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the bill [H. R. 342] repealing the tax for State debt
                sinking fund purposes was read the second time.

              

              On his motion--yeas 41, nays 0--the constitutional rules were suspended, the bill
                read the third time and finally passed by yeas 42, nays 0.
            
            
              STATE REVENUE.
              On his further motion the bill [H. R. 343] to raise revenue for State purposes for
                the years 1871-2 and subsequent years five cents on the $100 of property entered for
                taxation and fifty cents on each poll, was read the second time.
              On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the Senate resolved itself into a Committee of the Whole
                for the consideration of this bill, in accordance with a constitutional
                requirement.
              Mr. GREEN was appointed chairman by the Lieutenant Governor, and the bill having
                been read--
              On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the committee rose and reported a recommendation that
                the bill pass without amendment.
              The report of the committee was concurred in.
              On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the constitutional restriction was dispensed with. The
                bill was then read the third time, and finally passed by yeas 43, nays 0.
            
            
              GRAVEL ROADS.
              Mr. ROBINSON moved to suspend the order of business that the bill [S. 151] on the
                subject of gravel roads--referring exclusively to gravel roads organized under the
                law of 1852stock companies--may be read the third time.
              The motion was agreed to and the bill [S. 151] to legalize the acts of companies
                organized or attempted to be organized under the act or acts aforesaid, etc., was
                read the third time.
              Mr. GLESSNER explained that this was a bill to legalize the acts of the Board of
                Directors of such gravel, plank or McAdamized road companies. It did not create any
                new liabilities, but authorized the keeping up of the roads by the revenues that
                come in from the gates.
              Mr. GREGG enquired if there are defects in the articles of association of companies
                which have made application for assessments, would it not cure and legalize all
                defects in the articles of association of all gravel road companies.
              Mr. GLESSNER replied that the bill has no reference to any road that was built
                otherwise than by voluntary subscription.
              Mr. ROBINSON stated one of the chief remedies sought is to allow the companies to
                insert the amount of their capital stock in their articles of association.
              Mr. BIRD could not see from the reading of the bill but that it would apply to
                roads organized under any of the gravel road laws. If it were applicable only to the
                law of 1852 he would not have so much objection.
              Mr. ROBINSON replied that it had reference only to associations formed under the
                law of 1852 and supplemental acts.
              The bill passed the Senate by yeas 28, nays 10.
            
            
              FIFTH SUPREME COURT DISTRICT.
              Mr. GREEN moved to suspend the order of business and take up the bill [S. 37] to
                redistrict the State, for the purpose of electing five Judges of the Supreme
                Court--creating the Fifth District.
              The motion was agreed to, and the bill was read the third time.
              Mr. GREEN stated that at a meeting of the Attorneys of the State, on the outgoing
                of the late Supreme Court, this bill was read and it met the hearty endorsement of
                the outgoing and incoming Supreme Bench.
              Mr. DENBO moved to indefinitely postpone the bill.
              On motion by Mr. DWIGGINS, this motion was laid on the table by yeas 27, nays
                15.
              Mr. DWIGGINS demanded the previous question.
              There being a second by the Senate, the bill was finally passed by yeas 27, nays
                15.
            
            
              AN OLD CLAIM.
              Mr. TAYLOR presented a memorial, by request, from the heirs of Henry Hall,
                deceased, late of Tippecanoe county, with regard to an old claim often presented, in
                favor of William G. Moorehead & Co., for $9,955 20 with interest, making the
                whole sum now over $25,000.
              The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. It will lie on the table and be spread on the journal.
            
            
              FEE AND SALARY BILL.
              On motion of Mr. HENDERSON,the concurrent resolution of the House of
                Representatives, authoring the printing ot 5,000 copies of the Fee and Salary bill
                was taken up and concurred in.
            
            
              REVISED STATUTES.
              Mr. ELLIOTT offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the Librarian release the
                several receipts of members for the revised statutes and that members be allowed to
                keep the same.
            
            
              THE BURSON CASE.
              Mr. HENDERSON offered a resolution for payment of per diem and mileage for
                witnesses on the Burson case.
              The resolution was adopted and it was referred to the Committee on Finance.
            
            
              RULES AND ORDERS.
              Mr. JOHNSTON offered a resolution changing the rules so that each Senator will be
                called in alphabetical order and be permitted to call up one bill and no other.
            
            
              CANAL REPAIRS.
              Mr. BIRD, by leave, submitted a report from the Select Committee thereon,
                recommending the passage of the bill S. 216, to authorize county aid for keeping in
                repair any canal running through or by said county.
              It goes to the files.
            
            
              AID TO RAILROADS.
              On motion by Mr. WOOD, his bill (S. 185) his bill declaring the meaning of the act
                ot May 12, 1869, as to the rights of counties and townships to vote for
                appropriations to more than one road at the same time, and legalizing all such
                votes, was read the second time.
              On his further motion the constitutional 
                restriction was dispensed with--yeays 40, nays 59--and the bill being read the third
                time, it was passed by yeas 31, nays 3.
            
            
              CANAL REPAIRS.
              On motion of Mr. BIRD the constitutional provision was dispensed with by yeas 36,
                nays 5and his bill, [S. 216,] to authorize County Commissioners to appropriate money
                to aid in keeping in repair any canal running in, through or by said county, was
                read by title for the second reading, and again by sections, and passed by yeas 37,
                nays 4.
            
            
              THE BURSON CASE.
              Mr. HENDERSON submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the Finance
                Committee to ascertain the charge for reporting the evidence in the Burson case, and
                report an allowance in the specific appropriation bill therefor.
            
            
              THE SECRETARIES.
              Mr. DITTEMORE offered a resolution allowing $200 to each of the Secretaries for
                reading proof of journals.
              It was adopted.
            
            
              CHANGE OF HIGHWAYS.
              Mr. MORGAN moved to suspend the order of business and read his bill (S. 94) to
                prevent public roads from being changed in certain cases. The motion was agreed to
                and his bill was read the second time.
              On his further motion the constitutional restriction was dispensed with--yeas 38,
                nays 0--the bill was read the third time and passed by yeas 32, nays 6.
            
            
              COUNTY AND TOWNSHIP AID TO RAILROADS.
              On motion of Mr. TAYLOR, his bill, [S. 174] to amend the act of May 12, 1869,
                authorizing county and township aid to railroads, was taken up and read the third
                time passed--yeas 35, nays 5.
            
            
              REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.
              On motion of Mr. BEESON, the bill [H. R. 122] making an appropriation of $150 to
                enable the Superintendent of Public Instruction to distribute his report, was read
                the first time.
              Upon his further motion, the constitutional restriction was dispensed with--yeas
                34, nays 3--and the bill was read the second time.
              Mr. DITTEMORE moved to amend by striking out $150 and inserting $100.
              Mr. GREEN understood the actual cost of expressing these books to the several
                counties is $175. The House cut it down to $150. The Superintendent says it cannot
                be sent for $100; he proposes to pay the other $25 himself.
              Mr. DITTEMORE withdrew his amendment.
              The bill was read the third time and finally passed the Senate by yeas 42, nays
                0.
              Leave of absence was granted to Mr. Dwiggins indefinitely.
            
            
              MUNICIPAL TAX OF BANK STOCK.
              On motion by Mr. FULLER the bill [H.R. 6] to provide for the assessment and
                collection of tax for municipal purposes on banks and bank stocks held in this State
                was read the second time.
              Mr. STEELE moved its reference to the Judiciary Committee.
              Mr. MARTINDALE made an ineffectual motion to lay this motion on the table.
              Mr. BROWN favored the motion to refer, and desired to send amendments with the bill
                that United States bonds so held shall be taxed. He could see no fair reason why the
                capital stock should be taxed and the securities left untaxed. He also desired an
                additional section providing for the assessment and collection of said taxes in the
                township where the owners of such stock resides, &c.
              Mr. HENDERSON moved to amend, by reference to a special committee named in the
                motion, and that it be made the special order for 10 o'clock to-morrow.
              Mr. BROWN said these gentlemen named were all zealous advocates of the bill in its
                present shape.
              Mr. GRAY had no doubt the enemies of the bill desires discussion, but he thought it
                unnecessary, and therefore demanded the previous question.
              The Senate seconded the demand.
              The resolution to refer the bill to the judiciary committee was agreed to, by yeas
                27, nays 16.
              Mr. MARTINDALE moved that the committee be instructed to report the bill at ten
                o'clock, and that it be made the special order for that hour.
              The motion was agreed to.
              Mr. CAVEN offered the following, which was adopted:
              
                
                  
                    WHEREAS, It has been stated by a Senator on the floor of
                      the Senate that at the session of the General Assembly of this State which
                      convened in January 1869, money or pecuniary consideration was paid by the
                      National Banks of this State to some of the members of the Senate Judiciary
                      Committee of such session, to induce them to report against, and use their
                      influence to prevent the passage of an act presented to such Senate providing
                      for the taxation of the capital stock of such banks for municipal purposes,
                      therefore,
                    Resolved. That the President of the Senate appoint a
                      Special Committee of five who shall be charged with the duty of investigating
                      the truth of such statement, and with power to send for persons and
                      papers.
                  
                
              
              Mr. WILLIAMS offered a resolution,which was adopted, authorizing the State Printer
                to bind in sheep three copies of the acts and journals for each member.
            
            
              16TH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.
              On motion of Mr. DWIGGINS, the sixteenth judicial district bill [H. R. 113] was
                read a second time, and the constitutional rules dispensed with by yeas 39, nays 0,
                and the bill was read a third time and passed by yeas, 40; nays, 0.
              The Senate then adjourned.
            
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
          
            WEDNESDAY. February 22, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M. The order of prayer by the Rev. Mr. Edson.

          

          The Clerk executed the reading of the journal, till--
          On motion of Mr. WOODARD, its further reading was dispensed with.
          Mr. CALDWELL (by unanimous consent) returned the Court bill [S. 136] with amendments,
            recommending its passage.
          The SPEAKER added Mr. McDonald to the Committee on the House of
              Refuge contract.
          Mr. CONNER returned the Court bill [H. R. 13] recommending that it be laid on the
            table, which was concurred in.
          The SPEAKER announced the unfinished business, Mr. Taylor's Supreme Court bill [H. R.
            208.]
          Mr. MARTIN of Putnam, claimed that the question is on his motion to strike out the
            enacting clause; under the demand for the previous question.
          The SPEAKER ruled that the motion is in order; but there was no second to the
            demand.
          Mr. BALLENGER moved to recommit the bill to a special committee; which was agreed
            to.
          The SPEAKER appointed said committee, viz: Messrs. Ballenger, Taylor, St. John, Biggs
            and Cauthorn.
          
            AGENT OF STATE.
            On motion of Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, the rules were suspended, and the Senate's
              amendment to the State Agent bill [H. R. 265]making the salary $500were taken up.
            Mr. McDONALD moved to concur, except as to the pay of the Agent. He was for doing
              right and justice to public officers. A thousand dollars was by no means too much. It
              was not a matter of personal or political interest to him.
            Mr. GORDON of Boone, would abolish that office, and with this feeling he would concur
              in the Senate's amendment. He said it was known, that if this concurrence is denied
              the result must be to allow the agent the former compensation of $6,000. This was the
              purpose of the Senate's action. He demanded the previous question, but there was no
              second.
            Mr. COPNER said when he voted to continue this offer he did so, considering it as as
              a pecuniary measure. Five hundred dollars was enough for the work he has to do.
            Mr. ZENOR'S opinion was that this office should be abolished, and gave it as his
              opinion now, that we had better concur, to avoid the alternative that there will be no
              amendment of the law as to this agent. There were men who would take the office for
              that--aye, for nothing. He moved to concur in the Senate amendments.
            Mr. STONE concurred with Mr. Zenor. The State debt being paid offthe little this
              office would have to do could be done through the banks.
            Mr. NEFF. If we continue this office we ought to pay the $1,000. We could have a
              committee of conference as to this.
            Mr. ZENOR said the office would be worth $5,000 without a salary.
            Mr. NEFF. That was news to him.
            Mr. MILES had understood that that $500 is the very best the Senate will do.
            Mr. NEFF. Nevertheless he would make the trial.
            Mr. MACK (Mr. Cauthorn in the chair) said he had yet to learn that any Senator has
              the right to speak for that body. He said also that there were men who would consent
              to take any office for nothing. He warned the House on his information that instead of
              the 191 bonds outstanding, there may be yet four or five hundred of these bonds--some,
              he was informed, had been sent from Chicago to New York for protest, the very hour
              that it was ascertained that it was understood that the Legislature was about to
              abolish the office of Agent of State. This Agent has important and responsible duties,
              and $500 or even $1,000 was no compensation.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY could not think there were any so great responsibilities resting on this
              officer. Certainly the statement of Senators should have as much weight with the House
              as the private information or the surmises of the Speaker.
            Mr. BALLENGER was constrained to vote to concur, because of the apprehension that
              otherwise the old compensation will remain as it has been.
            Mr. BROWNING still thought the $1,000 was too low. We have said it is necessary to
              continue the office. Then we ought to pay for it. The gentleman from Boone and his
              party were very clamorous to cut down the pay of Democratic officers. He considered
              the danger of the protest intimated by the gentleman from Vigo (Mr. Mack)and insisted
              that it was no time to relax our vigilance, to destroy the infamous imputation that
              the Democracy would disregard the Butler bills settlement. ln reply to Mr. Wilson, he
              considered that the same necessity for this office exists now that existed two years
              ago.
            Mr. HOLLAND was for concurrence. Now was the time for gentlemen to practice what they
              preach. Did gentlemen propose to continue this officenow a sinecureat the pay and
              perquisites of nearly $6,000, that is $2,500 and perquisites.
            Mr. BALLENGER demanded the previous question, and there was a second.
            The main question on the adoption of Mr. Zeno's motion to concur in all the Senate's
              amendments, was taken, resulting--yeas 71, nays 21--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Ballenger, Barnaby, Beeler, Biggs,
                    Britton, Bruner, Butterworth, Calkins of Fulton, Calkins of Porter, Conner,
                    Copner, Cox, Defrees, Deputy, Devol, Friedley. Furnas, Galletine, Gentry, Goble,
                    Gordon, of Boone, Gordon of Cass Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Haynes, Heilman,
                    Henderson. Hill, Holland, Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Knight, Lines,
                    Major, Martin of Wayne, Martin of Putnam, McDonald, Minich, Miles, Millikan,
                    Monroe, Myers, Netherton, Oatley, Ray, Rawles, Rhodes, Ruddell, Sabin,
                    Sansberry, Sayers, Shutt, Snodgrass, Stephens, Stephenson, St. John, Stone,
                    Strickland, Taylor, Washburn, Warrum, Williams, Wilson, Wood, Woodward, Wymer
                    and Mr. Zenor--71.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Browning, Caldwell, Cauthorn,  Coggswell, Cunningham, Donham, Hawley Hendry, Hynes,
                    McDowell, McFarland, Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff, Simpson, Stanley, Tarlton,
                    Taughinbaugh, Tebbs, Walker and Mr. Speaker--21.
                
              
            
            Mr. McDONALD. I introduced and advocated the bill in good faith, believing that it
              was and is now necessary to retain that officer, (Agent of State.) I regarded one
              thousand dollars as a sufficient amount for the services rendered for the State. I
              think five hundred dollars too low; but rather than see the measure fail entirely, I
              am compelled to vote aye.
            So the Senate amendments were concurred in.
          
          
            DRAINAGE LAW.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, and Mr. McDONALD called for the vote again on the compromise
              drainage bill, [S. 48] which failed Monday for want of the constitutional majority,
              and the vote resulted--yeas 74, nays 14, as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Ballenger, Barnaby, Beeler.
                    Biggs,Browning,Butterworth, Calkins of Fulton, Calkins of Porter, Cauthorn,
                    Coggswell, Copner, Cunningham, Curtis, Defrees, Deputy, Devol. Donham, Friedley,
                    Furnas, Goble, Hardin, Hartley, Hawley, Haynes, Heilman, Hendry Hill, Holland,
                    Hooker, Kennedy, King, Kirkpatrick, Knight, Lines, Major, Martin of Wayne.
                    Martin of Putnam, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan. Minick, Miles,
                    Millikan, Monroe, Myers, Neff, Netherton, Oakley, Ray, Rawles, Rhodes, Ruddell,
                    Sabin, Sayers, Simpson, Shutt, Snodgrass, Stanley, Stephenson, St. John, Stone,
                    Strickland, Tarlton, Taugbinbaugh, Taylor, Walker, Washburn, Warrum, White,
                    Wilson, Wood, Woodward and Wymer--74.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Britton, Bruner, Caldwell. Gallentine, Gentry,
                    Guthrie, Henderson, Mitchell, Montgomery, Sansberry, Stephens, Williams, Zenor
                    and Mr. Speaker--14.
                
              
            
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH, explaining, said:
            MR. SPEAKER : I have very generally been contented with the privilege of explaining
              my votes to my constituents when called for, but in this instance I desire a word.
              This house knows I have been earnest and active in getting through it a bill repealing
              the draining law to which this bill is suplemental and amendatory. As that bill has
              failed in the Senate, I reluctantly accept this as perhaps it gives some very little
              additional guarantee to land owners. It is like swapping a devil for a witch. I vote
              aye.
            Mr. HENDERSON. Mr. Speaker: In explanation of my vote I would simply say that I am of
              opinion that this supplemental bill only sugar-coats the old law and does not remedy
              its evils. I vote "no."
            Mr. WASHBURN. Mr. Speaker: I came here pledged to vote for the unconditional repeal
              of the law enacted in 1869, known amongst a majority of my constituents as
              the"Kankakee Draining Swindle," which in the simplicity of my heart I believe to be a
              swindle indeed. This House by a large and decisive majority, passed a bill repealing
              that act, but the influences in the Senate have been such that a repeal is now
              impossible, and the Senate having passed this bill which I believe relieves my
              constituents to some extent, I therefore vote "aye."
            So the bill passed the House of Representatives.
          
          
            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
            The SPEAKER returned to the call of counties for new propositions.
            Mr. TAYLOR introduced a bill (H. R. 353) for an act to amend sections 70, 71, and 83,
              of the valuation act of June 21, 1852.
            Mr. TAYLOR, from a majority of the special committee, to whom was referred the road
              bills (H. R. 27, 100, 154, 160,) and petitions and resolutions in relation to road tax
              and labor, returned the same with a report in writing, stating that said committee
              have been unable to agree on the subject, and reasoning at length for a thorough
              reformation of the road law by contract improvements, and recommending the passage of
              the bill (H. R. 100) with amendments.
            Mr. MILES, from a minority of said Special Committee, returned the bill [H. R. 160],
              with amendment by substitute--reasoning for improvements of the roads by labor under
              supervisors--$1 a day for a man, $1 50 for a man, horse and scraper, &c.
            Mr. ABBETT, a bill [H. R. 354] for an act to amend section 2 of the act of March 11,
              1869, to amend the act authorizing agricultural societies to hold real estates,
              &c.
            Mr GORDON, of Boone, submitted a resolution that the Committee on Federal
                Relations return the Fifteenth Amendment joint resolution from the Senate
              (No. 7,) and that the same be made the special order for 11 o'clock this day.
            Mr. HENDERSON moved to lay it on the table; which motion prevailed--yeas 48, nays
              42.
            Mr. BROWNING. A bill [H. R. 355] for an act to amend section 4 of the act to sell
              certain real estate therein named, and to provide a residence for the Governor,
              &c.
            Mr. BROWNING. A bill [H. R. 356] for an act to provide for other affidavit than that
              of applicant for a change of venue in civil and criminal causes.
            Mr. GORDON, of Cass. A bill [H. R. 357] for an act to amend the act of February 3,
              1871, to create the 25th judicial district--(giving more time for Cass county.)Mr.
              GORDON desired a suspension of the Constitutional restriction,that the bill may be
              read the second time to-day and ordered to the engrossment.
            Mr. COX resisted the motion, alleging that the bill would work injustice to the
              county of Miami.
            The motion failed--yeas 40, nays 34--two-thirds not voting in the affirmative.
            Mr. BARNABY--(H. R. 358) for an act to amend the 9th and 87th sections of the act
              dividing the State into counties, defining the boundaries on the Wabash and Ohio
              rivers, etc.
            Mr. CALDWELL--a bill (H. R. 359] for an act to amend section 2 of the act creating
              the 24th Common Pleas District--(affecting only the county of Clinton;) and he moved
              for a suspension of the restrictions that the bill may be put upon its passage--(in
              which motion he included a bill named by Mr. Wilson.)

            

            The restrictions having been suspended for these purposes--yeas 82, nays 3.
            The bill [H. R. 359] to amend the second section of the act creating the 24th
              Judicial District was read the second and third times and finally passed the House of
              Representatives--yeas 85, nays 0.
            On motion of Mr. RUDDELL, the House took up and concurred in the Senate amendment to
              the title of Mr. Defrees' Amended Fish Bill [H. R. 62.]
            Mr. WILSON'S bill [H. R. 327] limiting the jurisdition of the Court of Common Pleas
              in counties where a Superior Court is organized, and in reference to the selection of
              petit juries therein, (included in Mr. Caldwell's suspension) was taken up, twice read
              and finally passed the House of Representatives--yeas 85, nays 2.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF the House concurred by consent in the Senate's amendment to the
              title of the committee bill [H. R. 266] for the distribution of the loaning of the
              school fund among the county Auditors.
          
          
            BREVIER AND HORTICULTURAL REPORTS--ACTS AND JOURNALS.
            Mr. ZENOR submitted the following, which was adopted without a division:
            
              
                
                  Resolved, That the State Printer be authorized to bind in
                    full law, and send to each member of the House of Representatives, and the
                    elective officers thereof, three copies each of the Legislative Brevier Reports,
                    the Acts, the Journals of the House and Senate, the Documentary Journal of the
                    House and Senate, and the Horticultural Reports.
                
              
            
            Mr. CALDWELL submitted a resolution which was adopted, to discharge the clerk of the
                committee on swamp lands.
            Mr. WALKER submitted an order which was referred, that the Committee on
                Education report a bill to furnish township libraries for 10 townships
              unsupplied.
            Mr. TEBBS introduced a bill [H. R. 361], for an act to fix a time for holding Courts
              of Common Pleas in Dearborn county.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM submitted a resolution which was referred, that the Judiciary
              Committee report a bill fixing the per diem of the clerks and police of the General
              Assembly.
            Mr. McGOWAN. A bill [H. R. 362] for an act to amend section 6 of the ditch law of
              March 4, 1869, (making ditch obstruction a penal offense.)
            Mr. McGOWAN. A bill [H. R. 363] for an act providing for the appointment by the
              several courts of the State of guardians for persons of unsound mind.
            Mr. MINICH submitted a resolution which was adopted, allowing the usual compensation
              for indexing the journal.
            Mr. SANSBERRY. A bill [H. R. 364] for an act to amend sections 1, 9 and 10 of the act
              providing for the election and qualification of Justices.
            Mr. LINES gave notice of his desire that the Judiciary Committee would return his
              bill [H. R. 31.]
            Mr. MILLKAN reported a substitute bill [H. R. 365] to amend sections 6 to 12, of the
              act of May 12,1869, to authorize railroad aid by counties and townships, which was
              made the special order for Friday.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF, Mr. Sabin obtained indefinite leave of absence on account of
              sickness in his family.
            The House then took a recess till 2 o'clock.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Speaker resumed the Chair at 2 o'clock P. M.
            On motion of Mr. TAYLOR the bill [S. 28] in relation to the Supreme Court was taken
              up and made the special order for to-morrow at 9 o'clock.
            The SPEAKER commenced the special order, viz: The consideration of Mr. Cauthorn's
              bill [H. R. 291] to amend section 2 and 3 of the act to fix the number of Trustees and
              Representatives in the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, and to apportion the
              same among the several counties of the State of Indiana, and the majority and minorty
              reports thereon.
            Mr. BIGGS moved to postpone the bill till to-morrow--when on motion of Mr. McDonald,
              it was laid on the table.
            Mr. McDONALD moved that we now proceed to vote upon the minority report.
            Mr. WILLIAMS moved, ineffectually, to lay the report on the table.
            Mr. CONNER took the floor to show the injustice of this bill. It makes the county of
              Hamilton and the county of Tipton precisely equal. Hamilton county, with a population
              of 21,000, equal with the county Tipton, with less than half the population; and he
              apprehended that the same injustice might be found in the bill throughout. He moved
              that the bill be recommitted for amendment to a special committee of seven.
            Mr. BIGGS submitted a similar objection to the bill, as it effects the counties of
              Kosciusko and Fulton.
            Mr. McDONALD answered the objections by comparing the provisions of this bill with
              the provisions of the existing apportionment act with reference to these localities.
              He considered the bill a fair one (as he wanted no Gerrymandering) and was prepared to
              meet any objection that might be urged against it. If gentlemen would submit valid
              objections, and submit just amendments he would vote for them.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Fulton, also wanted justice. The ratio was 16,000, and he showed that
              this was not justly applied as to the counties mentioned by the gentleman from
              Kosciusko--the county of Fulton with half of the population of Kosciusko--having the
              same representation. The rights of the minority on this floor were not respected in
              this bill.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, made the point of order that the bill is not here--not in the
              hands of the Clerk--and therefore there is nothing before the House.
            After debate on the question of order, and a speech by Mr. MITCHELL criticising the
              existing apportionment--the bill was produced by the Clerk. It had been in the hands
              of the printer.
            Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, spoke in favor of  the
              recommitment; and he alleged that the bill was not constitutional because it proposes
              a new apportionment without the prescribed enumeration, once in six years; and if it
              be the decision of the House that no apportionment can be made but upon the census,
              then this bill can not be passed constitutionally. It was desired to present this
              consideration in Committee. He then proceeded to show that this bill is not so fair an
              apportionment as that of 1867, giving examples from notes which he had taken. He
              alleged that the purpose of this bill is only a political purpose. It had been well
              remarked by some gentlemen that the majority sit here by virtue of Republican votes;
              and he submitted to these four or five members who have come here under these
              circumstances, how they will meet their constituents after having supported such a
              measure as this?
            Mr. CAUTHORN replied to the constitutional objection. No Legislature has any right to
              bind any succeeding Legislature. It is omnipotent, except as it is restricted by the
              constitution. The constitution does not say that the law of apportionment shall not be
              amended, shall not be changed. Supposing one county to have been left out, could not
              the Legislature amend the act? And this bill was simply an amendment. That was
              precisely this bill--all we propose here.
            Mr. SIMPSON demanded the previous question; and there was a second; and the main
              question, on the adoption of Mr. Conner's motion to recommit the bill, was decided in
              the negative--yeas 45, nays 49.
            Mr MARTIN of Putnam, submitted a resolution to postpone further consideration of the
              bill and the reports thereon till Monday 11 o'clock.
            On motton of Mr. McDONALD it was laid on the table yeas 49, nays 45.
            Mr. SIMPSON again demaned the previous question on the whole matter pending, and
              there was a second; and the main question viz: Shall the report of the minority of the
              committee be concurred in? was decided in the negative--yeas 45, nays 41.
            Mr. BIGGS moved to lay the majority report on the table.
            The SPEAKER, (Mr. Cauthorn in the Chair,) ruled the motion to be out of order,
              holding that the vote just taken rejecting the minority adopts the majority
              reports.
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter, made the point of order, that the bill now takes its place on
              the files.
            Mr. McDONALD insisted that the bill [H. R 29 ] is still before the House, and it was
              made the special order for this particular hour of the day, when the subject was taken
              up--
            The SPEAKER pro tem held that the bill is before the House.
            Mr FRIEDLEY moved to recommit the bill with instructions to amend so that Senators
              shall be "elected," not "appointed."
             The SPEAKER. The gentleman has not a correct copy of the bill. The original is
              correct, requiring no amendment in that respect.
            Messrs. BIGGS, RUDDELL and BALLENGER held that the bill now goes to the files--the
              reports only constituted the special order.
            Mr. WILSON stated the order. The minority of the Committee holding that the
              Legislature has not the Constitutional right to pass the bill; and the mojority
              recommending the passage of the bill, [H. R. 291]; he held that the rejection of the
              minority report can not be the adoption of the report of the majority--the rules
              regarding the report of the minority as an amendment went to the report of the
              majority.
            The SPEAKER held that the rejection of the minority report leaves the matter as
              though no minority report had not been made. In this state of the majority report it
              is simply received. The amendment can not be acted on till the bill is read the second
              time.
            Mr. BIGGS said as we have got through with the special order, he would move to return
              to the regular order of business; but first he called for the reading of the journal
              of the action of the House making this special order--which was done--to show that the
              bill [H. R. 291], was not included in the special order.
            Mr. ZENOR. It was just as well understood that this bill should be considered today,
              as it was that we should consider these reports.
            Mr. BALLENGER held and enforced the point made by Mr. Biggs.
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM. If the bill was not in the special order, why order that the bill be
              printed for the use of members to-day ?
            Mr. BRITTON. We could not consider the report while the bill was not here, and after
              further debate
            The SPEAKER held that the bill is still before the House--the question being on the
              second reading; and then the bill was ordered by a vote of the House to be read a
              second time.
            Mr. BIGGS moved, ineffectually, that the bill be considered in Committee of the Whole
              House yeas, 42; nays, 49. The bill was then read the second time by clerk, with the
              committee amendments.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, submitted an amendment, which he subsequently withdrew.
            Mr. BIGGS also submitted an amendment.
            Mr. RHODES also submitted an amendment, which he subsequently withdrew.
            The SPEAKER. The House will first vote on the amendment recommended by the special
              committee.
            Mr. SABIN hoped the amendment proposed by the committee would not be adopted. The
              present apportionment with regard to his county and those apjoining was as just and
              equal as it could be made.
            Mr. ZENOR demanded the previous question, and under its pressure the amendment of the
              committee was adopted--yeas 49 nays 44.
            Mr. McDONALD moved that the further consideration of the bill be postponed, and  that it be made the special order for Friday at 2
              1/2 o'clock.
            Mr. RUDDELL proposed to make it Friday week, and after several other propositions and
              objections--
            Mr. McDONALD proposed to-morrow morning at 9 o'clock and demanded the previous
              question on the motion.
            Mr. FRIEDLEY and Mr. BIGGS desired to be heard further, but objections prevented.
            There was a second to the previous question and the main question was ordered.
            Mr. BALLENGER demanded the yeas and nays, and they were ordered and being taken
              when
            Mr. FRIEDLEY desired to explain his vote. But objection being made, he desired to be
              excused from voting.
            Mr. RUDDELL moved that the gentleman be excused.
            The SPEAKER. The motion is not in order, neither is the application to be excused.
              The rules prescribe that the application to be excused shall be made before the roll
              call is commenced.
            The vote resulted--yeas 49, nays 43; and the special order was made accordingly.
            Mr. WILLIAMS and Mr. ZENOR presented claims, which were referred without reading.
            On motion of Mr. ZENOR, the Committee on Printing was authorized
              to employ a clerk.
            Messrs. Martin of Wayne, and Stephenson obtained leaves of absence.
            On motion of Mr. NEFF the Committee bill [H. R. 267] to provide for the payment into
              the general fund all monies collected from the State debt sinking fund which may not
              be needed in payment of the State debt, was taken up and passed the final reading in
              the House of Representatives--yeas 90, nays 0.
            On motion of Mr. RUDDELL his bill [H. R. 235] to amend an act to provide a treasury
              system for the State of Indiana, March 1,1859, by adding a section thereto, fixing
              penalties for violation of the provisions of said act, was taken up and put upon its
              passage--the vote resulting yeas 46, nays 44-being less than a constitutional
              majority.
            Mr. TEBBS submitted a resolution authorising the State Printer to print a thousand
              copies of the acts of the present session in the German language, the same to be
              distributed, &c.
            Mr. BUTTERWORTH moved to lay it on the table--but--
            The resolution was adopted.
            Mr. TAYLOR moved to take up the committee report for the supplemental fee bill, [H.
              R. 344,] which he said he regarded as essential to make the fee bill practicable.
            Mr. WILSON. The motion is not in order.
            The SPEAKER (Mr. Neff in the Chair.) The gentleman from Allen is in order.
            The motion was rejected.
            Mr. NETHERTON asked and obtained leave to report from the special committee thereon a
              bill [H. R. 366] describing the northern and western boundary lines of the county of
              Starke, in this State, etc.
            He also submitted a joint resolution for a memorial to Congress to confer suffrage on
              females over twenty-one years of age. Also a resolution for an allowance of $60 to
              Samuel Beatty for expenses incurred in the Beaty-Pealle contest, in the 46th session
              of the General Assembly.
            The House then, at 6 o'clock, adjourned.
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            THURSDAY, February 28, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 10 o'clock A. M., pursuant to the adjournment under the rules--the
            Lt. Governor in the Chair.
          Chaplain services were conducted by Rev. L. M. WALTERS, of the Strange Chapel Methodist
            Episcopal Church.
          
            EXECUTIVE MESSAGE.
            A message from the Governor was immediately announced, and the Lt. Governor
              recognizing the executive messenger (Capt John M. Commons)he read a communication from
              the Governor, informing the Senate of the resignation of thirty-four members of the
              House of Representatives, and that His Excellency had accepted the said resignations.
              [It is printed in the House proceedings following.]
            Mr. HOOPER then obtained the floor, and moved that when the Senate adjourn it adjourn
              till 2 o'clock P. M. to-morrow.
            The motion was agreed to.
          
          
            BREVIER REPORTS.
            Mr. HENDERSON offered a resolution authorizing pay for the usual number of the
              BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          
          
            INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR makes the committee authorized by Mr. Caven's resolution,
              adopted just before adjournment yesterday, to investigate the charge "that at the
              session of the General Assembly of this State which convened in January, 1869, money
              or pecuniary consideration was paid by the National Banks of this State to some of the
              members of the Senate Judiciary Committee of such session, to
              induce them to report against, and use their influence to prevent the passage of an
              act presented to such Senate providing for the taxation of the capital stock of such
              banks for municipal purposes," to consist of Messrs. Steele, Denbo, Taylor, Rosebrugh
              and Beardsley.
            The motion was agreed to.
            Mr. GRAY moved that the Senate do now adjourn.
            The Senate then adjourned till 2 o'clock to-morrow.
          
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            THURSDAY, February 23, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M. The Speaker calling to order.
          Mr. McDONALD moved for a call of the House.
          
            THE QUORUM QUESTION.
            A message from the Governor by the hand of John M. Commons, his private secretary,
              was now announced and presented. It was read by the Clerk and is as follows:
            
              
                
                  EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, Indianapolis, February 23,
                    1871.
                  MR. SPEAKER--I am directed by the Governor to transmit to
                    the House his message, announcing his receipt and acceptance of the resignations
                    of thirty-four members of the House.
                  
                    JOHN M. COMMONS,
                      Private Secretary. 
                
              
            
            
              Gentlemen of the Senate and House of Representatives:
            
            Thirty-four members of the House of Representatives of the present General Assembly
              of the State of Indiana have placed their written resignations of their offices as
              members of said House of Representatives in my hands, as Governor of the State, and
              have consequently ceased to be members of said House of Representatives.
            The following are the names of the Representatives who have thus resigned, with the
              names of the counties of which they were Representatives, to wit:
            Wm. S. Ballenger, Representative from the county of Wayne.
            Fielding Beeler, Representative from the county of Marion.
            Hiram S. Biggs, Representative from the county of Kosciusko.
            W. W. Butterworth, Representative from the county of St. Joseph.
            Edward Calkins, Representative from tho counties of Kosciusko and Fulton.
            Wm. H. Calkins, Representative from the county of Porter.
            W. W. Conner, Representative from the counties of Hamilton and Tipton.
            G. W. Friedley, Representative from the county of Lawrence.
            Anthony E. Gordon, Representative from the county of Boone.

            

            Wm. Heilman, Representative from the county of Vanderburgh.
            Benj. F. Hill, Representative from the counties of Rush and Decatur.
            Robert P. Hooker, Representative from the county of Vanderburgh.
            A. M. Kennedy, Representative from the county of Rush.
            Edward King, Representative from the county of Marion.
            T. M. Kirkpatrick, Representative from the county of Howard.
            John S. Knight, Representative from the counties of Wabash and Miami.
            T. S. Lines, Representative from the counties of Henry and Madison.
            John R Millikan, Representative from the county of Henry.
            Elam Myers, Representative from the county of Elkhart.
            George A. Netherton, Representative from the counties of Laporte and Starke.
            W. Rawles, Representative from the county of Lagrange.
            Wm. P. Rhodes, Representative from the county of Warren.
            James H. Ruddell, Representative from the county of Marion.
            S. C. Sabin, Representative from the county of Steuben.
            David Sayers, Representative from the county of Wabash.
            James P. Snodgrass, Representative from the county of Delaware.
            Robert T. St. John, Representative from the county of Grant.
            Asahel Stone, Representative from the county of Randolph.
            William T. Strickland, Representative from the county of Decatur.
            Henry A, White, Representative from the county of Vermillion.
            Oliver M. Wilson, Representative from the county of Marion.
            Benjamin F. Williams, Representative from the counties of Fayette and Union.
            Martin Wood, Representative from the county of Lake.
            John E. Woodard, Representative from the county of Parke.
            Said resignations were all presented to and accepted by me on the 22d day of
              February, 1871, after the adjournment of the House on that day.
            CONRAD BAKER
              Governor of Indiana.
            The SPEAKER said the first thing in order would be to consider the demand for a call
              of the House.
            On motion of Mr. McDONALD, the proceedings thereunder were dispensed with.
            The SPEAKER then said: If there was no objection--no contingency--to prevent the
              first thing would be the special order, to wit: The consideration of Mr. Cauthorn's
              bill [H. R. 291] to amend sections 2 and 3 of the act to fix the number of Senators
              and Representatives in the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, and to apportion
              the same among the several counties.
            Mr. MITCHELL considered that we ought to be thankful for the resignations just
              announced by the Governor. We can now proceed to do business without obstruction. We
              have the authority of the greatest man in the United States that we still have a
              quorum present, and I propose that we act upon it. We have also the opinion of the
              present Governor, that we may do business, notwithstanding these resignations. Now, I
              have confidence in Gov. Baker--and we all have confidence in him--that he will not go
              back upon himself. Then we may proceed to business according to Republican
              authorities. I know sir, that generally, these are not very good precedents--not very
              safe to follow, but still I think we ought to thank our stars that we are least
              permited to go on with bustness without the obstructions of such an element as we have
              just got rid of. (Humorousness and laughter.) They said when our members resigned two
              years ago that they did right; and I say now that these have done right. We have at
              least this precedent. They went on and did business without a quorum; and it was held
              to be legal. They proposed even to amend the general constitution.
            The SPEAKER The Chair understands the gentleman to take this position: that this
              General Assembly without a quorum, passed upon an amendment to the Constitution of the
              United States; and therefore that this House can pass laws without a quorum.
            Mr. MITCHELL. Undoubtedly: two-thirds can form a quorum.
            Mr. DEPUTY and Mr. FURNAS demanded a call of the House.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, demanded the yeas and nays.
            The SPEAKER The Chair holds that the demand for the ayes and nays are not in
              order.
            A message was now received from the Senate by their Secretary, Mr. Harrison,
              announcing the passage of sundry House and Senate propositions.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, objected to receiving the message, because, there it no
              quorum.
            The SPEAKER. Nothing can interrupt the message from the Senate.
            The message was then read by the Secreretary of the Senate.
            Mr. BROWNING rose to a point of order. It is out of order for the gentleman from
              Jefferson, (Mr. Deputy) or any other gentleman, to demand the ayes and noes; because
              from the message of the Governor we ere officially informed that we have no quorum. I
              do not propose to follow those corrupting proceedings and precedents of two years ago
              which had the approval of Governor Morton and others who have gone before us. We have
              but one straight forward duty here, and that is, when we are officially informed that
              we have not a quorum--that is to adjourn. We can do no business whatever. We are just
              as certainly informed and officially too--that we are without a quorum, as can be by a
              call of the House, and by sending for absentees They have resigned and gone home. I
              think the other side expected us to do just exactly what we  are not going to do to patch up the infamous record which
              they have made heretofore. [Applause.]
            Mr. DEFREES rose to this point: The gentleman has no right to make such sweeping
              statements and such charges, while making a point of order.
            Mr. MITCHELL, There is no quorum, and the gentleman has a right to say what he
              pleases.
            Mr. SIMPSON. I simply desire to return thanks to the member from Jefferson (Mr.
              Deputy) for the high compliment he has paid the Democracy of his county by refusing to
              resign.
            The SPEAKER. My mind is made up on the question as to the demand for the yeas and
              nays. I am still willing to hear the views of gentlemen if they are adverse to my own.
              I know that Governor Morton and others have held that, under these circumstances there
              might be a quorum, and gentlemen here may hold that way. The gentleman from Brown (Mr.
              Browning) makes the point that we have not a quorum; and if that is correct gentlemen
              have no right to demand the yeas and nays.
            Mr. McDONALD claimed the floor.
            The SPEAKER. The question is whether we have a quorum.
            Mr. McDONALD. If we have a quorum, the motion of the gentleman from Jefferson, (Mr.
              Deputy,) is in order, and the gentleman from Putnam has the right to demand the yeas
              and nays.
            The SPEAKER. I hold that if we have a quorum the gentleman has a right to the
              demand.
            Mr. MILES. We have been notified that 34 members of the House have resigned. Then we
              have but 66 members, and we are without a quorum. I submit therefore that our duty is
              plain. The only thing we can do properly is to adjourn from day to day.
            Mr. McDONALD. This is a question of law--of the constitutional rights of the House
              and of the people of Indiana. As to the dogma which has been proclaimed by prominent
              individuals, that less than 67 members can constitute this House legitimately, I
              belteve it is not to be found in our State constitution. We have here to-day just 65
              members--without Schoenemann, but 65 members -the rest have resigned to break the
              quorum here. They knew upon their own oaths that they would break a quorum--and do you
              suppose, sir, that we will disregard our oaths and go on and make laws? It was just
              when we were about to do something that the people have demanded, that they handed in
              their resignations to break this quorum, and tempt us to do business without
              authority. As for the opinion of Oliver P. Morton, it has no more authority to my mind
              than that of the lowest negro in the State of Indiana.
            The SPEAKER reminded the gentleman that debate upon the point of order must be brief,
              and restricted.
            Mr. McDONALD. Very well, Mr. Speaker. I say that we cannot legally and
              constitutionally transact business here with less than 67 members present; and if the
              House undertake to do business I shall enter my protest against it. But I do not think
              gentlemen will insist upon the transaction of business. We have a constitution
              prescribing our duty clearly, and it is mandatory. And the doctrine that less than 67
              members can do business here, is not only revolutionary, but it is wrong--a violation
              of public law, and a stench in the nostrils of the people.
            Mr. NEFF. Mr. Speaker
            The SPEAKER. The Chair would prefer to hear gentlemen on the other side.
            Mr. NEFF. My position is that there is only one way in which we can determine whether
              there is a quorum, and that is by a call of the House. It is my opinion that the
              demand for a call of the House is in order.
            The SPEAKER. The Chair decides that thirty-four members having resigned, there is no
              quorum, unless it be true that less than two-thirds can constitute a quorum. This is
              purely a legal question, and I am willing to hear gentlemen upon it.
            Mr. BROWNING. Understanding that we have but sixty-six members, I think our duty is
              clear--that we should adjourn from day to day.
            The SPEAKER. I have no question about that. But if any gentleman desires to show that
              we have a quorum, I would be glad to hear him.
            Mr. MILES. I think the demand for a call of the House is in order, for the reason
              that the journal of the House should be made to show that there is not a quorum.
            The SPEAKER. The journal shows that there are 66 members. If 66 members do not make a
              quorum, then clearly we are without a quorum. But the Chair will hear any gentleman
              that desires to present the other view of the question.
            Mr. TAYLOR. It seems to me that there is not a quorum. But still it is proper that we
              should have a call of the House. That is the point I desire to make--that
              notwithstanding we do know there are but sixty-five members, still the call is in
              order.
            The SPEAKER. But the question is whether we have the right to demand the yeas and
              nays. I decide that we have not if we have no quorum.
            Mr. TAYLOR. That motion it seems to me, ought to be order. If it be held, as
              supposed, that sixty-five members may constitute a quorum, then two-thirds of that
              number is a quroum. As to the other question--
            Mr. CUNNINGHAM (interposing.) Do you consider that we have a quorum?
            Mr. TAYLOR. I have expressed no opinion. If we have but 65 present it will be for the
              House to determine that, when it is found out who are present. I cannot but think that
              the gentleman's demand for a call of the House is in order.
            The SPEAKER. The House having been notified by the Governor that more than one-third
              of the body have resigned, I decide that we have no quorum and can do nothing but to
              adjourn till to-morrow.
            Mr. DEFREES, Mr. Speaker, it seems to  me that
              by the Constitution, as well as what is set forth in our rules, it is clear enough
              that we may call the House. He read from the 13th and 14th rules of the House to show
              that eight members may call the House to order and compel the attendance of absent
              members by fine and censure. He read also from the 14th rule the order of proceedings
              upon the call of the House, holding that there is clearly the right of a call of the
              House, not only to determine who are absent but who are present and in their places.
              Members can claim this as a right, not merely as matter of information here, but
              elsewhere.
            Mr. MILES. In the first place we should have a call of the House, and thereupon will
              arise the question of a quorum. That will determine, or then it may be determined,
              whether there is a quorum sufficient for the transaction of business.
            Mr. ZENOR moved that the House adjourn till to-morrow morning at nine o'clock.
            Mr. SIMPSON. I understand that the chair has entertained the motion for adjournment,
              and I suppose there can be no discussion under that motion.
            The SPEAKER. The chair will still hear gentlemen on the question of order. I decided
              that no call of the House can show a quorum, or no quorum, with more clearness; but
              members shall have the right to set forth their views by reasoning.
            Mr. WASHBURN. Has not the Speaker the right to adjourn the House without motion?
            The SPEAKER. I think I have, but I prefer to take the question.
            Mr. MARTIN of Putnam. I ask again for a call of the House to determine a quorum.
            The SPEAKER declined again to entertain the demand.
            And then at 35 minutes past nine o'clock the House adjourned till to-morrow morning 9
              o'clock.
          
          
            FEES AND SALARIES.
            The following explanations pending the final passage in the House of Representatives
              on the 15th of February, of the Henderson Fee and Salaries Bill, [S. No. 4,] were with
              others submitted to the Clerk by unanimous consent, and so failed at the time to find
              their proper place in these Reports:
            Mr. DEFREES. I vote for this bill under protest, believing that if the majority of
              this House had extended to the true friends of reform that courtesy that was their
              due, and not sprung the previous question so as to prevent wholesome amendments being
              made that would have made a fee bill in fact, that might have afforded relief to the
              people and at the same time given county officers a fair compensation for their labor.
              This bill fails to do either, only in a very limited extent. It increases the costs to
              litigants, which is wrong; and it does not reduce the fees of officers much below
              one-half what the people demand. Believing, from the temper manifested by a majority
              here, that this is the only proposition that this House will entertain this session
              upon fees and salaries, and hoping that at least a small reduction of fees may be
              accomplished by the bill and serve as an entering wedge for the future in this
              direction, I vote aye.
            Mr. MYERS. Mr. Speaker, I wish to change my vote. I voted against the bill hoping to
              defeat it, and then reconsider it; take it up section by section and amend some of its
              most objectionable features. But I see all hope of accomplishing this has passed.
              Although the bill accomplishes but a small part of the reform demanded by my
              constituents and has many objectionable features. I prefer to be seconded in its favor
              rather than oppose any measure for retrenchment work, though it may be when there is
              no hope of getting anything better this session.
          
          
            AGENT OF STATE.
            On the seventh of February Mr. McDonald, for a minority of the Judiciary
                Committee, introduced a substitute bill, [H. R. 265,] to so amend the act
              creating an Agent of State as to make his annual compensation $1,000, and upon the
              final passage thereof under a suspension of the constitutional restriction the
              explanation of Mr. Stone of Randolph county was incorrectly reported in that he was
              made to approve of the report of the said minority. His explanation was as
              follows:
            Mr. STONE. Early in the session, on the 9th of January, I introduced a bill [H. R.
              20] to abolish the office of Agent of State, with a provision that, if deemed
              necessary, a temporary Agent of State should be appointed by the Governor, by and with
              the advice and consent of the Senate. From some cause the Committee on the
                Judiciary, to whom the bill was referred, did not report until recently.
              The majority of the committee recommended that my bill be indefinitely postponed; the
              minority reported that the bill pass, with an amendment, that the salary of said Agent
              of State do not exceed one thousand dollars; and the matter was made the special order
              for to day at 10 o'clock. As that officer's election comes off on to-morrow, there is
              but little time left for us to act. I am in favor of the abolition of the office,
              thinking there is no need of such an officer; but as my political friends on the
                Judiciary Committee have in their report recommended that the
              salary shall not exceed one thousand dollars, which if passed amounts to an allowance
              of that sum; and as this bill now pending only allows one thousand dollars per annum,
              there is nothing to be gained by defeating this measure and voting on the reports of
              the Committee, I therefore hope that this bill will pass, and I vote "Aye."
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            FRIDAY, February 24, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 2 o'clock p. M.--the Lieutenant Governor in the Chair. Immediately
            upon the call of the President for "order"--
          Mr. SCOTT moved that when the Senate adjourns, it adjourn till Monday at 2 o'clock P.
            M.
          The motion was agreed to, and thereupon, as soon as the announcement of the result was
            made by the Lieutenant Governor--
          Mr. MARTINDALE moved that the Senate do now adjourn.
          The yeas and nays were demanded on this motion by one-tenth of the members, and they
            were ordered and taken. Previous to making known the result--
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR said: Before the result is announced I want to say a word or two to
            the Senate in regard to the resolution pending at the time of the adjournment yesterday.
            It is a resolution to pay some expenses of the General Assembly in regard to the BREVIER
            REPORTS. I don't think the resolution is in order, for the reason that I concur in the
            statement made in the Sentinel this morning by leading Democratic members, that the
            forty-seventh session of the General Assembly was abruptly terminated on the 23d instant
            by the resignation of thirty-four members of the House. I do not think we can do any
            legislative business of any sort; therefore, I shall decline to sign any bills or
            receive any messages from the remaining members of the House. Having over held that it
            takes two thirds of the members elected to constitute a House, and having official
            information that the House has not that number, and believing the General Assembly is
            composed of a Senate and House, when one of its component parts is destroyed, I don't
            believe we have any legislative functions whatever.
          Mr. BRADLEY inquired what is the resolution.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR directed it to be read, and it was read by the Secretary.
          Mr. BRADLEY then inquired if it was a joint resolution.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. No sir.
          Mr. BRADLEY. It is simply a resolution of the Senate.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR, It is simply a resolution providing for the payment of these
            expenses of the General Assembly.
          Mr. BRADLEY. You decide that out of order.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. I do.
          Mr. BRADLEY. I appeal from the decision.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. The appeal may be entered.
          Mr. GREEN. I rise to a point of order. The result of the vote has not been
            announced.
          Mr. KEIGWIN. I ask that my name be called.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. Unless the Senator was within the bar when his name was called he
            can not vote except by unanimous consent.
          Mr. HENDERSON. Would it be in order to move a call of the Senate.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. No sir. The result of the vote is yeas 21, nays 19, so the Senate
            stands adjourned till Monday at two o'clock p. m.
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            FRIDAY, February 24, 1871.
          
          Mr. McDONALD took the Chair at 9 o'clock a. m., which was soon after assumed by the
            SPEAKER.
          Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, demanded a call of the House, which was ordered and proceeded
            showing 43 members present as follows:
          
            
              
                Messrs. Abbett, Britton, Browning, Bruner, Caldwell, Cauthorn, Coggswell, Copner,
                  Cox, Cunningham, Defrees, Deputy, Devon, Donham, Furnas, Galletine, Goble, Hardin,
                  Hawley, Haynes, Hynes, Martin of Putnam, McDonald, McFarland, McGowan, Minich,
                  Miles, Mitchell, Monroe, Montgomery, Neff, Oatley, Sansberry, Shutt, Stanley,
                  Stephens, Stephenson, Taughinbaugh, Taylor, Washburn, Warrum, Zenor and Mr.
                  Speaker--43.
              
            
          
          But before any result of the call of the House was announced--
          On motion of Mr. MITCHELL, the proceedings thereunder were dispensed with by  unanimous consentsaving a few counter motions to
            take up the Bug Bill, to indefinitely postpone the roll-call, and to adjourn sine die; which were promptly ruled out.
          
            VETO OF THE STATE AGENT BILL.
            The Doorkeeper announced a message from the Governor, which was received by the
              Speaker at the hand of John M. Commons, Executive Messenger, and laid on the table
              without action.
            The message is as follows:
            
              Gentlemen of the House of Representatives:
            
            I herewith respectfully return to the House of Representatives, in which it
              originated, enrolled act of the House No. 265, entitled "An act to amend an act
              entitled an act prescribing the duties and fixing the compensation of the Agent of
              State," approved June 17, 1852, with my objections to its becoming a law.
            At the commencement of the session I recommended the abolition of the office of Agent
              of State, and the transfer of its duties to the Auditor and Treasurer of State, and
              subsequently I drew a bill (which was introduced into the Senate) to carry out this
              recommendation. No provision, however, was made for the abolition of the office, or
              the transfer of say of its duties to any other officer.
            The duties of Agent of State remain as heretofore, except that the outstanding
              indebtedness of the State, to be paid by him is reduced to a comparatively small sum.
              There are, however, still outstanding:
            
              
                War loan bonds to the amount of.............
                $178,000
              
              
                And 5 and 2 1/2 per cent. certificates, amounting to
                  about...............................
                65,000
              
              
                Making a total of...........................
                $243, 000
              
            
            The Agent of State must pay the interest on these war loans, semi-annually, in the
              the City of New York, and he may if they are presented, be required to pay the entire
              amount, of the principal thereof, within the next two years. He must also pay the
              principal of the five and two and a half per cent. certificates that are still
              outstanding, as they may be presented.
            From this statement it is manifest that the Agent of State may be required to
              disburse, including interest, some $260,000, more or less, within this and the
              succeeding year; and this disbursement must be made in the city of New York. The Agent
              of State is required by law to give, and has given official bonds, with approved
              securities, to the amount of $250,000, and he must either be in New York and make the
              disbursement personally, or he must entrust a large amount of money to an agent or
              deputy in that city, and be responsible with his securities on his official bonds for
              the safety and proper application of the money. The existing statute allows the State
              Agent (besides reasonable attorney's fees, postage, and stationery) for his services
              and expenses touching such agency, the sum of twenty-fire hundred dollars.
            The amendatory act herewith returned, provides that the agent of State shall receive
              "for his services and all expense of said office, including attorneys fees, postage,
              and stationary, office rent, clerk hire, and all incidental expenses pertaining to and
              touching such agency, an annual compensation of five hundred dollars."
            This statement shows that the compensation proposed by this bill is wholly inadequate
              to the duties and responsibilities of the office; and the bill itself a hasty and
              inconsiderate act of legislation, which ought not to become a law. No man who intends
              to act honestly, could or would accept the office, and perform its duties for any such
              compensation, and it is not good policy on the part of the State, by such illiberal
              legislation, to invite her officer to speculate on the public funds. Officers should
              be adequately compensated; but the use of public money for private gain, either by
              speculating upon it, or by receiving interest for its use, ought not to be
              tolerated.
            CONRAD BAKER,
                Governor.
            Executive Department, Feb. 24, 1871.
            The SPEAKER overruled the objection of Mr. MILES to receiving the executive message,
              holding that it may be received without a quorum and stating that he would receive it
              officially if he were here alone. It was left, of course, without the action of the
              body.
            Several gentlemen humorously dissented from the decision of the chair, indicating
              protests and resignations to offset the tyranny of the chair.
          
          
            THE QUORUM QUESTION.
            Mr. MITCHELL humorously deprecated any discussion of the quorum question, since it
              has been settled long ago by Governor Morton, and more recently by himself.
            Mr. TAYLOR, amongst many others, took the floor on this question and was heard so far
              as to give the opinion pretty clearly over the voices of others, that this is a
              question to be determined by the House, and not by the decision of the Chair. Suppose
              the Chair should entertain the opinion that 65 members may do business, and a majority
              of the House should be of the opinion that it requires 67 members to do business,
              would it be right in the Chair to entertain business? Certainly not. Then it seems to
              me that the Chair can not decide (without the House) that we are unable to do business
              with less than 67. While it is not material to me what course the House shall
              take--whether we adjourn--without day to-morrow or not--I desire myself to go upon the
              record as believing that 65 members on this floor do, for some purposes, constitute an
              organized body. I believe that it is competent here to make a motion to adjourn; and I
              believe that we can not be compelled to adjourn till we get ready to adjourn. An
              adjournment sine dis would be a legislative act. I want to protest
              against the opinion that members here, less than 67 in number, are not members of the
              House of Representatives--are not a body, an organized branch of the General Assembly.
              But if it should come  to be a question here--and
              I will not make it myself--whether or not we may receive messages from the Governor
              and from the other end of the Capitol--I think that will be a question for us to
              decide. Still, if the decision should be otherwise, I shall take no appeal--being
              content in this matter simply to assert our rights and functions as members of this
              body.
            After further talk across the House, capcious, humorous and dilitory, in which many
              members indulged, and which it is not the object of these reports to preserve--
            At 10:05 o'clock--
            The SPEAKER adjourned the House till to-morrow morning at 9 o'clock.
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          ACTS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY.
          
            Acts and Joint Resolutions Passed by the Forty-Seventh General Assembly of
              the State of Indiana, at the Regular Session, Begun and Held in the City of
              Indianapolis, January 5, 1871; Embracing the Number of the Bill, its Author's Name,
              Title, Inscription, and the Time the Law Takes Effect, with Date of approval.
          
          
            PREPARED BY W. H. DRAPIER.
          
          
            Except when otherwise stated, these Acts take effect on the
              publication of the Laws, the time of which will be made known by Proclation of the
              Governor.
          
          
            
              Senate Bills
            
            Introduced by Mr. Bradley:
            S. 1. An act to legalize bonds of cities issued to aid in the construction of water
              works and the sale and hypothecation of such bonds; to legalize orders, resolutions
              and ordinances of cities for the construction of water works, and all acts done and
              contracts made under and in pursuance thereof; and to authorize the issue and sale of
              bonds, and negotiations of temporary loans, to raise money to carry out and comply
              with contracts heretofore made for the establishment and construction of water works,
              and to fully complete said works.
            [The city of Laporte having issued such bonds, and being unable to sell the same by
              reason of doubts existing in the minds of persons who would otherwise purchase, as to
              the power of said city to issue said bonds. This act, while general in terms, is
              passed for the immediate relief and benefit of said city of Laporte.]
            It was approved by the Governor January 20, 1871. This act took effect from and after
              its passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Henderson :
            S. 4. An act regulating the fees and salaries and duties of certain officers therein
              named, and prescribing penalties for the violation of its provisions.
            [It fixes the compensation of State and county officers.]
            Approved, by the Governor, February 21, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passoge. Five thousand copies will be printed immediately and distributed to the
              several counties of the State by the Secretary of State.
            Introduced by Mr. Martindale:
            Sec. 21. An act to amend section thirty-nine of an act entitled "An act defining
              felonies and prescribing punishment therefor."
            It amends said section so that it shall read as follows: "If any officer entrusted
              with the administration of justice, or any person holding any office of trust or
              profit under the laws of this State, or any member of General Assembly of this State
              or any officer thereof, or any member of any Board of Common Council or any
              incorporated city, or Trustee of any incorporated town in this State, shall take any
              money, gift, property, or undue reward to influence his behavior, vote or action in
              office or discharge of official duty; or any porson who shall offer any money, gift,
              property, or undue reward to influence the behavior of such officer or member, shall,
              on conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not exceeding $10,000, and be imprisoned in
              the State prison for any determined period not exceeding ten years, and be ineligible
              to hold any office of trust or profit, and disfranchised for any determined
              period."
            Approved by the Governor, February 9, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Dittemore:
            S. 22. An act to fix the time of holding the Circuit Courts in the Fifth Judicial
              Circuit; requiring all persons to take notice thereof; providing for the return of
              process; and repealing all laws in conflict herewtih; and declaring when this act
              shall effect.
            [This act affects the counties of Owen, Morgan, Monroe, Putnam, Greene and Clay.]
            Approved by the Governor January 25, 1871, and took effect on the first day of
              February, 1871.
            Introduced by Mr. Lasselle:
            S. 23, An act to constitute the Twenty-Fifth Judicial District.
            [It declares that the counties of Cass, Miami and Pulaski shall constitute the
              Twenty-fifth Judicial District of the Common Pleas Court of this State.]
            Approved by the Governor February 3, 1871.
            This act takes effect from and after its passage.

            

            Introduced by Mr. Fuller:
            S. 25. An act regulating the term of the Circuit Courts in the Fifteenth Judicial
              Circuit, and making all process whatever returnable thereto, repealing all laws in
              conflict therewith, and declaring an emergency.
            [It affects the counties of Crawford, Perry, Spencer, Warrick, Posey and
              Vanderburg.]
            Approved by the Governor January 24, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Glessner:
            S. 32. An act to fix the time of holding the Circuit Court in the Twenty-eighth
              Judicial Circuit, composed of the counties of Johnson, Shelby, Brown and Bartholomew,
              and providing for the return of process, and repealing all laws in conflict therewith,
              and declaring an emergency.
            Approved by the Governor February 22, 1871. This act takes effect from and after the
              1st day of March, 1871.
            Introduced by Mr. Williams:
            S.29. An act amendatory of an act accepting the provisions of Congress of the United
              States of America, entitled "An act donating lands to the several States and
              Territories which may provide colleges for the benefit of agriculture and mechanical
              arts, providing for the receipt, investment and management of said donation," passed
              March 6, 1865, and providing for an increase in the number of Trustees in the Purdue
              University, and the election of three members of the State Borad of Agriculture as
              Trustees of Purdue University.
            [It provides that it shall be the duty of the Governor, on the recommendation of the
              State Board of Agriculture, to appoint three persons in addition to those in office,
              as Trustees of Purdue University, whose term shall expire as is provided in the act to
              which this is an amendment.
            Approved by the Governor, January 31, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Beardsley:
            S.48. An act supplemental to an act entitled "An act to authorize and encourage the
              construction of levees, dykes and drains, and the reclamation of wet and overflowed
              lands by incorporated companies, and to repeal all former laws relating to the same
              subject," which act took effect may 22, 1869, and prescribing penalties for the
              violation of provisions thereof.
            [It prescribes restrictions and plans for procedure of all companies whose line of
              ditching shall exceed twenty miles in length before beginning shall file maps in the
              Recorder's office in the counties where work is to be done; shall cause work to be
              done by contract; shall duly advertise; shall let to the lowest responsible bidder,
              etc., etc., etc.]
            Approved by the Governor, February 23, 1871. This act takes effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Francisco:
            S. 105. An act to abolish the Twenty-ninth Judicial Circuit, i. e., the Jefferson
              Ciminal Circuit Court, and to transfer its business to the Circut Court; to provide
              for the jurisdiction of the Circuit and Common Please Courts of Jefferson county in
              cases of felony and misdemeanor, and matters connected therewith.
            [It also provides that the Jefferson Common Pleas Court shall have concurrent
              jurisdiction with the Circuit Court in cases of felonies and misdemeanors.]
            This act took effect without executive approval, February 16, 1871--not having been
              acted upon within three days after presentation.
            Introduced by Mr. Dwiggins:
            S. 145. An act fixing the time of holding courts in the Twelfth Judicial Circuit,
              repealing all laws in conflict therewith, and declaring an emergency.
            [It effects the counties of White, Newton, Jasper, Benton, and Tippecanoe.]
            Approved by the Governor February 7, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Collett:
            S. 152. An an act to extend the time for the completion of railroads in cases in
              which the time has been heretofore extended, and the roads are not yet finished.
            [It gives two years from December 30,1871, to roads organized under the act of May
              12, 1852, whose time has heretofore been extended ten years, and which has expended at
              least $2,000 per mile of the entire length.]
            Approved by the Governor February 23, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Beggs:
            S. 163. An act to authorize the consolidation of Hydraulic companies and to define
              the powers of such consolidated companies.
            Approved by the Governor February 22, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Johnston:
            S. 173. An act legalizing the consolidation of the Logansport, Camden and Frankfort,
              the Franklin and Crawfordsville, and the Crawfordsville and Rockville Railroad
              Companies under the name of the Logansport, Crawfordsville and Southwestern Railway
              Company, and the present organization of the last named company and the proceedings of
              its stockholders and Board of Directors.
            Approved by the Governor February 17, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Robinson:
            S. 175. An act to fix the time of holding the Common Pleas Courts in the county of
              Dacatur, and repealing all laws inconsistent therewith.
            Approved by the Governor February 7, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
          
          
            House Bills.
            Introduced by Mr. Zenor:
            H. R. 2. An act to amend sections four and six of an act entitled "An act prescribing
              the powers and duties of coroners, approved May 27,1852, and providing for an
              emergency.

            

            [It amends the act above referred to by reducing the coroner's jury from fifteen to
              six men.]
            Approved by the Governor February 9, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. St. John:
            H. R. 10. An act to amend section one of an act entitled "An act to amend section
              forty-three of an act entitled an act for the settlement of decedents' estates,
              prescribing the rights, liabilities and duties of officers connected with the
              management thereof and the heirs thereto, and certain forms to be used in such
              settlement." approved July 17. 1852. Approved February 19, 1869.
            [It adds to section forty-three, as amended by the last mentioned act, these words:
                "Provided further, in all cases where the personal estate of such
              decedent shall be insufficient to make said sum of five hundred dollars (for the
              widow) the deficit, whatever it may be, shall constitute a lien on the real estate of
              such decedent, if any there be, and shall be paid in the same order in which judgments
              and mortgages are now paid."]
            Approved by the Governor, February 8, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Tebbs:
            H. R. 11. An act fixing the beginning of the terms of the Court of Common Pleas in
              the county of Dearborn, in the Fifth Judicial District.
            [It provides that on and after the clese of the January Term, 1871, of the Common
              Pleas Court of the county of Dearborn, Fifth Judicial District, the said Court shall
              be held on the first Mondays of May and November.
            Approved by the Governor, February 7, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Williams:
            H. R. 32. An act appropriating $100,000 to defray the expenses of the forty-seventh
              session of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana.
            Approved January 13, 1871. It took effect from and after its passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Guthrie:
            H. R. 38. An act to legalize the official acts of the Board of Trustees of the town
              of Gosport, Owen county, and all other officers of said corporation, under an act for
              the incorporation of towns, defining their powers, providing for the election of the
              officers thereof, and declaring their duties, approved June 11, 1852, and the by-laws,
              rules, regulations and proceedings adopted in pursuance thereof.
            This bill was presented to the Governor, February 2,1871, and not having been acted
              upon within three days thereafter, it took effect without Executive approval on the
              5th day of February, 1871.
            Introduced by Mr. Wilson:
            H. R. 58. An act to establish Superior Courts, defining their jurisdiction and
              providing for the election and compensation of the Judges thereof.
            [It will affect only the county of Marion.]Approved February 15,1871. It took effect
              from and after its passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Minich:
            H. R. 69. An act making specific appropriations for the benevolent institutions.
            The following are the amounts specified: $25,000 to meet existing contracts and
              current expenses of the Insane Hospital, from the 1st of January to the 1st of April,
              1871; $7,000 for the same purposes for the Deal and Dumb Asylum, for the same time;
              $5,000 for the Soldiers' and Orphans' Home; $13,500 to be appropriated to the payment
              of Messrs. Braden & Gay, as per contract, for introducing the Holly Water Works in
              the Insane Hospital.]
            Approved by the Governor February 4, 1871. This act to take effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Hynes:
            H. R. 79. An act to extend the time for the completion of certain railroads, and to
              legalize the acts of their Board of Directors.
            [It extends the time for the completion of such railroads organized under the act of
              May 11, 1852, as shall have, within three years after its incorporation, consolidated
              its stock with the stock of some other company organized and chartered in an adjoining
              State, thereby making one joint stock company, pursuant to the act of February 23,
              1853. Any such consolidated company that shall have expended in good faith within two
              years alter said consolidation, on the construction of the road in this State at least
              fifty thousand dollars, exclusive of officers, salaries and expenses, is granted five
              years from the passage of this act to complete the road in this State.]
            Approved by the Governor February 21, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. St. John:
            H. R. 173. An act to fix the time of holding Circuit Courts, and length of terms
              thereof in the counties composing the Seventh Judicial Circuit of Indiana.
            [It affects the counties of Hancock, Henry, Delaware and Grant.]
            Approved by the Governor February 17, 1871.
            Introduced by Mr. Biggs:
            H. R. 177. An act defining what counties shall constitute the Twenty-First Common
              Pleas District, and to fix the time of holding the Courts therein, and repealing all
              laws inconsistent therewith.
            [It declares "that the counties of Fulton, Kosciusko and Wabash shall constitute and
              compose the Twenty-First Common Pleas District of Indiana."]
            Approved by the Governor February 15, 1871. This act takes effect from and after the
              sixth day of March, 1871.
            Introduced by Mr. Sansberry:
            H. R. 180. An act relative to the disabilities of Circuit Judges to hold and
              discharge the duties of their office, and providing for the appointment of Judges pro tem. during the disability of said Judges.
            [It declares that whenever the Judge of any Circuit Court shall, from sickness, men-
                 tal incapacity, or otherwise, be rendered
              incapable of discharging the duties of his office for nine consecutive months, the
              Governor, upon the certificates of the Clerks of said court of the several counties
              composing said circuit, shall appoint some practicing attorney within said circuit,
              Judge pro tem. during the continuance of the disability of the Judge
              elect, or until the expiration of his term of office. The Judge pro
                tem. has devolved upon him the same duties and obligations that pertained to
              the Judge elect.]
            Approved by the Governor February 15, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Cox:
            H. R. 185. An act for the relief of George L. Reiter and Maria B. Reiter.
            [It releases to them the right of the State to certain lands acquired by escheat by
              the death of E. M. Reiter.]
            Approved by the Governor February 22, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. McDonald:
            H. R. 265. An act to amend an act entitled "An act prescribing the duties of and
              fixing the compensation of State Agent," approved June 17, 1852.
            [It declares that "for his services and all the expenses of said office, including
              attorneys' fees, postage and stationery, office rent, clerk hire, and all incidental
              expenses of his office, pertaining to and touching such agency, he shall receive an
              annual compensation of $500.]
            This act was vetoed by the Governor February 24, 1871.
            Introduced by Mr. ----.
            H. R. 266. An act to amend the sixth section of "an act to provide for the custody
              and management of the notes, bonds and mortgages arising directly out of the loans
              heretofore made by the Board of Sinking Fund Commissioners, to continue in force all
              laws or parts of laws in force on the 20th day of January, 1867, which are applicable
              to such loans and the securities therefor, to clothe the Auditor of State with powers
              and subject him to duties in relation to said loans and securities therefor, which by
              said laws are vested in or imposed upon said Board of Sinking Fund Commissioners, to
              provide for the incidental expenses of the management of said loans and securities,
              including clerk hire, and the modes and payment of said allowance for expenses,
              substituting the seal of the Auditor of State for that of the Board of Sinking Fund
              Commissioners, and declaring an emergency for the immediate taking effect of this act,
              and providing for the Auditor of State to execute bond and payment of all moneys into
              the State Treasury, and adding supplemental sections thereto."
            [It provides for the distribution of the moneyes in said fund whenever the same
              amounts to the sum of $4,000, or more, among the different counties of the State in
              proportion to the number of inhabitants, to be loaned out in the same manner as other
              common school funds are now loaned by law, except that the rate shall be at the rate
              of eight per cent. per annum.]
            Approved by the Governor February 24, 1871.
            This act took effect from and after its passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Donham.
            H. R. 268. An act to provide for changes of venue from Criminal Courts, and
              legalizing changes already granted.
            [It declares that changes of venue may be made from any Criminal Court established in
              any county of this State, for the same cause and under the same regulations as are now
              provided by law for changes of venue from Circuit Courts.
            Approved by the Governor February 9, 1871.
            This act took effect from and after its passage.
            Introduced by the Committee on Rights and Privileges, as a
              substitute for Mr. Defrees' game law bill, H. R. 62:
            H. R. 271. An act providing for the protection of fish, and repealing all laws in
              conflict with the same; prescribing penalties for the violation thereof.
            [It declares that no person shall take any fish with a gig or spear during the months
              of March, April, May, November and December, and no person shall place in any stream,
              lake or pond any lime or other deleterious substances, with the intent to injure fish;
              nor any drug or medicated bait with intent thereby to poison or catch fish.]
            Approved by the Governor February 22, 1871. This act took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Neff:
            H. R. 342. An act to repeal all laws now in force authorizing the levy and collection
              of any tax for State debt sinking fund purposes.
            Approved by the Governor, February 22, 1871. This took effect from and after its
              passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Neff:
            H. R. 343. An act to raise revenue for State purposes for the years 1871 and 1872,
              and for subsequent years, declaring an emergency.
            [It authorizes "a tax for State purposes of five cents on each $100 in value of all
              property entered for taxation in the general list of taxables, and fifty cents on each
              poll subject by law to taxation."]
            Approved by the Governor February 22, 1871. This act to take effect from and after
              its passage.
            Introduced by Mr. Deputy:
            H. R. 345. An act fixing the times of holding courts in the several counties
              comprising the first judicial district of this State, and repealing all laws
              conflicting therewith, and declaring an emergency.
            [It affects the counties of Ripley, Jennings, Jefferson and Switzerland.
            Approved by the Governor, February 23, 1871. This act takes effect from and after its
              passage.
          

          

          
            Senate Joint Resolutions.
            Introduced by Mr. Caven:
            S. 1. A joint resolution proposing an amendment to the constitution, by adding to the
              tenth article a section in relation to the debt charged on the Wabash and Erie
              Canal.
            Introduced by Mr. Keigwin:
            S. 2. A joint resolution ceding to the United States jurisdiction over certain lands
              in Jeffersonville, Indiana, to be used for military purposes.
            Introduced by Mr. Brown:
            S. 3. A joint resolution of instructions to the Senators in Congress representing the
              State of Indiana, on the suject of annexing San Domingo to the United States.
            Introduced by Mr. Gregg:
            S. 4. A joint resolution instructing our Senators and requesting our Representatives
              in Congress with reference to homesteads for soldiers and seamen.
            Introduced by Mr. Hughes:
            S. 6. A joint resolution for the adjustment and collection of claims in favor of the
              State of Indiana. [Authorizing the Attorney General to institute suits if
              necessary.]
            Introduced by Mr. Bradley:
            S. 8. A joint resolution in relation to an appropriation by Congress for the
              completion of the harbor on Lake Michigan at Michigan City.
            Introduced by Mr. Martindale:
            S. 9. A joint resolution directing the disposition to be made of certain Indiana five
              per cent. bonds or stocks now in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the
              United States.
          
          
            House Joint Resolutions.
            Introduced by Mr. Neff:
            H. R. 1. A joint resolution in relation to the granting of pensions to the surviving
              soldiers of the war of 1812.
            Introduced by Mr. Cauthorn:
            H. R. 3. A joint resolvtion instructing the Senators and requesting the
              Representatives in Congress from Indiana to endeavor to obtain an appropriation from
              Congress for the improvement of the navigation of the Wabash river.
            Introduced by Mr. ----:
            H. R. 7. A joint resolution instructing our Senators and requesting our
              Representatives in Congress to secure the passage of a law to equalize the bounties of
              the soldiers and seamen of the United States in the war of the rebellion.
          
          
            RECAPITELATION.
            
              
                Number of bills passed the Senate ..........
                15
              
              
                Number of bills passed the House...................
                18
              
              
                Total number of bills passed into acts.......
                33
              
              
                Number of joint resolutions passed the Senate......
                7
              
              
                Number of joint resolutions passed the House.....
                3
              
              
                Total number of joint resolutions passed......
                10
              
              
                Total number of bills and joint resolutions passed............
                43
              
            
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            SATURDAY, February 25, 1871.
          
          The Senate was not in session to-day.
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            SATURDAY, February 25, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock A. M. The Speaker calling to order.
          Mr. ZENOR moved a call of the House, which being ordered and taken, resulted as
            follows:
          
            
              
                Messrs. Abbett, Britton, Browning, Caldwell, Coggswell, Cox, Defrees, Donham,
                  Gallentine, Guthrie, Henderson, Hendry. Hynes, Martin of Wayne, McDonald,
                  McDowell, McFarland, Minich, Miles, Neff, Oatley, Tebbs, Walker, Wymer, Zenor, and
                  Mr. Speaker--26.
              
            
          
          Mr. MINICH. Mr. Speaker: As all business is out of order, and no motion will be
            entertained by the Chair, I desire to make a suggestion that the clerks of the
            committees be discharged.
          The SPEAKER, I understand the committees were to discharge them when they had no
            further need of their services.
          Mr. MINICH. And another matter, Mr. Speaker: It is not worth while for the papers to
            come to members who have resigned. I therefore think it proper to have them stopped--let
            the Doorkeeper stop these papers.
          A VOICE. Let the Doorkeeper have them stopped.
          Mr. BRITTON, I suggest they are no longer members, and are not entitled to them.
          
            ADJOURMENT SINE DIE.
            Mr. TEBBS. Mr. Speaker, I ask leave to submit the following resolution:
            Mr. MILES and others. "I object." "I object."
            Mr. TEBBS. Hear it read anyhow. Let it be read for information.
            Mr. McDONALD, I have no objection to its being read. It does no harm to read it.The
              Clerk read as follows:
            
              
                
                  WHEREAS, The Governor has notified this House that 34
                    members of the House of Representatives have tendered their resignations of
                    seats in this General Assembly, and have been accepted by him; and--
                  WHEREAS, The number of vacancies thus created has reduced
                    the number of Representatives below the minimum number required by the
                    Constitution for the transaction or legislative business,
                  AND WHEREAS, The interests of the tax
                    payers of the State of Indiana demand that the State shall not be put to the
                    expense of continuing the present session, while it is incompetent to transact
                    business.
                  AND WHEREAS, There is not now time for
                    tho holding of elections to fill said vacancies prior to the time fixed by law
                    for the final adjournment of this General Assembly; therefore,
                  Be it resolved, By the House of Representatives, the Senate
                    concurring, that this General Assembly do now adjourn sine
                    die.
                
              
            
            Mr. TEBBS. Mr. Speaker, I see nothing out of the way in passing that resolution. I
              see no sense in remaining here any longer, and I think it is within the power of the
              Legislature to adjourn sine die.
            A VOICE. "I call the yeas and nays on it."
            Mr. MILES. Mr. Speaker, I object to our going on with the transaction of business
              here. If gentlemen persist in transcending the powers guaranteed to us by the
              Constitution of the State, I will resign my seat and go home.
            The SPEAKER. I hope the gentleman from Sullivan (Mr. Miles) will not be scared away
              so soon. I thought he was made of sterner stuff.
            Mr. MILES. I say if we are going to transcend the powers guaranteed to us by the
              constitution, I will resign.
            The SPEAKER. All you have got to do is to vote against it, unless you want to follow
              the example of other men here and resign.
            Mr. COX. It seems to, me sir, that the only--
            The SPEAKER, (interrupting) I consider this a free caucus.
            Mr. COX, Just a caucus, sir, is all I consider it. I don't understand that there is a
              House here, and I object to action on the resolution of the gentleman from Dearborn,
              (Mr. TEBBS.) After some further humorous remarks--
            Mr. NEFF said: I can not concur with my friend from Sullivan (Mr. Miles) altogether.
              Although I know it is hard to get rid of this question, I only want to make one or two
              suggestions. I confess this is a novel proceeding. As far as I am concerned, I think
              we are in a condition--in fact I am ready to almost aver that our condition is such
              not contemplated by the Constitution, and therefore it makes our condition somewhat
              novel. I only want to say this: It is  well known
              that the Democracy have agreed upon the constitutional qustion that when a House
              consists of 100 members, as ours does, it requires two-thirds of that number to
              constitute a quorum. I do not suppose it is necessary to debate that question.
            Now the only question is, how are we to get away inside of sixty day. The
              constitution says that when there is less than a quorum, we shall adjourn from day to
              day and send for absentees. We know, Mr. Speaker, that there are no absentees to send
              for--if every member were in his seat then there would not be a quorum. We know of the
              fact that thirty-four members have resigned. In view of this fact there can not
              possibly be a quorum. Then the question is, why do a foolish thing by adjourning from
              day to day and sending for absentees, when we can not by any possfble means place
              ourselves in a condition to do public business.
            As I before stated, I do not think the Constitution ever contemplated the condition
              of affairs upon us to day, and I don't care whether you call that a concurrent
              resolution, or whether you call it a joint resolution, or whether you have any
              resolution at all. I am willing at any time to take my share of the responsibility and
              go home for the reason, before stated, that we cannot do any public business, and it
              is simply burdening not only the public, but ourselves. We don't desire to stay
              here--I don't, I am sure.
            I do not want to be capacious about this thing--I am not very tenacious about it, but
              I want sitting members to agree with us of opposite politics in this matter. I have
              not taken the sense of these gentleman, but my opinion is there are but few members of
              the Republican party on this floor who are not here for the purpose of doing some
              public good. I do not believe, Mr. Speaker, although I am not authorized to state it,
              that they indorse the action of those 34 members who have absented themselves from
              these halls of legislation. I believe that the members upon the opposite side here are
              here in good faith and would co-operate with us and do public business if they
              believed they had the power. I admit they have been somewhat reticent, but I am of the
              opinion that they indorse this doctrine, that less than two-thirds of the body can not
              transact legislative business. I believe they would join with us and take their share
              of the responsibility and go home to the people. I do not know just how to get at it.
              I am willing to put my hat on and go home. I do not want to dictate to the Speaker,
              but I would not fear myself to raise that gavil and bring it down for the last time,
              and say that this House is adjourned sine die.
            Mr. DEFREES. Mr. Speaker: I endorse the remarks made by the gentlemen from Putnam
              (Mr. Neff,) but sir, there is another way to obviate any constitutional objection, and
              that is by agreeing to resign. We can accomplish the purpose in that way and I think
              we would be justified in doing so. We have remained here some two or three days since
              this quorum has been broken and it does seem to me extremely foolish to meet here from
              day to day until Monday week, which, I think is the last day of the session under the
              constitutional limitation. Now, sir, I think we can justify ourselves in resigning if
              the act were called in question by our constituents, and I for one will join this
              House in a measure of that kind. Let us send our resignations to the Governor and go
              home and attend to our own affairs.
            We are doing no good here for the public and cannot do any for ourselves. I am
              decidedly in favor of that course, and would like to hear an expression from members
              on this floor in regard to it. It seems to me we cannot arrive at it so well in any
              other way. I believe that we cannot discharge any legislative businees unless there
              are two-thirds of the members present. It seems to me that our constitutional framers,
              when they made the present Constitution, never took into consideration the possibility
              or probability of members resigning. They made provision against members absenting
              themselves from the House by giving us power to brink them back to the House, but, in
              reference to resigning, I think it never entered their minds that such a thing would
              happen, and our Constitution is lame in that particular. But so it is--we can't amend
              it, and I think the next best thing is to resign and go home.
            Mr. BRITTON. Mr. Speaker, I am surprised to hear that proposition coming from the
              quarter it does. Does the gentleman suppose the Governor would accept the resignation
              of the Democratic members of this House now ? I have no idea he would, and I really
              would feel agrieved if we were to send in our resignations and the Governor not be
              willing to accept them. I am decidedly opposed to tempting the Governor in that way;
              consequently I am decidedly opposed to that proposition. I would be in favor of doing
              like the Israelites did, simply go out--simply go out by common consent. I think, Mr.
              Speaker, the only way we should do is to do what is right, and let the consequences
              follow be they what they may.
            Mr. McDONALD. Mr. Speaker--I certainly agree with my friends from Elkhart, (Mr.
              Defrees,) and Putnam, (Mr. Neff.) As far as I am concerned, I am willing to draw pay
              up to this morning and go home. I am willing to take the consequences, and go to the
              people and say I have done the best I could for myself and them. As to our
              constitutional right to stay here, there is no question but that we can stay here
              until the 6th day of March, but I have no doubt if we were to adjoura any time between
              now and the 6th day of March, it would meet with the approbation of the people. The
              only question with us is which will we do. I concur with the gentleman from Dearborn,
              (Mr. Tebbs,) in the main, but, sir, I am opposed to any resolution.
            I would say this, Mr. Speaker, as Democrats and decent Republicans here, let us say
              to each other that we have stayed here so long, tried to do the best we could, and  are ready now to go home, and let the
              responsibility rest with the people. I would not pass any resolution, but simply agree
              among ourselves as men. I would agree with my friend from Elkhart (Mr. Defrees,) that
              we shall say on Monday morning after roll call--the three days have passed and the
              Governor has signed everything, and the Lieutenant Governor declines to do any
              business in the Senate as President of the Senate in fact we are defunct. That's it.
              Let us talk sense. We are played out. We are up a stump--that is just it, I use these
              common expressions, and I think I will be understood. Let us act like sensible men.
              Let us act on the square, and Monday morning come up here, call the roll, bid farewell
              to this Hall, go home,and save the people at least ten or twelve thousand dollars.
            As I said I agree with these gentlemen,but we don't agree to go on the same road. My
              friend from Dearborn (Mr. Tebbs) desires to go one wav and my friend from Putnam (Mr.
              Neff) might desire to go another way. But I think as far as myself and my friends from
              Putnam and Elkhart are concerned we can travel the same road and not hurt us one bit.
              I understand this General Assembly as it is, is costing one thousand dollars a day,
              and I think if we leave on Monday we will save the State at least $8,000, and that
              will do something hereafter towards lengthening the schools, or something of the kind.
              I am ready to go now--to go to-day. I am ready now to say, after we have had a good
              social talk, that we will all quit and go home today. I am perfectly willing to do
              that. I will take the responsibility to go before my people and say that we have done
              the best we could as honest men, and I think gentlemen, we will have but little
              difficulty in explaining our action.
            I agree with my friend from Putnam. I believe those gentlemen on the other side of
              the house have remained here on account of conscientious feeling. I see gentlemen of
              the minority here, men whom I can meet anywhere. I am not afraid to meet them in the
              dark; I can meet them anywhere, and I am not afraid to meet them before the people.
              Let us consider this matter till Monday morning at nine o'clock.
            I am perfectly willing to give gentlemen ample time to understand this matter, and to
              make up their minds about it. My mind is made up, gentlemen. I will say now to this
              side of the House, to my Democratic friends, let us say for ourselves we have done the
              best we could, and now let us do the next best thing we can. That is the idea. We have
              done the best we could, and now let us do the next best thing we can, and go home.
              What can we do, gentlemen? There is nothing in this Constitution that says we shall
              not go home. If there is any gentleman who can show me any word or blot of a type here
              which says we shall not go home, I will remain. Certainly I will. I will say to you,
              gentlemen, that $5 a day has no influence on me in causing me to remain here. Ten
              dollars a day would have no influence with me under the same circumstances.
            Mr. ZENOR. Mr. Speaker, I can not agree with gentlemen on this floor. I can not
              regard the simple act of adjourning this body as being a legislative act.
            Mr. McDONALD (interposing.) Some of the brethren think I am in favor of resigning.
              Not a word of it.
            Mr. ZENOR. I did not understand you so. I am not in favor of resigning either, but I
              am in favor of adjourning this House sine die, and it may be well to
              postpone the further consideration of this resolution till Monday morning at 9
              o'clock.
            Mr. ABBETT (interposing.) Say 2 o'clock.
            The SPEAKER. Say any time you please; the Chair will not entertain any such a
              motion.
            A VOICE. "We will take it by common consent."
            The SPEAKER. I will say this: That at a meeting of the Democratic members of the two
              Houses, this matter was referred to a committee of able lawyers who are to report on
              Monday at 2 o'clock. Is it not rather too hasty in making these speeches at this time
              on this subject?
            Mr. ZENOR. I will speak to the question before the House. I think the resolution is
              right. I, however, will abide the decision of the majority of the members who still
              hold their seats.
            The SPEAKER, (interrupting.) Does the gentleman think the House has the power with
              the number of members we have, to pass a resolution ?
            Mr. ZENOR, I think we have the power to pass a simple resolution, or a concurrent
              resolution to adjourn sine die. I think further, Mr. Speaker, that it is an
              acknowledged fact, there is nobody here to legislate, We have a body here to do
              certain things, however, and among those is the act to adjourn. I hold it is wrong to
              remain here day after day, and I hold that nobody will complain if we adjourn and go
              home, because we can do no further legislative business. I am not willing to endorse
              the doctrine held by our Republican brethren, that we can legislate with less than two
              thirds of the whole number elected to this House, I do not hold to that. I hold that
              we cannot do anything that in itself is a legislative act. Now, sir, this fact is
              recognized by our resinging Republican brethren; notwithstanding when the occasion
              suits them to do otherwise they have sought to support the contrary doctrine, that
              less than two-thirds could do business. They have simply enough of them resigned to
              break a quorum, thus endorsing the fact that it takes 67 members to make a quorum.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam, (interposing.) I will ask the gentleman if the Republicans
              ever entertained the idea that less than a quorum could do legislative business in
              Indiana?
            Mr. ZENOR. Has not Governor Morton supported that doctrine? Did not he approve of the
              passing of the Appropriation bill last session ?

            

            Mr. MARTIN of Putnam. Have not all the prominent Republicans of the State held to the
              position that less than two-thirds can not do legislative business.
            Mr. ZENOR. Their action and their record are to the contrary of that. They have done
              it, as every gentleman here knows. That they have legislated with less than two-thirds
              is a part of the history of the legislation of Indiana. Republicans everywhere have
              indorsed it, and now they come here and when it suits them to do otherwise they hold
              that it takes 67 members of this House to do business. I do not propose to follow any
              precedent taken by them, for I think it wrong to do so; but, Mr. Speaker, this
              resolution, or something like it, ought to be adopted by us. I am willing to remain
              here if it would do any good, but as we can not do any good by remaining, I think we
              have the power to pass this resolution, and I will vote for it.
            Mr. MILES. Mr. Speaker, my position is this: It requires a quorum in each House to
              pass a concurrent resolution, for that is a legislative act, and if this House is
              determined to override the Constitution of Indiana, by recognizing the right of less
              than a quorum of this House to pass a concurrent resolution, I say I would rather
              resign--it would be more honorable to resign, sir, than to violate the Constitution of
              the State of Indiana, which says that it takes two thirds of the members of each House
              to constitute a quorum to do legislative business.
            The SPEAKER. Do I understand the gentleman to say that if he thought an act was to be
              done which he thinks is unconstitutional that that would justify him in resigning? Is
              that his position?
            Mr. MILES. No, sir! I say I would rather resign than submit to a thing of that kind,
              This is my position; I say it is plainly demonstrated to this House that there is no
              quorum present and the only thing we can do under the constitution--for it is plain
              that we can give no forced construction to the Constitution of the State--we can only
              adjourn from day today, and send for absent members, and, sir, rather than submit to
              the passage of a concurrent resolution by both Houses, when this is not a House, I say
              I would rather that this House would disband informally than submit to that infamous
              dogma, that less than 67 members can do legislative business. I say this House has no
              right to recieve messages, or to recieve communications from the other side of this
              Capitol without a quorum, and the Speaker of this House, of course, has no right more
              than any other member upon this floor when there is less than a quorum, for he is
              placed there by the courtesy of this House, and he has no right, even personally, when
              this body is unorganized, to receive a communication, or anything in a legislative
              capacity; and that is my position that we can do nothing here--that we can do nothing
              legally or constitutionally but to adjourn from day to day, and send for absent
              members.
            Mr. MARTIN, of Putnam I do not seek the floor for the purpose of making a speech. It
              seems to me that almost every member of the House is agreed upon the proposition that
              it takes two-thirds of 100 members in this House to to make a quorum; and the only
              question for discussion is, what the powers are of a smaller number than a quorum.
              That is set forth very distinctly in the constitution; they can only adjourn from day
              to day and compel the attendance of absent members. That is all they can do. They have
              no power--less than a quorum--to pass a resolution ' to entertain a motion, or even
              read a paper, to receive a message from the Governor of the State or from the other
              branch of the Legislative Assembly, I think there is a way, as has been suggested here
              this morning, which we can adoptsimply to go home and save the people $9,000. This can
              be done by general consent, not by passing a resolution, not by entertaing a motion of
              any kind, but simply by general consent, all going home and staying there, and then,
              if upon any day, not as many as 7 members met to adjourn from day to day this General
              Assembly comes to an end, and that settles the question. It would not invalidate any
              laws we have passed heretofore. It would be no outrage upon the people nor upon the
              constitution itself, because it is simply nonsense to meet here from to day, when no
              contingency can passibly arise that we can do any good by remaining here. It is too
              late for writs to be issued and the vacancies filled by election. I am not in favor of
              putting it off till Monday, but let us every one go home to-pay and draw no pay
              afterwards.
            Mr. COX. I want to say a word with regard to the propriety as suggested by the
              gentleman from Elkhart (Mr. Defrees) about our going home. Personally, I have no
              objection to that, but, sir, I have no doubt His Excellency, the Governor, is
              intending to call us together. I have no doubt about it at all--and, sir, to incur the
              additional expense of haying an election of 66 members of the General Assembly would
              be a terrible thing. Further than that, sir, the object for which the Governor would
              call us together is a very laudable one--I have no doubt his Excellency will call us
              together so that we may cut down the price of house rent, which, is too high.
              (Laughter.) Why sir, he showed his love for retrenchment not longer ago than
              yesterday, by vetoing that monstrous and infamous bill, cutting down the salary of
              Agent of State to $500. It was so indecent and cor-corrupt that he vetoed it. (Renewed
              laughter.) I have no doubt but that in less than ninety days, he will call a special
              session, therefore I am opposed to resigning. There would have to be issued notices of
              election for sixty-six more Representatives to fill sixty-six more vacancies. That
              won't do. That won't do, sir. I propose to stick. Now I don't care so much about the
              $5 a day, although I am a poor man it is true, but if the balance of the members of
              this House are disposed to donate the remainder of their pay to the Common School Fund
              of townships, I will give mine to the township of  Washington, Miami county. If that is the object--if they are so very afraid of
              drawing a little money when the Constitution ties us here, and we can't get away
              unless we resign or run off, and I don't propose to do either; for I resigned twice,
              and that is as much as I care about. I move to adjourn.
            The SPEAKER. It is not in order.
            Mr. COX. Then I move the previous question.
            The SPEAKER. Not in order; the gentleman will be seated.
            Mr. COX. Oh, don't seat me I [Laughter.]
            Mr. McFARLAND. Mr. Speaker, I want to make an inquiry. If I am correctly informed in
              regard to this matter, I think there is a very easy plan by which we can get away and
              do no violence to ourselves, to the Constitution, to the laws, or to our people. I am
              informed that the Senate, in the other end of this Capitol, are not claiming to do any
              more legislative business.
            The SPEAKER (interposing). We have no official information on that subject. The
              judgment of the Chair is that the Senate has the right to go on and pass all laws that
              have passed this House, and when they are present here, although there is no quorum
              presented. I will hold that I have a right to receive messages and sign bills sent
              from that body, and I will sign all bills that may be sent in from that body;
              therefore I think we ought not adjourn sine die.
            Mr. McFARLAND. I understand.
            The SPEAKER. I think the Senate will go to work passing laws on Monday.
            Mr. McFARLAND. At any rate we are here without a quorum and they have a
              constitutional quorum to do business, and they have the power--
            The SPEAKER (interrupting.) I hold that the simple fact that there is no quorum
              present in this House does not destroy this General Assembly so long as the Senate
              remains a body. I think it would be improper for us to resign. The Senate are acting
              as a body; this is a matter we can take notice of--they met yesterday, and adjourned
              till Monday afternoon, showing that they recognize their right to act as a body.
            Mr. ABBETT. I move that this House adjourn till two o'clock Monday.
            The SPEAKER. That is not in order, sir. There are some gentlemen who would like to be
              heard on this subject, and I would like to hear them. The gentleman from Carroll, Mr.
              McFarland, will proceed.
            Mr. McFARLAND. I presume the House is not desirous of hearing any further remarks at
              this time, therefore I will take my seat all in good humor.
            The SPEAKER. Does the gentleman from Elkhart (Mr Defrees) desire to be heard.
            Mr. DEFREES. I guess it would be useless for me to make any further remarks; but I
              would like to make an inquiry whether it would be in order to make a motion that when
              we do adjourn we adjourn till 2 o'clock Monday.
            The SPEAKER. No. When we adjourn it will be till nine o'clock.
            Mr. COX. I make this point of order that if we can adjourn till two o'clock Monday we
              can adjourn sine die.
            The SPEAKER. Yes. If we could adjourn till two o'clock Monday we could adjourn sine die, and we could adjourn till Monday week two o'clock with the
              concurrence of the Senate.
            Mr. DEFREES referred to the Constitution; but the Speaker maintained his
              position.
            The SPEAKER. I hold that the Senate is a legal body, capable of transacting
              legislative business, and I will state to the gentleman this, that while I entertain
              that legal opinion, I think it would be highly improper for this House to adjourn sine
              die. If there was less than a quorum remaining in the Senate, as there is in the
              House, so it could not transact business, a different question would be
              presented--that was the state of facts existing two years ago.
            Mr. WALKER. I would be very willing to go home. I have no desire to stay here,
              inasmuch as we can do nothingif we can do no good. I, sir, am ready to resign at this
              time;--
            The SPEAKER, (interrupting.) I will State to the gentleman that it is not clear to my
              mind that we can not do any good. The other end of the Capitol may determine to pass
              laws that may be before them, and it may be necessary for us to remain here to receive
              messages. For some purpose we might be a body yet.
            Mr. MARTIN of Putnam. I understand there was a resolution offered this morning to
              adjourn sine die. What has become of it?
            The SPEAKER. I decided it not in order.
            And then without a motion--
            The SPEAKER said: The House is adjourned till Monday morning 9 o'clock.
            --The following is the argument submitted by Mr. STEELE in behalf of Mr. Burson, in
              the Senate, Tuesday, February 21st:
            MR. PRESIDENT--I feel myself inadequate to the
              task imposed upon me to-day of examining the important question now before the Senate,
              it being with me, at least, a question that should receive the candid and careful
              consideration of every Senator. Having taken a severe cold, I do not know that I shall
              be able to make myself heard throughout this Chamber, and I may not be able to speak
              continuously for even half the time that is allotted me.
            I understand the worthy Senator from Jackson to state in his opening speech that this
              question is laid before the Senate as a court having power to hear, power to
              determine, and power to pronounce judgment in the case. I am thankful to the Senator
              for that admission, and I say now to the Senate that if that is true--if, as the
              gentleman says, we are here as a court for the purpose of trying and determining the
              matters submitted to the Senate--our proceedings should be governed by the known and
              recognied rules of law that are applicable to judicial proceedings.

            

            I say to gentlemen now, as I said the other day upon this floor, that this is a
              proceeding thus far wholly unknown and unprecedented, so far as my knowledge extends,
              in the history of judicial proceedings in this country. I know of no instance where a
              man, much less a Senator, has been arraigned for a high crime under the law, without a
              sufficient indictment, presentment or specification properly attested by an oath. Yet,
              Mr. President, when we look at the proceedings in the case now before the Senate, we
              find that they have no such foundation to rest upon. And for the purpose of showing
              that fact I will read the petition, or remonstrance, or if you please the indictment,
              or whatever else the gentleman may see proper to call it:
            [Here the speaker read the remonstrance upon which the proceedings were based. See
              printed proceedings, page 8.]
            Now, Mr. President, the honorable Senator says we are sitting "as a court," to
              determine the question whether John W. Burson has been guilty of the high crime of
              bribery, thus disqualifying himself, under the provisions of the constitution, from
              occupying a seat upon this floor. I take the position, sir, that this charge that I
              have just read, and upon which this whole proceeding is founded, would not be
              sufficient to authorize a justice of the peace to hold a man to trial for the lowest
              misdemeanor known to our statute book. Suppose it were charged that the
                said John W. Burson, on, &c, at, &c., did commit an assault and battery
                upon "divers citizens of the county of Delaware; " will any lawyer tell me that
              a charge so general as that would be a good charge of an assault and battery?
              Certainly not. Then let me ask Senators if this is a sufficient charge to justify this
              body in placing John W. Burson on his trial for one of the highest crimes known to our
              Statute Book? Now, gentlemen, let us be honest in this matter. Let us either determine
              that it is not necessary that there should be any specification whatever in cases of
              this kind, or else let us require at the hands of those persons who remonstrate
              against a Senator's taking his seat, that they shall be at least as particular in a
              matter of that great importance as they would be in a case of assault and battery.
            I know that it is claimed by gentlemen upon this floor that this question might have
              been determined upon a mere motion. I challenge gentlemen to cite me to a precedent of
              that kind. Look through your judicial proceedings; examine your reports from the first
              to the last, and show me a single case of such magnitude where there has ever been a
              trial upon a mere motion. "Why, sir, what is the object of making a charge at all? We
              understand the object to be, to inform the defendant of some specific thing that is
              alleged against him, in order that he may be prepared to meet that charge by the
              proper proof. Does this charge inform John W. Burson of anything? No. The accusers
              make their allegations as broad as the two counties of Madison and Delaware; they say
              he has offered bribes to "divers citizens" of those counties, without specifying a
              single man! Now I take the liberty of saying that whenever you find a man making
              charges against his neighbors in this general form, and when he is unwilling to risk
              his reputation by making those charges more specific even in a statement made without
              the sanction of an oath, that man is engaged in a business that he considers
              disreputable or it telling something that he knows very little about. If these
              petitioners knew that bribes were offered they must have known to whom they were
              offered, and they ought to have been ready and willing to specify when they made the
              charge to whom these bribes were offered and what they were. If it was a hundred
              dollars that was offered for a vote; if it was this two hundred dollars that was
              spoken of by the witness Lewis, they could have said that much at least in their
              specifications. They could not only have said that John W. Burson had offered two
              hundred dollars to one Captain Lewis, but they should have been able and willing in
              addition to that to have come before the Senate and said we hereby subscribe our names
              and swear to the truth of these charges. But no! These charges, grave as they are, are
              general charges; and not only so, but during the four weeks that the Committee sat
              upon the memorial they were fishing around in order to find some of these "divers
              citizens of the counties of Delaware and Madison." Is took that Committee, with the
              power of the Senate that had authorized it to send for persons and papers, four long
              weeks to find one of these "divers citizens" to whom these offers had been made, and
              by turning to the record you will find the name of this redoubtable Captain Lewis
              standing there as the forty-first witness brought forward to sustain the charge, and
              the first one that knew anything at all about all this "bribery and corruption." Do
              you believe Captain Lewis knew all this during all that time; that these petitioners
              knew it; that this Committee knew it? If they did, those petitioners and that
              Committee were trifling with the trust committed to them, trifling with the dignity of
              the Senate and trifling with the rights of the people of the State of Indiana. They
              had no right to sit there four long weeks seeking for testimony that might serve to
              convict Mr. Burson, knowing where it was all the time, and yet not bringing it in till
              after they had examined forty other witnesses who knew nothing at all about the case.
              Do you believe that, gentlemen? If you do, I do not.
            I said on a former occasion that I, for one, was seeking for light on this subject,
              and that I was hoping to find it in the evidence offered here. I have been favored
              this morning,for the first time, with this volume, which purports to contain the
              evidence in the case. I am asked to pass upon the contents of this volume here this
              morning; I am asked to pass judgment upon what has been sworn to--upon what has been
              proved and what has not. Here are some three hundred  and more pages of testimony, furnished to the Senate for
              the first time this morning in a tangible shape, in which we can lay hold of it, and
              yet I find, from what has transpired a few moments ago, that Senators are unwilling to
              give me one short half hour for the purpose of an examination of what this book
              contains. O, what a hurry these gentlemen are in! After this committee that has been
              out for two-thirds of the session nearly all the time, come before the Senate and make
              their report, and a Senator asks for time to look at the testimony now for the first
              time laid laid before the Senate in a tangible form, they can not afford to give him
              even one short half hour for that purpose. I would like to find a Senator who can look
              over this volume of testimony in a day, or can understand what is in it in a week. And
              yet, this evening, before the going down of that sun, by this very testimony, under
              our sworn obligations as Senators, we are to determine whether John W. Burson, is
              guilty or innocent!
            I desire now to invite the attention of the Senate to some portions of the testimony
              taken before the committee. And first, I wish to make this general remark, that it
              would seem, both from the examinations and from the arguments before the committee,
              that the witnesses brought forward to sustain the charge were being cross examined for
              the purpose of making out a case against Mr. Burson. Both the examinations and the
              arguments seem to show to the Senate that they doubted the word of their own
              witnesses, and that they wished the Senate to believe that there was more in the
              testimony than really appeared--that the witnesses must have meant more than they
              stated.
            My friend, the Senator from Jackson, referred to the testimony of Henry Vineyard; I
              now desire to invite the Senate to a part of that testimony.
            Question. State the conversation that occurred after you asked Mr. Burson to lend you
              the money?
            Answer. I asked him for it. At that time Mr. McCullough was out in the country. Mr.
              Burson said he did not have the money really to spare. I said to him I wanted to
              borrow ten or fifteen dollars, and he said he did not hardly have the money to spare
              at that time. I told him it would be quite an accommodation if he would let me have it
              till I could see McCullough.
            If that is true it is an answer to all that has been said against Mr. Burson,
              predicated upon the testimony of Henry Vineyard. He says Burson loaned it to him. Is
              that true? The argument they want to make here is, that this man Vineyard is not
              worthy of credit, and that he is not telling the truth. Who is Henry Vineyard? A
              witness of their own. If he is a man that is unworthy of belief will you take his
              testimony to condemn John W. Burson? Will you say that his testimony is good enough
              for that purpose, but is not such as should be believed before a jury of the country?
              I will read again:
            "Question.--Did Mr. Burson say anything to you in that conversation as to how you
              should vote for Senator ?
            "Answer.--No, sir; he spoke nothing in regard to it."
            Is that the truth? If it is, then tell me why and how it is that upon the testimony
              of Henry Vineyard, you can find John W. Burson guilty of bribery? How can you construe
              his obtaining that money into an act of bribery, when the witness himself says that
              Mr. Burson did not say one word about elections, nor whom he should vote for.
            Q. Did he give you any directions as to how you should spend that money?
            A. No, sir; he did not know what I wanted with it, I suppose. I did not tell him
              anything about it.
            Is that true? If so, in the name of fairness and common sense, how does the testimony
              of this witness injure John W. Burson?
          
          
            QUESTIONS BY JONATHAN W. GORDON.
            Q. For whom did you vote?
            A. That is my business.
            Q. Answer the question: For whom did you vote for Senator?
            A. Indeed, sir, I can not tell you positively which one I did vote for. They are both
              Republicans. Mr. Kline gave me the money to work for him, and go out and get votes for
              him. He is the one that did all this.
            Q. A man could not hire you to vote for him?
            A. No, sir; he gave me the money to pass out, but no man can hire me to vote for
              him.
            This is not the witness they want at all. "For whom did you vote at the election for
              Senator?" "Indeed sir, I cannot tell you positively which one I did vote for." And yet
              you would have the Senate believe he had been bribed to vote for Burson! Vineyard was
              your witness; he was of your party; he was working for your party; you bring him here
              to testify against Mr. Burson, and yet you would have the Senate believe he is lying
              every word he utters!
            Now, this same Mr. Kline, that Vineyard swears had given him the money to go out and
              work or him, is the man who heads the list of names signed to this very memorial that
              is now before the Senate. The man who could hire his neighbor to go out and pay out
              his money for him is the very man who heads this list and is asking you to turn John
              W. Burson out of the Senate because he was guilty of bribery and corruption. I see Mr.
              Kline here; allow me to say injustice to that gentleman, that I do not believe he did
              any such thing; but this man Vineyard-- the Lord knows who has planted him. If he is not willing, after they have brought him here,
              to condemn Mr. Burson, but goes back upon them, I ask gentlemen how they can
              consistently undertake to build an argument upon that poor God-forsaken creature--a
              man who is in the market to be bought and sold like sheep in the shambles. This Senate
              ought not to believe on oath any man who will ac-  knowledge, as this man has done, that he has been bought. I know that there are
              some such men, and I know that sometimes they get into the Senate, that are so
              contemptibly low and mean that they can be bought; there is no doubt of that.
            I now turn to another witness, Mr. Everett. Let me give you a few extracts from his
              testimony.
          
          
            QUESTIONS BY SENATOR BROWN.
            Q. When you alluded to getting anything indirectly, you alluded to this policy of
              insurance?
            A. What I got indirectly was that policy.
            Q. What makes you think you got that indirectly, for voting for Mr. Burson?
            A. The way I understand it is that indirectly I got it in this way--I can hardly
              explain it.
            Q. Why is it you think you got that policy indirectly for supporting Mr. Burson or
              voting for him ?
            A. I do not think he did give it to me to vote for him.
            Who has a right to know more about it than he? But the honorable Senator who speaks
              here to-day against Mr. Burson says he did not tell the truth about it. He argues that
              the witness has committed perjury in swearing to what he has sworn to. "I do not think
              he did give it to me to vote for him." Is not that enough to satisfy any man? If
              Everett is to be believed at all, how can you on his testimony condemn Mr. Burson? You
              must reverse his language; and when he says he did not do the thing, say that he meant
              that he did not do it.
            Here we have a rigid cross-examination of their own witness.
          
          
            QUESTIONS BY SENATOR BROWN.
            Q. Then what did you mean when you said you probably got something "indirectly" to
              vote for him?
            A. I did not understand it.
            If he does not understand it, who does understand it? Ah, but you are going to presume that there is something wrong in this thing that the witness
              does not understand; you are going to understand it for him. He says he does not
              understand it, and yet you are going to convict John W. Burson upon his testimony!
            Q. Did your voting for Mr. Burson have anything to do with this policy?
            A. I must have misunderstood him.
            What is it the Senate is asked to do? Why, we are asked to say that we understand
              him, and that John W. Burson has been guilty of bribery--that we understand it that
              way--we are determined to understand it that way.
            The learned and able gentleman from Jackson is still pursuing this
              cross-examination.
            Q. Did you ever get anything indirectly for voting for Mr. Burson?
            A. Nothing but the policy.
            First the witness says he did not get the policy for voting for Burson, and then,
              when pressed further, he says, nothing but the policy, What does he mean by that? He
              has already denied that Burson gave him the policy to vote for him, and now he says he
              got nothing indirectly for voting for him, unless the learned gentleman is determined
              to construe the presentation of the policy into something of the kind. "Nothing but
              the policy."
            Here the gentleman attasks his own witness and undertakes to make him contradict
              himself; and I ask him in all candor not to ask the Senate to infer from the testimony
              of a witness whom he does not himself believe, that John W. Burson is guilty of
              bribery. But hear further what the witness says:
            "Q. Did your getting the policy hate anything to do with getting you to vote for
              Burson?
            A. No sir."
            How much broader would you have that testimony? Did he lie? Did he lie all the time?
              The Senate must brand him as a lying, perjured scoundrel, or declare that John W.
              Burson is innocent of this charge. We must say that although the witness says the
              getting of the policy had nothing to do with his vote, we, sitting here as a court,
              know that it did have something to do with it--that Burson is guilty of bribing the
              witness, and that the witness is guilty of perjury it denying it.
            Q. He merely gave it to you as a present?
            A. Yes.
            Q. As a present for what:
            A. He did not say.
            Q. When was this?
            A. In the latter part of August.
            Shame! shame! To what extremities are you driven when you can ask that a Senator
              shall be driven from his seat upon this floor upon such flimsy proof as is offered
              here?
            Q. Was there anything, in any part of that conversation, said by Mr Burson to you
              about that being in consideration of your vote or influence at that election?
            A. Not a word.
            I wonder that my learned friend, Mr. Gordon, did not go further and ask the witness
              if Mr. Burson did not wink at him, to let him know that that was for voting for him at
              the election.
            Q. Was there any allusion made to your working for him at the election.
            A. There was not a word.
            What does he mean by that? Is that good testimony against John W. Burson? Yet the
              honorable Senator from Jackson says he "plants" himself upon this testimony and that
              it is alone sufficient to convict!
            Q. Was there anything said by you to Mr. Burson about it.
            A. No sir. He never asked me how I was going to vote, and I never told him.
            Q. Would you have voted for him if he had not given you the policy?
            A. I would. I came out for that purpose at the time he came out, when the policy was
              not thought of.
            They say that is a lie; that this witness of their's is not worthy of credit, and
              that he was hired to vote for Burson, though he swears he was not.
            Q. Was not Mr. Burson at that time a  policy
              holder and Director of that Company ?
            A. I believe he was.
            Q. Was he not collecting all the premiums due to the Company at that place, or at
              least a large portion of them?
            A. I do not know whether he was or not; I know he was for Blount's and mine. He had
              collected ours for the first year.
            Now, gentlemen, take that testimony, from beginning to end of it, and tell me, as
              honest men, whether lawyers or not, if there is anything in it to make against John W.
              Burson or anybody else but the parties who produced this witness and the witness
              himself?
            We now turn to the testimony of Edward P Howe.
            Q. Do you know whether James V. Blount and Walter Everett, of Muncie, insure in your
              Company ?
            A. Yes, I recollect their names.
            Q. What connection had Mr. Burson with that Company in 1870 ?
            A. He was one of the Board of Directors.
            Q. State whether he was employed to collect the premium on policies issued to persons
              living in Muncie?
            A. Yes; I believe the collections were all sent to him both in his capacity as a
              Director of the Company and to his bank. He has been a very active Director, and took
              an interest in seeing that the business of the Company was kept in good shape, and
              would exert himself to have new policies issued as well as old ones renewed. * * Mr.
              Burson has done the business of collecting there, almost entirely for over three years
              now.
            Now, gentlemen, you see Mr. Burson's true relation to that transaction. They tell you
              inasmuch as he favored Everett in this matter you must therefore find him guilty of
              bribery. The witness comes and tells you that it had nothing to do with his voting for
              Burson, and that he would have voted for him if he had never given him the policy. Is
              that true or is it false? O, would to God that we could strip ourselves to-day of
              every thing like party spirit, that we could break every party shackle and say, upon
              the right and on the left, upon one side of this Chamber as well as upon the other
              that the mists raised by party interests should no more obscure our vision, but that
              we would stand up here and vote like men. Whatever may be the influence of party at
              other times, when it comes to acting under the obligation of an oath let us discard
              party, let us throw aside every weight that besets us, and in the name of all that is
              good let us do right--let us practice upon the principle of equal justice to all men,
              though the heavens fall.
            I now proceed to examine the testimony of another witness, James V. Blount, the
              partner of Mr. Everett, whose testimony I have just been reviewing.
            Q. After the payment of that note what do you know of Mr. Burson's continuing the
              policies and paying that note?
            A. I had been sick nearly all summer, and was going to let the policy go, and Mr.
              Burson took it on himself and paid it and fetched it to the shop and left it. I
              believe he told my partner he would make us a present of that because I was sick.
            Now, how much is proven by Mr. Blount's testimony against Mr. Burson? Let me ask
              these lawyers, would what his partner said to him be competent evidence? He says, "so
              far as I am concerned, I never spoke to him during the time he was running." Does that
              look as though Mr. Burson had given him a bribe to obtain his influence, his vote, his
              work, or any thing else? Hear him again:
            Q. Who were you for for Senator before the presentation of the renewal receipt?
            A. For Mr. Burson.
            Q. How long before that had you been for him?
            A. I was for him at the nomination in the spring and stuck to him clear through, and
              am still going to stick.
            Q State whether that gift to you had any influence on your vote for Senator at that
              election.
            [To this question the prosecution objected and the objection was sustained by the
              Committee]
            Q. Did not Mr. Burson know before that present was made to you, that you were
              actively his friend, and operating in his favor?
            A. I think he would; I think he did.
            Now, if there was a bribe given or offered to Mr. Blount, what was it for? It could
              not have been for the purpose of procuring his vote or influence for Mr. Burson, for
              he says he was a Burson man from the beginning to the end, and that he is for him yet,
              and intends to stick to him. Here is bribery with a vengeance! But I do not know that
              it would do any good if we should show that every witness stood from the very start in
              the same relation to Mr. Burson that this man did. I do not know but our eyes are
              blinded so that we can not see, and our consciences so seared that evidence and reason
              can have no effect upon them. There are none so blind as those who will not see. I may
              say here that it appeared to me at the outset, in constituting the Committee appointed
              by the majority of this Senate, a determination was shown to so fix this matter that
              it would be almost impossible to find that John W. Burson had done anything else than
              offer bribes during the whole time that he was running for the Senate. The very
              gentleman who was made Chairman had voted previous to his appointment ; it was upon
              his motion that the Senator now upon trial had been silenced on this floor. It was not
              allowed, in accordance with the ordinary usage that the President of the Senate should
              appoint that Committee; the majority of two must do it. And when that majority
              appointed the Committee, of course without ever thinking of it (for I would not be
              willing to intimate the possibility of their having a design in the matter) they happened to appoint four men of the Democratic stamp--true and
              reliable men--and one Republican, for the purpose of meting; out entire justice to Mr.
              Burson. Because  they did not think Republicans
              can do men justice, therefore they appointed four men, Democrats, upon whom they could
              rely. I say, four Democrats; am I mistaken in that? A gentleman here says, three Democrats and two Republicans; I would like to
              know who the second Republican is that was on that committee. Was it my venerable
              friend, the Senator from Fayette and Union? God help us if he is a Republican! I would
              rather trust to the Senator from Vanderburg to act independently of the Democratic
              party than to him, because with the Senator from Fayette the honeymoon is not yet past
              with the party, and he is under the necessity of doing something to bring himself into
              notice, while in the case of the Senator from Vanderburg the alliance is two years
              old. I would much rather, therefore, that they had appointed one of these old
              Democrats upon that committee. If they had appointed the gentleman from Laporte I
              would have expected nothing but a square fight from him; but when I saw them appoint
              the gentleman from Fayette I thought to myself that it was a bad committee for us. The
              men who were appointed were well known in the Senate to have already pronounced upon
              Mr. Burson, and to have determined in their own hearts that he was not a Senator, and
              should not be.
            I now turn to the testimony of Charles W. Riggs.
            Q. State whether or not you ever received any money from any person to be used in or
              about the election of Mr. Burson.
             A. Just on the eve of the election I went to Mr. Marsh and told him I knew some men
              I could get to work. I never had any conversation with Mr. Burson about it. It was Mr.
              John Marsh.
            Q Did you get any money from John Marsh?
            A. Yes; I told him, "There are some men out there that we can get to work for us,"and
              he gave me some money; but there was none of it that was used to buy votes.
            I have yet to learn that because a candidate may have hired men to canvass for him
              and carry tickets he is to be turned out of the Senate for bribery and corruption. I
              do not, of course, believe that my old friend, the Senator from Vanderburg, got
              anybody to work for him; but I do not believe there are four men besides him, on this
              floor, of whom the same thing can be said. Every sensible man, whether he is a Senator
              or not, or whether he is a lawyer or not, knows there is nothing like bribery in that.
              Says the witness, "I got the money, not from Mr. Burson, but from Mr. Marsh, and there
              was none of it used to buy votes."
            Who is this that thus speaks ? It is a witness for the prosecution again; he is not
              our witness; he is brought here to make good this charge against my friend Burson,
              upon which they are seeking to turn him out of the Senate. Who is it that he is
              talking about? Is it John W. Burson? Not at all. They are trying to convict Burson
              upon the strength of what some other man said, and without connecting him with that
              conversation in any way whatever.
            I now wish to notice for a moment this famous witness, Henry Cline--this cheap
              man--this dollar-and-a-half man--this Godforsaken creature that cannot find a man in
              all that county who will vouch for him. He is a man that has been guilty of forgery,
              if you will believe the testimony, and a man whose own brother-in law comes before the
              Committee and says he is a man unworthy of credit before this Senate.
            But let us hear what he says:
            "He handed out a five dollar bill, and I was to get it changed and take a dollar and
              a half out to pay for the paper." (The Delaware County Times)
            His subscription had run out and he told Mr. Burson that he did not feel able to take
              the paper another year.
            Q. Did he not tell you if you did not feel able to pay for the paper he would loan
              you the money, and did you not promise to pay it back?
            A. I do not think he did; I might have said that if ever I got able I would pay him
              back."
            And this the gentlemen would torture into the purchase of a vote! "I might have said
              that if ever I got able I would pay him back." But he never has got able, I suppose,
              and never will as long as he lives. I know him myself--know him well. I knew his
              father before him--a very clever old man, but this Henry, I must say, is one of the
              most worthless, God-forsaken creatures that lives on the face of the earth at the
              present time.
            Now, gentlemen, if he did get this dollar and a half, and if it is his impression
              that at the time he promised to pay it back, are you going to believe that this was an
              effort on the part of Mr. Burson to bribe this poor creature to vote for him?
            Q. Was the conversation loud enough to be heard?
            A. There was no conversation, except as I went out he said he wanted me to work for
              him, I believe--I can not say just how he said it--and he also gave me a paper in
              which he had a piece that he had written, that came out in reply to Orr, in regard to
              coming out on the platform, or something; I do not remember just what it was.
            Is this a case of bribery ? He has told you it was the best of his recollection that
              he was to pay the money back. Now, I know enough of John W. Burson to say
              unhesitatingly that there is no poor man that would go to him at any time and ask his
              for a dollar and a half but what he would hand it to him if he expected never to see
              it again in the world. He is just that kind of a man. I wonder that Senators did not
              strike one other lead and make the discovery that John W. Burson's wife had been
              bribing men to vote for him. If they had gone into the matter they would have found
              that she has paid out five hundred times as much money as her husband ever did to men
              of this description. She keeps a fund on  hand,
              not only when he is a candidate for the Senate, but at all times for the relief of the
              widow, the orphan and the poor. I am really astonished that these gentlemen have not
              charged that John W. Burson's wife had been bribing somebody in order to secure his
              election.
            Here is a scrap of the testimony of Samuel A. Wilson, a man who was in the bank at
              the time Cline came in, and who saw Mr Burson hand him the money. He says that Mr.
              Burson remarked at the time he gave Cline the money that the man was subscribing for
              the Times, and that he was lending him the money to do so. He says
              further: "He(meaning Burson) told him that whenever he got ready to pay it back, if he
              was not in at the time to hand it to 'the younggentleman there,' meaning me." And yet
              this poor creature is brought here to show that Mr. Burson gave him that money as
              abribe for the purpose of securing his election.
            Now to attack the character of such a man as Henry Cline is very much like kicking a
              dead dog; but I will let one of his neighbors tell you, for all the rest of them, what
              kind of a man he is. I turn to the testimony of William Cook.
            Q. Where do you reside?
            A. Union township, Delaware county.
            Q. Are you acquained with Henry Cline, of that township?
            A. Yes.
            Q. Are you acquainted with his general character in that neighborhood for truth and
              morality ?
             A. Yes.
            Q. Is it good or bad?
            A. I pronounce it bad.
            Cross examined Do you say his general reputation in that neighborhood is that he
              violates the laws of his country?
            A. Yes.
            Q. In what respect?
            A. That in selling a load of wheat after getting the certificate of the amount of
              bushels, he returned it to the man he had sold it to, changing it and making it
              larger. * * Another thing, I believe, was forging a note and selling that.
            Q. On whom was the note drawn?
            A. If I mistake not, the note was drawn on his father and his father-in-law.
            Think of bringing in a witness to condemn John W. Burson, that would forge a note on
              his own father, an old, grey-haired, decrepit man, and his father-in law, and
              insisting that the Senate should believe him! There were six or seven other good men
              of that neighborhood before the committee who all swore to about the same thing with
              regard to this Henry Cline; how, then, can the Senator from Jackson claim to have made
              anything out of that man's testimony? He stands here impeached all over; a man accused
              of forgery, and not only so, but who has forged a note upon his own father; a man whom
              none of his neighbors will believe. How can it be that this Senate will listen for one
              moment to his testimony?
            Here is the testimony of this man Sanders, whom they talk about in connection with a
              subscription of land to a turnpike road. It will only be necessary for me to read a
              single extract to show you how utterly groundless this charge is, so far as it rests
              upon his testimony. He is speaking of the conversation between him and Mr. Burson in
              which they allege that he was bought.
            Q. What is the substance of what was said in that conversation?
            A. I cannot tell for the life of me. I believe I cannot come anywhere near giving the
              words; my memory is very poor. I had a spell of the black eresypelas that destroyed my
              memory to a great extent. We had a conversation in regard to that subscription of the
              land and a conversation in regard to the primary election. He and I talked the matter
              over; what the substance of it was I cannot say.
            Q. What arrangement, if any, was made that after that you should support him?
            A. He spoke, about as near as I can recollect, that it was pretty hard for me to pay
              that subscription, but that it did not amount to anything. I believe that is about the
              language he gave, and that he did not think it could ever be collected off me. I think
              he claimed that he felt pretty well satisfied that it would not. I will not be
              positive to state that; but it was something near that effect; something near that
              substance.
            What is the amount of that? Simply that Burson had given him to understand that he
              did not believe it could be collected off him. Is that an attempt to bribe anybody ?
              No; it can not be construed into any such thing.
            I now propose turning to the testimony of this valorous Captain Lewis; and I want the
              earnest attention of the Senate while I deal candidly and fairly with that testimony.
              They say he is a very high-minded and honorable gentleman. This is the forty-first
              witness brought forward to sustain these charges. They have compassed heaven and earth
              to find one proselyte, and I am going to show you that when they got him they have
              made him, if possible, ten-fold more the child of Satan than--he was before.
            Q. Where do you reside?
            A. Wheeling, Washington township, Delaware county, Indiana.
            Q. How long have you resided there?
            A. For the last two years. I was born in Washington township, and resided there all
              my life.
            Q. What is your business ?
            A. I am a partner of the firm of Stephenson & Lewis, in a general store.
            Q. State whether you were a member of the Republican Central Committee of Delaware
              county during the late canvass?
            A. I was up to six or eight weeks before the close of the canvass, when I withdrew
              from the Committee at the time six or eight others did. I was appointed in the spring
              a member of the Committee, and resigned during the campaign.
            Q. For whom did you vote for Senator at the late election?

            

            A. William B. Kline.
            Q. Are you acquainted with John W. Burson?
            A. Yes; I know him when I see him.
            Q. Is that the man, now in this room?
            A. Yes; that is the gentleman.
            Q How long have you been acquainted with him?
            A. Something near four years. I remember of seeing the man and knowing him when I saw
              him, ever since I came home from the army. I was mustered out of the army the 13th of
              October, 1865.
            Q What do you know of John W. Burson, or any person on his behalf--any agent, friend,
              or partisan of his--having given to any person or persons anything of value whatever,
              in order to influence any vote or votes for him at the last election?
            A. I do not know anything of his giving or having given any. It is simply hearsay, so
              far as that is concerned.
            Q. What do you know, if anything, of John W. Burson's having offered any person or
              persons any money or any other thing of value in order to influence the vote of any
              such person or control his or their action in or about his election last October?
            A. John W. Burson offered me two hundred dollars for my vote and influence in
              Washington township. That was from two to four weeks previous to the final
              election.
             Q. Where was that offered you?
            A. Standing on the Elliott corner in the city of Muncie. I do not know the names of
              the streets. There are three corners there; one known as the Nealy corner, one as the
              Joe Davis corner, and the other as the Elliott corner.
            A. Did you accept his offer?
            A. I did not.
            We asked this man when he first became opposed to Mr. Burson, and he placed it as far
              back as in the month of August. We shall show bv several witnesses that he was not
              only opposed to Mr. Burson throughout the campaign, but that he was opposed to him
              even before the primary election, which was held on the 4th of June. His neighbors
              will come before you and say that he was an outspoken and violent opponent of Mr.
              Burson long before the time at which he says this bribe was offered, and that it must
              necessarily have been known to Burson--that it was generally and notoriously known all
              over the country that this famous Captain Lewis was opposing his election and than of
              some other candidates for office there.
            I want now to show you a card that was published long before that time in the
              Delaware County Times. [Here the gentleman read the card signed by
              William Lewis and others, withdrawing from the Republican Central Committee of
              Delaware county during the campaign.]
            He was asked upon cross-examination:
            Q. This card says: "We can not consistently work with a ring who are attempting to
              carry their point by bribery and corrutpion; were
              the words 'bribery'and 'corruption' italicized in the original?
            A. I can not say.
            Q. About what time was it published.
            A. Along in the latter part of August, I think.
            Long before he says this offer of bribery was made, he is found publishing a card
              right there in the town of Muncie, where Mr. Burson lived, withdrawing from the
              Central Committee on the ground that certain men had secured their nominations by
              bribery and corruption.
            Q Whose nomination was it that you had in your minds as having been procured by
              bribery and corruption?
            A. It was the nomination of the Commissioners, and Mr. Burson's nomination.
            Now, look for one moment at, the proposition which gentlemen ask the Senate to
              believe. What is it? It is first that sometime during the canvass, Lewis published a
              card in Muncie, where Mr. Burson lived,charging him with obtaining his nomination by
              bribery and corruption, and withdrawing from the central committee on that account;
              and second, that some time after that, from two to four weeks before the final
              election, John W. Burson, with a full knowledge of the facts, walked up to him and
              said: "I will give you two hundred dollars for your vote and influence in that
              township!" First, he says, he offered him two hundred dollars for his vote, and
              afterward for his vote and influence. Is that the way sensible men do? I ask the
              Senator from Jackson to tell me if Burson was acting a sensible part in going to the
              very man who had been accusing him of fraud, bribery and corruption, and before half a
              dozen words had been spoken between them, offering him two hundred dollars for his
              vote and influence in the coming election? Is that the way men do? Is that story a
              probable one? Is it not one of the most improbable that could possibly have been
              invented? Gentlemen, there ia some grand mistake here.
            But we are not done with this Captain Lewis; I am going to show you that he proved
              himself to be a liar within twenty minutes from the time when he says this offer was
              made. He is speaking of the same conversation between him and Mr. Burson.
            "He then wanted to know what Liberty Ginn and Jesse Nixon were doing and what their
              influence would amount to. I told him, as near as I can recollect, that their
              influence and work in our township would not amount to anything. * * * * Mr. Burson
              wanted to know of me what sides I were taking and I told him I was not taking any
              particular stand; I was not opposing him particularly at that time, or had not taken
              any stand previous to that against him: still that I did not feel disposed to work for
              him. Then he made this offer, as I stated before."
            Do you believe he told the truth when he said he "was not taking any particular
              stand?" I am going to show you by the tes- 
              timony of from five to seven of his neighbors that he falsified when he said it that
              he was actively opposing Burson at that time, and had been doing his utmost against
              him for a long time before.
            Captain Lewis was asked on cross-examination :
            Q. State whether two or three days after the primary election in your store, in
              Wheeling, you did not say to Jesse Faulkner, "I will vote for any gd dd man before I
              will vote for him," (meaning Burson?)
            A. I never made that assertion; not at that time.
            Q. Did not Mr. Faulkner then ask you if you would vote for a rebel? and did you not
              reply, "Yes, the damnedest rebel that lives in preference to Burson?"
            A. No, sir; I never used that language.
            [The speaker here read largely from the testimony of William Lewis, where questions
              were asked laying the foundation for impeachment by proof of contradictory statements
              ]
            I now propose to take the statements of some of his neighbors upon this point. And
              first I turn to that of Jesse Faulkner.
            Q. Do you recollect of hearing a conversation with Captain Lewis, or being present in
              his store in Wheeling, some two or three days after the primary election last spring,
              when the election was talked of?
            A. Yes sir.
            Q. State if in that conversation Captain Lewis used these words or similar words "I
              would vote for any God damned man before I would for him," meaning Mr. Burson?
            A. Yes; I think those are about the words uttered to me at the time, as near as I can
              remember.
            Q. Did you then ask him if he would vote for a rebel, and did he reply in these
              words: "Yes, the damnedest rebel that lives?"
            A. I believe those were about the words.
            Q. Do you recollect of having a conversation with him the second day after the
              October election in his store?
            A. About that time; I reckon it was the second day, in the morning.
            Q. State if in that conversation you put this question to him: "You have been blowing
              and lying about Burson having bonds and buying notes and all that sort of staff; now
              do you believe on the honor of a man that Burson ever bought any votes?"
            A. Yes.
            Q. Did Lewis make this answer then "No, I do not?"
            A. I believe that was the answer,directly.
            Q. Did you then ask him, "Bill, did Burson ever offer you a bribe?
            A. I did sir.
            Q. Did he answer to that, "No, he did not?"
            A. That is what he said beyond a doubt.
            Q. Did you say, "Do you know of his buying any votes?"
            A. Yes.
            Q. Did he answer, "No, I do not?"
            A. Yes.
            Q. Did he make this further remark, "That is all foolishness; we just threw that out
              to gull the people; I do not believe he ever tried to bribe any body?"
            A. Yes.
            Q. Did he say, "If there is any lying, dirty, underhanded tricks that are too bad for
              any body else to do, lay it on me, for by God I would do anything under the heavens to
              beat him," meaning Mr. Burson?
            A. That is about the conversation.
            Q. Did he say, "I lied and did every other mean thing to defeat him, and by God, we
              will defeat him?"
            A. That is about the answer he gave.
            We next take the testimony of Frank Gregory:
            Q. State whether about ten days after the primary election in or in front of Lewis'
              store you had a conversation with him about the Senatorial candidates--about Mr.
              Burson?
            A. Yes; within ten days, or something near that.
            Q. State whether you said to him,. "Bill, the election is over, Orr is defeated, will
              you support the nominee?"
            A. Yes.
            Q. Did he give you this answer? "No; I would vote for Dr. Glenn, or the dirtiest
              rebel that ever trod the South, before I would vote for him?"
            A. Yes, he did.
            Q. Did he make this further remark: "I would lie, cheat, steal, or do anything that
              is mean, to defeat him?"
            A. Yes.
            Q. And "if there is any thing mean done lay it on me, for I am broad-shouldered and
              can stand it?"
            A. Yes.
            Q. State whether you had a conversation with Mr. Lewis in his store since this
              investigation commenced, about the matter of this investigation?
            A. Yes, a few days age.
            Q. Did you in that conversation remark to him, "Well, I guess they will beat Burson
              after all?"
            A. Yes.
            Q. Did Mr. Lewis reply, "If they do, I will buy a quart of whisky and go down to the
              sand bank and get dead-drunk?"
            A. He did.I now turn to the testimony of Liberty Ginn.
            Q. State whether near the brick-kiln at Wheeling, between the last ot August and the
              middle of September you had a conversation with Captain Lewis in regard to the
              Senatorial election?"
            A. Yes.
             Q. Did you ask Mr. Lewis in that conversation if he believed Mr. Burson had bought
              any men, and did he answer, "I do not believe he has; he never gave me any money;
              Burson is too sharp for that?"
            A. Yes; he made use of just that language during the conversation.
            Q. Did you have a conversation in Mr. Lewis' store with him on Monday, Tuesday  or Wednesday of week before last about what he
              knew in regard to this case ?
            A. I cannot say that I had the conversation with him myself particularly.
            Q. State if in that conversation he said, "I do not know what the devil they have
              subpoanaed me for, I do not know anything against either of them, and do not know
              anything that can do either of them any good?"
            A. I was present and heard him make use of that language.
            Q. How soon after the primary election did you hear him electioneering parties
              directly and squarely against Mr. Burson ?
            A. It was not to exceed fifteen days afterwards that he was boldly and squarely
              against him, and probably a shorter time.
            Here is the testimony of Jesse Nixon:
            Q. Did you have a conversation with Captain Lewis in his store at Wheeling a few days
              after the October election in regard to the election for Senator in that District?
            A. We had a conversation; it was after night in his store.
            Q. Was Liberty Ginn present at that time?
            A. Yes.
            Q. State if in that conversation Mr. Lewis used this language: that he had been
              riding day and night, and that he had left nothing undone, right or wrong, to beat
              Burson, and that what was left undone he had not sense to carry out?"
            A. That is about the language.
            Q. Did Mr. Lewis, in relation to that story of Harper, use the expression, "By God,
              anything to beat."
            A. "By God, when a man starts out, any thing to beat," was as near as I can recollect
              the language.
            Q. Did he say that it took a quart of whiskey a day for the last two or three weeks
              to keep him up under the pressure?
            A. He went right on in connection with the first statement, and spoke of riding day
              and night for the last two or three weeks. 'Squire Ginn said, "I think you have had a
              pretty heavy time of it," and Lewis replied, "It has taken about a quart of whisky a
              day to keep me up under the pressure."
             Q. Some three or four weeks before the October election in Wheeling, did Captain
              Lewis, in your presence, use this language, that charges of bribery and fraud were
              good electioneering hobbies, but there was not so much of it done as people supposed,
              but "anything for effect?"
            A. If I am to answer that question yes or no, I say yes.
            Now, gentlemen, we see some little of what this renowned Captain Lewis has been
              doing. He swears that up to within from two to four weeks of the final election when
              he says this bribe was offered, he had taken no decided stand against John W. Burson;
              while it is proven by some of the most reliable citizens of Delaware county that
              within ten days after the primary election he was declaring publicly that he would
              lie, cheat, steal, or do any other mean thing to defeat him. This is the man that is
              brought in at the eleventh hour, after forty witnesses have been called in and
              examined on suspicion, without knowing anything about the case, to prove John W.
              Burson guilty of bribery. Do you believe him? Can you believe him?
            My time is out. I have gone hastily over this great mass of testimony, and have not
              been able to present it as I could have desired, but I have shown you, as I believe,
              the true character of the testimony upon which this prosecution rests, and there I
              leave the question.
          
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISTATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          IN SENATE.
          
            MONDAY, February 27, 1871.
          
          The Senate met at 2 o'clock P. M., pursuantto adjournment last Friday, the Lieutenant
            Governor in the chair.
          As soon as the gavel was sounded commanding order--
          Mr. SCOTT said: Mr. President I move that when the Senate adjourns, it adjourn to meet
            Thursday at 2 o'clock.
          Mr. WOOD. Mr. President, before that motion is put, I desire to ask leave of absence
            for myself and the Senator from Warrick. (Mr. Fuller)
          Mr. FULLER Mr. President, I ask leaveof absence during the remainder of the session, as
            I have received information from my sister that my brother-in-law is dangerously
            sick.
          The LIEUT GOVERNOR. Is there any objection to granting leave of absence to the Senator
            from Fountain and the Senator from Warrick? The Chair hears none. They have leave of
            absence.
          Mr. HENDERSON. Mr. President, I rise to a point of order. The resolution of the Senator
            from Vigo (Mr. Scott) is out of order, as I understood the Chair to rule that no
            resolution can be entertained. If a resolution to adjourn is in order, the pending
            resolution is in order. I understand the President has decided that no resolution is in
            order.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. No, I have not decided that.
          Mr. HENDERSON. Then I demand that the resolution be sent up in writing.
          Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President, I rise to a question of order. I took an appeal from the
            decision of the Chair at our last sitting, just before the adjournment, and I desire
            that it be read. The Secretary has it.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR read the appeal.
          Mr. GREEN. Mr. President, that is an appeal taken before the adjournment on Friday
            afternoon, and is lost now. Pending a motion to adjourn, the Chair made some decision,
            and the appeal was taken, and the motion to adjourn prevailed.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I ruled out of order the resolution offered the day previous
            by the Senator from Morgan (Mr. Henderson), and the Senator from Laporte(Mr. Bradley)
            took an appeal from my decision. The appeal was not perfected at the time, but he had
            the appeal entered, and I think it is in order now.
          Mr. GREEN (in his seat.) Not now, because an adjournment took place immediately.
          Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President, I believe I have the floor.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Senator from Vigo (Mr. Scott) offers the following
            resolution; (to the Secretary, read it.)
          The Secretary read as follows:
          
            
              
                Resolved, That when the Senate adjourns it adjourns to meet on
                  Thursday at 2 o'clock P. M.
              
            
          
          Mr. GLESSNER. Mr. President, I rise to a privilege question. I desire and ask leave of
            absence for the Senator from Switzerland and Ripley (Mr. Rosebrough.) His court is in
            session and he desires to go home.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Is there any objection? The chair hears none. The Senator from
            Switzerland has leave of absence indefinitely.
          Mr. HENDERSON. Mr. President, my point of order was that the resolution of the Senator
            from Vigo (Mr. Scott) under the ruling of the chair the other day can not be
            entertained. I introduced a resolution and the chair ruled it out of order, and the only
            proposition that can be made now, as I understand it, under the ruling of the chair, is
            to adjourn from day to day.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Senator misapprehends the ruling of the chair. I think the
            reporter got it down correctly at the time. If I had it here I would read it. I ruled
            that the General Assembly consists of a Senate and House of Representatives, and that if
            one branch of the General Assembly was destroyed by the resignation of a sufficient
            number to reduce the number of its members to less than a quorum, it paralyzes the the
            power of the other house for all legislative purposes. That was the decision of the
            chair, and that this resolution offered by the Senator from Morgan (Mr. Henderson,) was
            a resolution to pay the expenses of, not the Senate, but the General Assembly, and
            therefore I ruled it out of order.
          Mr. BRADLEY. The only decision I appealed from was the decision of the President  that the resolution was out of order. That is all
            the decision I appeal from. This is not a concurrent resolution, nor is it a joint
            resolution. It i simply a Senate resolution.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Yes, sir. I understand that.
          Mr. BRADLEY. The resolution is set out in the appeal.
          Mr. GREEN (interposing) If the chair pleases, the point of order made is this--
          Mr. BRADLEY (resuming.) Mr. President, I want to say further. The decision of the
            President was made during a roll call, before the result had been announced. Right then
            I took the appeal, aud the President allowed the appeal, but I had not time to send it
            up before adjournment took place.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I understand that The gentleman states it correctly. The
            Senator can have the appeal, of course.
          Mr GREEN. My point of order was that he can not have it now, because it was out of
            order pending a roll call, and the Senate having adjourned, it must come in anew.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I think the appeal is in order, and pending the appeal, I will
            rule the resolution of the Senator from Vigo, [Mr. Scott,] out of order, that the Senate
            may vote upon the question raised by the Senator from Laporte, [Mr. Bradley.] The
            decision is a little peculiar, but I think it is right. Read the appeal.
          Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President, will that interfere with my resolution?
          Mr. BROWN. A motion to adjourn is always in order.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Let the Senator have his appeal.
          Mr. BROWN. What is the point of order in the appeal?
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR to the Secretary. Read the appeal.
          The Secretary read as follows:
          "Senator Henderson, having on Thursday, February 23, introduced the following
            resolution, to-wit:
          
            
              
                "Resolved, That the Auditor of State be and he is hereby
                  directed to issue his warrant on the treasury in favor of A. E. and W. H. Drapier,
                  for the same number of copies of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS of the
                  Forty-seventh Assembly as have been furnished every session since 1857, the same
                  price paid per page per copy for the last several volumes, to be paid out of the
                  tund appropriated for legislative expenses; and three copies to be bound in sheep
                  for each member and elective officer."
                "Which was pending when the Senate adjourned, and on the meeting of the Senate at
                  the next session, a motion was made to adjourn, pending a roll call on said
                  motion, the President decided the said resolution of Senator Henderson out of
                  order, from which decision we respectfully appeal
                
                  [Signed]
                  JAMES BRADLEY, E.
                      HENDERSON." 
              
            
          
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. I based my decision, I will say to the Senator from Jackson [Mr.
            Brown] and others who were not here at the time, upon this ground: This isnot a
            resolution to pay the expenses of the Senate simply but to pay the expenses of the
            General Assembly, and to that extent it goes towards legislating as an act of the
            General Assembly, and for that reason I think it not in order. I think it might be in
            order, if the Senate will allow me, to introduce a resolution to pay any employe, or to
            grant leave of absence, or anything else that is purely a matter within the scope of the
            Senate; but in view of the fact that thirty-four Representatives have resigned, and
            thereby destroyed one branch of the General Assembly, there is no General Assembly, and
            we can not do an act that looks toward legislating for the General Assembly, in my
            judgment.
          Mr. BROWN, Mr. President, I concur in the opinion of the Chair, as stated by the Chair.
            The only trouble with me is as to the effect of the resolution, and I am inclined to
            favor the opinion of the Chair on that, and think I shall vote to sustain the opinion of
            the Chair. My idea about our situation, in brief, is this: that it is competent for this
            Senate to pass any resolution the object hoped to be accomplished by which depends
            solely upon the Senate, and where the action of the House of Representatives is not
            involved. I think the Senate may do that, but I do not believe there is any rightful
            authority for this Senate to do anything either by way of a resolution or by the passage
            of a bill, the existence of which depends upon the action of the House, and inasmuch as
            this resolution is not a resolution merely to pay some of the expenses of the Senate,
            but a resolution to pay the expenses of the General Assembly, upon reflection I am
            inclined to think the Chair ia right an shall vote to sustain it.
          Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President. I call again attention to the reading of the resolution. It
            is not a joint resolution, nor is it a concurrent resolution. There is nothing in it
            with regard to paying the expenses of the General Assembly. It is simply a resolution of
            the Senate and applies only to the Senate.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. If the Senator will allow me, I will state that the resolution is
            to pay the expenses of both branches of the General Assembly.
          Mr. BRADLEY. Not at all.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. Let it be read.
          Mr. BRADLEY. Let it be read.
          The Secretary read the resolution again.
          Mr. BROWN. That has been done here tofore by concurrent action of the two Houses.
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. That is the way it ought to be done. The question is, shall the
            decision of the Chair stand as the judgment of the Senate?
          Mr. LASSELLE. Mr. President. Before the vote is taken I wish to say that while we may
            not pass a concurrent resolution, the question is have we not as a Senate wild a quorum
            present to pass any resolution having reference to our action as a body? True, as far as
            this session is concerned, if we were to pass a concurrent resolution it would be a
            nulity, because there is no quo-  rum in the other
            House to pass it there, but we have an act passed in 1867, providing that any business
            that has not been completed at the regular session will take its place in the business
            of a special session immediately following
          The LIEUT. GOVERNOR Let me ask the Senator a question. Does not that presuppose the
            idea of the existence of a General Assembly--a Senate and a House of
            Representatives?
          Mr. LASSELLE. I have no doubt of that point. None whatever. But I will proceed to give
            my opinion, and in doing so let us view this matter calmly and dispassionately, as the
            Senate of Indiana ought to do. Now, sir, as to the question, is this a legislative body?
            There is no doubt as to this being a Senate; in the House there is not a quorum to do
            business; but I think it is a legislative body in the contemplation of the Constitution.
            There is no question of that fact in my mind. The fact there is no quorum there, does
            not go to the question before us Members of the Legislature are elected under the
            Constitution, take the oath, and after organization under the prescribed rules, then
            they are a House of Representatives, I agree that after the record shows there is no
            quorum they are not able to proceed with legislative business That is clear to my mind,
            although some very prominent individuals, among others Governor Morton, took an extreme
            view of this matter. Others think that neither House in the absence of a quorum has the
            power to adjourn sine die--has the right to do nothing but adjourn
            from day to day and compel the attendance of absent members. Others again take the
            position of Governor Morton, that although there may be less than a quorum--though
            enough may have resigned and did, leaving less than a quorum, yet those remaining, be
            they 20, 40, or 65, are a House, and two-thirds of that House is a quorum capable of
            going on and doing Legislative business.
          I am not one of those who take that view, and I say to the credit of the Republican
            party of Indiana that I do not think there is not a man in the Senate or House that will
            sustain Governor Morton in that view which goes to the extreme. I think I take a
            conservative, constitutional position upon this question. I shall avoid extremes, and
            look at it in a constitutional, plain, practical, reasonable point of view. When one
            hundred members of the House of Representatives are elected, two-thirds of that number,
            or any number above sixty-seven, constitutes the House, and when they meet and are
            organized that body has received an existence as a legislative body under the
            constitution, and it maintains its existence as a legislative body under the
            constitution until the termination of its existence, and its existence can not be
            terminated except by an adjournment sine die. Now it may not have full
            power during all the time of its existence to do every legislative act--but, sir, it is
            a legislative body under the constitution. It has a Speaker, and it has officers and its
            members may vote upon questions--it may adjourn from day to day, and compel the
            attendance ot absent members--it may do everything but perform legislative business.
          Now, Mr. President, if it be true that because the House has no quorum we can do no
            business, what kind of a predicament would we be placed in? This Senate has passed
            hundreds, and I may say thousands of laws since the organization of this State, when
            there was no quorum in the other House. We have frequently passed bills here when they
            were not in session and when they had no quorum, and if it be true that because the
            House has no quorum we should do no legislative business here, when they adjourn for
            only two or three days as they have a right to do under the Constitution without our
            consent, are we to suspend all legislative business?
          The LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR. Certainly not. But now we are officially informed that there
            is no House, and we know that there cannot be a House this session.
          Mr. LASSELLE. I apprehend that makes no difference. It is true there may be a point
            made by taking that view; and, Sir, I admit, of course, that there is no quorum,but in
            my opinion that makes the House no less a concurrent legislative body with this,from the
            fact that it has been organized, was put into existence, and has its existence
            terminated? I submit that question to Senators. Was it not a House on the day we first
            met--on the day we organized? Has it ceased to be a House? If so, how has it ceased to
            be a House? It must still be alive unless its existence has been terminated. It is true
            enough members of that House has resigned to break a quorum,so far limiting its powers,
            but has it terminated its existence? Is it not a House of Representatives under the
            Constitution? True, it has not full power equal with this body, and must remain so until
            both Houses agree to terminate the session by an adjournment sine
            die.
          Suppose we pass a bill that the House has passed and send it to the House for the
            Speaker to sign. The Speaker is a ministerial officer, and nothing more. The
            constitution has put him there to sign bills and do other acts, whether there is a
            quorum or not. He is independent of a quorum. He is no part of the legislature. It is
            made his duty by the constitution to sign bills that may come before him. That is as
            much his business with a quorum as without a quorum. Now, the power of the House is
            limited to a quorum--it is limited to legislative business only when it has a quorum;
            but the duties of a Speaker are not limited to a quorum. There is no limitation in that
            respect by the constitution, and I maintain that it is just as much his duty if we pass
            a bill under the requirements of the constitution to sign that bill now, as if there was
            a full quorum in the House.
          In regard to the merits of this question, it seems to me we are sent here to perform
            all legislation necessary. I am not going to reflect upon the legislation of the House.
            I  stand here as a Senator to perform my duties as
            a Senator in this body, and it seems to me not only in consonance with our duty and
            dignity as Senators having been sent here by the people to remain until the last moment
            and perform every action we have the power to do; but in my opinion, sir, if we adjourn
            and go home without making every reasonable effort to perform the labors before us, we
            will be censurable by our constituents and we ought to be censured.
          Now, if there should be any doubt upon this matter in the minds of gentlemen we ought
            to take the benefit of it in favor of the people--in favor of doing their legislative
            business. If we should make a mistake, which I think we will not, the Governor, whose
            duty it is to look into the constitution, can give his opinion, approving or
            disapproving our acts. Let us, even in case of doubt, pass every bill we have before us
            from the House, and do all other necessary legislation; let it go before the Governor;
            let him take counsel upon it, and if he thinks we have no power to pass bills, that ends
            the matter. He is a sound lawyer, and if he comes to the conclusion that we have no
            power to perform legislative acts, until we have such objection from the Governor, I
            will insist it is our duty to go on and at least act upon every bill of the House before
            us. We have, I am told, thirty-five bills from the House, some of them very important
            bills, and I think we ought to act upon these bills, approve or disapprove of them, as
            may be for the best interests of the people.
          I will say, in conclusion, Mr. President, that this is a very grave question. I know
            there is a division of opinion on this point, and I think the Senate, out of
            self-respect for itself and the people of Indiana, ought to think calmly upon it, and
            take time to discuss it fully and fairly, and act accordingly, because what we do on
            this occasion will perhaps be a precedent for years. Of course we know how we are all
            governed by precedents.
          Mr. GRAY. I desire to ask the Senator when the Legislature assembled on the 5th of
            January last, whether there could have been any such a thing as a House till two-thirds
            of the members were sworn in?
          Mr. LASSELLE. I think not.
          Mr. GRAY. I will ask the Senator if he thinks it requires two thirds of the members to
            be sworn in and take their seat in order to constitute a House, whether, when a
            sufficient number resigns to make less than two-thirds, it does not destroy the
            House?
          Mr. LASSELLE. The House can have no existence until its organization, and when that
            organization is completed, it continues its existence until that organization is
            terminated. That is just the difference. In one case the House never had a life,
            existence or beginning, and in the other case it had a beginning--a legal,
            constitutional organization, and that organisation was kept up with full privileges and
            powers until 34 members resigned; but that I maintain, does not terminate its existence.
            If gentlemen can show me authority anywhere that a resignation terminated the
            constitutional existence, I should like to see it.
          Mr. GRAY. The tenth section of article four of the Constitution says: "Each House when
            assembled shall choose its own officers, (the President of the Senate excepted,) judge
            the elections, qualifications and returns of its own members," &c. I will ask the
            Senator if he thinks the House of Representatives now, can judge of the elections
            qualifications and returns of its members?
          Mr. LASSELLE. I will admit, as I have before, that the House, in the absence of a
            quorum, can not do legislative business. That I admit all the time, but I do not admit
            that the House has no existence. Simply because it is shorn of its powers, is it
            therefore shorn of its life? No, sir. It has all the power not taken from it by the
            Constitution. The only power taken from it in the absence of a quorum is the power to do
            legislative business.
          Mr. BROWN. I understood the Senator to say that the House of Representatives still has
            all powers, except those lost by one-third of its members resigning. Will the Senator be
            kind enough to tell us what power that House can exercise?
          Mr. LASSELLE. I will tell the gentleman, if he don't know, that if he will look into
            the constitution of our State he will find that they have the power to adjourn from day
            to day.
          Mr. BROWN (in his seat.) That is satisfactory.
          Mr. LASSELLE. And I do not know, Mr. President, but they may have other powers, because
            the rules of law and construction are made to apply to constitutional questions. For
            instance, the Constitution gave the Honse no power to adjourn sine
            die, either with or without the concurrent action of the Senate. Will any gentleman
            tell me that that body, with our concurrence, could not adjourn sine
              die? Why, sir, it that were the case, we could never adjourn sine
              die. Supposing the limitation instead of being 61 days, was like, I believe, the
            British Parliament, seven years, according to the construction of some of these
            gentlemen we would have to continue in session for seven years, simply because 34
            members of the House have resigned? No, Mr. President; there is reason in everything. It
            is not necessary that the constitution and law should state every particular. Human
            reason and common sense must explain the constitution as they do law. What I contend is,
            that it is a House in contemplation of the constitution, and having received life and
            existence, nothing since has terminated that existence, and nothing can terminate it but
            an adjournment sine die, unless there may be a section in the
            constitution which authorizes the Governor to do so.
          Mr GLESSNER. The constitution terminates its existence by limitation.
          Mr. LASSELLE. I admit that its existence can only be terminated by limitation of the
            Constitution,or by its own action. As I said before, Mr. President, I think we ought to
            do all the legislative business we can, for we  may
            be doing that which will be quoted as a precedent hereafter. I feel anxious, as I have
            been sent here by the people of Indiana to do everything I can to advance their
            interests, and when I find I can do nothing to that end, I am willing to adjourn and go
            home.
          I am one of those who do not wish to sit here after we find that we can do nothing in
            the way of legislating for the people. As far as I am concerned I wish to state that I
            will use all the doubts that may be in the case for the benefit of my constituents. Even
            if I had any doubts, which I have not, I would try to legislate for the benefit of my
            constituency. In this case we will do no wrong we will be inflicting no wrong upon any
            one.
          Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. President. We are a little differently situated from any time in my
            recollection of the history of legislation in Indiana. If we were situated as we were
            two years ago, there would be no question in my mind at all, for our right to legislate
            at that time had ceased; we had no power whatever. It is quite different now. We have a
            body here composed of thirty or forty members in attendance from day to day, and the
            question arises, can we pass bills that originated in the other branch of the General
            Assembly when they had a full body there? Can we legislate here when they have no quorum
            there? I Senators will look back to 1863 they will find that three-fourths of the laws
            passed were signed by the Governor when there was no quorum in the House of
            Representatives. I am aware that Senators will say they were absent without leave, but
            they had no quorum for twelve days before the close of the session, and this body did
            take up bills and pass them that had passed there in accordance with the State
            Constitution. I will read one of them. It was a bill to raise revenue for 1863 and 1864.
            It was taken up and passed on the 16th of March. It passed the House of Representatives
            on the very day before they broke a quorum and went off to Madison. It was passed on the
            6th of March and received the signature of the Governor and become the law of the
            land.
          Now what is our duty? What is the duty of each House? The Constitution tells us very
            plain what our duty is; "two-thirds of each House shall constitute a quorum to do
            business; but a smaller number may meet, adjourn from day to day, and compell the
            attendance of absent members." This is one provision, sir, but what is our duty in
            regard to the passage of bills, "a majority of all the members elected to each House
            shall be necessary to pass every bill or joint resolution; and all bills and joint
            resolutions so passed shall be signed by the presiding officers of the respective
            Houses." Notwithstanding which the President said a few days ago, that he would not sign
            any bills hereafter, I think it is imperative upon him.
          The LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR (interposing.) I did that because I believe the doctrine the
            Senator himself declared, that the existonce of the General Assembly terminated on the
            23rd instant, by the resignation of 34 members.
          Mr. WILLIAMS. As far as legislation between the two branches are concerned no one will
            contend against the decision of the chair in that respect. But, sir, when that House
            passes a bill with a fair majority, two-thirds being there and 51 members having voted
            for it, and that fact being certified here by the Clerk of the House, and we take it and
            pass it, two-thirds of this body being present and 26 members voting for it, sir, where
            is the President's authority for refusing to sign it? Now, sir, I take it that we have
            just as good a right to pass any bill coming from the House legally passed as we have to
            pass a bill at any time when the House was not in session, or was without a quorum. The
            House may fail to be in session on a day we pass a bill, and you will say there was no
            House because it was not in session. It was discovered on the 25th of February, 1863,
            that there was no quorum in the House, yet we went on to pass bills originating in the
            House, which came to this body from them to the close of the session. They were sent to
            the Governor and approved by him and become laws. They were approved March 2, March 7,
            March 9, March 11, and so on.
          Mr. HOOPER. Will the Senator allow me to suggest a question. Do you suppose we can pass
            a bill except one which has already passed the House?
          Mr. WILLIAMS. No, sir, I do not. No bill that has not come to us prior to the
            resignations have we any right to pass, but any bill the House of Representatives passed
            in the manner which I read in the constitution we have the power to pass here to day,
            sir, or any other day, it we have votes enough or it, unless we have a quorum broke in
            this body. If gentlemen had carried out to the letter the examples set two years ago, it
            would not be in our power, but they have only done half of it. If they want to terminate
            legislation entirely, let them vacate 17 seats in this body, that will do it
            effectually.
          Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I do not agree with the Senator who has just taken his seat,
            and I am sorry I can not agree with him, because he is a Senator for whose opinion upon
            parliamentary and constitutional law I have great respect, and his long experience in
            the General Assembly of the State entitles his opinions to large considerations and
            weight. But at the same time on this occasion the Senator is mistaken. He says there is
            clearly power for the Senate to take up bills upon our table which have been passed by
            the House of Representative and pass them. I do not think there is any such power, and I
            say now, I shall not vote for any such course of proceeding, simply because I do not
            think it can be warranted by the Constitution.
          The case the Senator puts to sustain his view is not a case in point. He says that in
            1863, after thirty odd members of the House of Representatives left their seats, the
            Sen-  ate passed bills that had been previously
            passed the House of Representatives, and then the Governor of the State signed those
            bills, and they became laws. That is all true, sir, and it was right and proper, in my
            judgment, that it should have bean done thus. The mistake the Senator makes is simply
            this, that in 1863 the House of Representatives did not lose its constitutional power to
            perform legislative business, but by a revolutionary action of a portion of the members
            of that House for the time being its constitutional power for legislative purposes was
            suspended, but the House did not lose its constitutional character as a House of
            Representatives. The difference is this: If the thirty-four members of the House instead
            of resigning the other day had gone home either with leave or without leave, it still
            would have been a House of Representatives under the constitution and laws of the State
            of Indiana, and because part of the members thereof not being in their places and
            performing their duties the legislative action of the House or the time being would be
            suspended, and the legislative existence of this General Assembly, under the
            constitution, would not have been destroyed; but what is the case now, sir ? Members of
            the House have not simply gone away; they have resigned, and there is no power under the
            constitution and laws of the State to prevent that resignation ; and the effect of that
            resignation is to destroy the constitutional existence of that body; and without the
            constitutional existence of that body there is no General Assembly in the State of
            Indiana with power to perform legislative business.
          The Constitution says: "The legislative authority of this State shall be vested in the
            General Assembly, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives." That is
            the General Assembly of the State of Indiana--a Senate and House of Representatives. The
            Constitution provides that the Senate shall not exceed fifty members, and the House of
            Representatives shall not exceed one hundred members, and the law made in pursuance
            thereof, declares that the House of Representatives shall consist of one hundred
            members, and the Senate shall consist of fifty members. Then there can be no House of
            Representatives, sir, unless the House of Representatives is of such a number--one
            hundred--as the Constitution says shall be the number.
          Mr. LASSELLE (interposing) I would call the attention of the Senator to the fact that
            the Constitution does not say that the number shall be 100.
          Mr. BROWN. But the laws of the State of Indiana passed in pursuance thereof fixes the
            number of each House. Let me say to the able and distinguished lawyer over the way that
            this Constitutional provision confers upon General Assembly the discretion of saying of
            what number the Senate and House of Representatives shall consist, so it does not go
            beyond 50 and 100.
          Again the Constitution further provides that "no law shall be passed the taking effect
            of which shall be made to depend upon any authority except as provided in this
            Constitution." It is the General Assembly of the State of Indiana whose authority puts
            into effect every law, and if you pass a bill through the Senate which has passed tho
            House of Representatives, there is no General Assembly to stand behind that bill to put
            it into effect and operation.
          Mr. LASSELLE. Do you take the ground that the House of Representatives consists of 100
            members?
          Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.
          Mr. LASSELLE. Suppose one member dies, can the others act on as a Legislature?
          Mr. BROWN. Of course they can. Of course they can, simply because the Constitution
            provides that two thirds of one hundred may do legislative business.
          Mr. LASSELLE. I did not put the question properly. It should be: If one dies, does that
            destroy the existence of the body?
          Mr. BROWN. No, sir, it does not.
          Mr. LASSELLE. If thirty-four?
          Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir, it does, simply because the constitution says that nothing less
            than two-thirds can perform the functions of the body. We will go on with this question
            of adjournment for a moment. Section 10 of article 4 of the constitution says: "But
            neither House shall without the consent of the other adjourn for more than three days,
            nor to any place other than that in which it may be sitting." Now, upon this section of
            the constitution, I am told by some persons, there is no power under the constitution to
            adjourn this Assembly sine die until next Monday, the day on which the constitution says
            the Assembly shall close its existence. That construction of this sentence I can not and
            will not support. What this section of the Constitution means is this,that neither House
            without the consent of the ether shall adjourn for more than three days when there is to
            be a reassembling of that House during the existing session of the General Assembly. The
            question of the adjournment contained in this section of the Constitution refers to an
            adjournment upon which there is to be a continuation of the General Assembly during that
            session, and has no reference whatever to the final adjournment of that body.
          Then I come to the next section which is also brought in, "two-thirds of each House
            shall constitute a quorum to do business; but a smaller number may meet and adjourn from
            day to day and compel the attendance of absent members." Now, some gentlemen hold, that
            the House of Representatives can't adjourn for three days, but it must meet from day to
            day and adjourn, because it must meet to compel the attendance of absent members.
            Nothing can be more inconsistent in my judgment with the plain intention and meaning of
            this Constitution. This Constitution does not provide that there can be no other
            adjournment what this Constitution means is this: that when there are a number of
            members absent, whether it reduced the number below two-thirds or not, it has the power
            to adjourn from day to day, and compel the attendance  of the absentees; but in the House of Representatives there
            are no absentees which you can compel the attendance of. Then this section of the
            Constitution does not meet the case. Neither of these sections of the Constitution refer
            to the final adjournment of the body.
          The LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR. I thought the appeal of the Senato would take precedence to a
            motion to adjourn to a day certain, but on referring to the rules I find that a motion
            to adjourn and a motion to fix a day to which the house shall adjourn shall always be in
            order.
          Mr. GREEN. Then you hold that the resolution to adjourn is always in order?
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Yes, sir. The resolution of the Senator from Vigo (Mr. Scott)
            is in order.
           Mr. BROWN. I move to amend the resolution by providing that the Senate adjourn sine die.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Send up your amendment in writing.
          Mr. WILLIAMS. I rise to a point of order, that the Senator's amendment is not in order.
            The motion to adjourn to a day certain should take precedence. A motion to adjourn
            absolutely and finally can not come in ahead.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I am not clear about that, and I am not clear that the
            amendment is in order, and I believe I will role it to be in order now.
          Mr. WILLIAMS. I suppose--
          The LIEUTEEANT GOVERNOR (interrupting.) It is an amendmfnt, any how, and the questien
            of order should come up after it is read. I am satisfied that this House, under the
            constitution, may adjourn sine die, if it is disposed to do so. We
            have it on our journals that there is no House to consent to a concurrent resolution,
            even if one be required. But without determining that question, we have indubitable
            evidence that there is no House to consent; therefore, if the Senate chooses to adjourn,
            I will rule that it is in order to offer an amendment of that sort to the
            resolution.
          Amend by striking out the word "when" and all after the word "adjourn" and insert in
            lieu the words "sine die," so that it will read: Resolved that the
            Senate adjourn sine die.
          The yeas and nays being demanded.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR said: As many Senators as favor the substitute offered by the
            Senator from Jackson will say "aye" as their names are called, and as many as are of the
            contrary opinion will say "no" as their names are called.
          The vote resulted as follows:
          
            
              
                YEAS--Messrs. Armstrong, Beardsley, Beeson, Beggs, Brown,
                  Carnahan, Case, Caven, Collett, Denbo, Elliott, Francisco, Glessner, Gray, Green,
                  Henderson, Hooper, Hubbard, Martindale, Miller. Robinson, Rosebrough, Steele,
                  Straud, Taylor, Wadge, and Mr. Wood--27
                NAYS--Messrs. Alsop, Bradley, Dittemore, Fuller, Gregg, Johnson, Lasselle,
                  Morgan, Scott, Williams--10.
              
            
          
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The yeas are 27, nays 10. So the resolution prevails and I
            will declare the Senate of the 47th General Assembly adjourned sine
              die.
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            MONDAY, February 27, 1871.
          
          The House met at 9 o'clock a. m.
          Mr. NEFF. In the absence of the Speaker, I move that the gentleman from Brown, (Mr.
            Browning) take the Chair; as many as favor that motion say "aye;" those oppose say "no."
            The gentleman is elected.
          Mr. Browning took the Chair, called the House to order, and ordered the Clerk to call
            the roll.
          The Clerk executed this order, and the following members answered to their names:
          Britton, Browning, Cauthorn, Coggswell, Hardin, Haynes, Hendry, Holland, Hynes, Martin
            of Wayne, McDonald, McDowell, McFarland, McGowan, Miles, Neff, Simpson, Taylor, Tebbs,
            Wyner and Mr. Zenor--21.
          The SPEAKER (Mr. Browning in the chair.) There being no quorum present, I therefore
            declare the House adjourned till to-morrow morring at 9 o'clock.
        

        

        
          THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
          TWELFTH VOLUME.
          INDIANA LEGISLATURE.
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            TUESDAY, February 28, 1871.
          
          The SPEAKER--at 9 o'clock A. M.--commanding order with the gavel, said: Gentlemen of the House: When we met on yesterday the Senate had nat adjourned,
            and it was the judgment of the Chair that we ought to continue our meetings and
            adjournments until that body took definite action on bringing the Legislature to a
            close. When the Senate met in the afternoon it found a number of bills on file that had
            passed the House. A proposition was made to take them up, when it was announced by the
            Lieutenant Governor that he would sign no bills if the Senate passed them, for the
            reason that this House had not a quorum.
          The majority of this House are a unit in, the opinion that sixty-seven members are
            necessary to transact legislative business, and will be gratified to find that the
            Lieutenant Governor, who is an able lawyer and parliamentarian, now endorses the
            doctrine which declares that the infamous Fifteenth Amendment and the specific
            appropriation bill, passed after more than one-third of the members of each House had
            resigned, was a fraud upon the people, and null and void. This announcement ot the
            Lieutenant Governor was evidence that nothing good could be accomplished by the Senate
            remaining in session; therefore, a resolution must pass adjourning sine
              die.
          We are this morning left in an anomalous position--a part of a legislative branch
            powerless to act.
          Before the adjournment of the Senate, it was supposed by the Lieutenant Governor that
            we had signed all the bills that had passed both Houses, but since that body has
            adjourned I have learned that the Indianapolis School bill, in which the city took some
            interest, had not been signed by either of us, therefore, at present, I am inclined to
            the opinion that the bill cannot become a law. The reason why this bill was not signed
            was because the members from the county of Marion, who had the bill in charge, resigned
            as soon as it was passed the House and Senate, and it was left with no one to look after
            it, and in the confusion that followed the suspension of business in the House it was
            overlooked and not enrolled until after the Senate had adjourned sine die The people of
            Indianapolis, who may regret the loss of this bill, will have to settle the account with
            their own Representatives who, with others, were so frightened lest another bill might
            be passed a week hence that they stampeded at midnight, and resigned their seats at an
            hour when honest men should have been asleep.
          I have no reproaches here to cast upon the members who, in the midst of the session,
            without excuse, broke a quotum, and thereby prevented the enactment of laws demanded by
            the people. They may be able to satisfy their credulous constituents that the fact that
            the apportionment bill might have come up for final action in a week was sufficient
            cause for them to resign in hot haste at midnight; and that the monied anti-bank tax
            lobby members who attended the resignation caucus, and the lobby to prevent the railroad
            assessment being increased from thirty to forty millions, together with a lively desire
            among old officials who attended the caucus, to prevent the lowering of "house rent,"
            the investigations into superintendents' reports and an examination into the official
            affairs of former Treasurers of State, had no influence with them.
          I have heard no charge, and would be slow to believe it if made, that the monied rings
            and lobbyists used any money upon members who resigned to influence their action; still
            it is known that the lobbyists and others having a pecuniary interest in defeating bills
            were active in urging members to resign. They made the apportionment bill the "bug-bear"
            to scare the voters--to scare them into their wicked and unpardonable act, thereby
            playing into the hands of a monied lobby and monied interests.
          For those whose partiality placed me in the high official position I have occupied in
            the House, it affords me heartfelt pleasure here to say that every one has shown himself
            to be worthy of his trust--a more faithful, industrious, honorable class of men never
            assembled in this hall.
          For the gentlemen of the opposition I entertain only feelings of respect and
            friendship. I am proud of having made their acquaintance, and hope to retain it as long
            as I live.
          Our power and usefulness as a body have ended, and having no authority to hear a motion
            to adjourn, and by common consent of the members present, I declare the House adjourned
            without day.
          So close the proceedings of the Forty-seventh General Assembly of the State of
            Indiana.
        
      
    

    

    
      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        VOLUME TWELFTH.
        WABASH AND ERIE CANAL--DEBATE IN CONTINUATION.
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            THURSDAY, January 17, 1871.
          
          [CONTINUED FROM THE FOOT OF PAGE 79.]
          In May, 1846, the foreign bondholders held a meeting in the city of London, and this
            act was fully considered by them. After full discussion, various amendments and
            modifications were drawn up and put in proper form and placed in the hands of Mr.
            Butler, to be by him presented to the next General Assembly of this State, which met
            December, 1846. At that meeting of the General Assembly, Mr. Butler presented the
            amendments that had been prepared at the London meeting, and urged that they should be
            made the subject of a legislative act. The result was that on the 27th of January, 1847,
            the Legislature of the State passed an act supplemental to that of January 19, 1846, the
            object of which was to more clearly define the rights and privileges of the creditors
            under the act of January 19, 1846, and to more completely and successfully provide for
            carrying into effect the compromise and settlement of the debt, as made by the original
            act. The first four sections of the elemental act expressly provided that one half of
            the debt should be paid out of the revenues of the State, and the other half only to be
            paid out of the canal lands, the tolls, revenues and proceeds of the canal. The
            supplemental act also furnishes the forms for the bonds to be issued under said acts.
            For that half of the principal of the debt to be paid out of the revenues of the State
            the bond, as furnished by the act, provides:
          "Be it known, That the State of Indiana owes to A. B. or his assigns, the sum of one
            thousand dollars, being part of the principal of the bonds of the State declared to have
            been surrendered to the State by act of surrender of this date, and which amount of one
            thousand dollars bears interest at the rate of five per centum per annum from the first
            day of January,1847, payable half yearly, in the City of New York, at the times and in
            the manner declared by the acts of the Legislature above mentioned."
          For the other half of the principal of the debt the bond provides:
          "Be it known, That the Wabash and Erie Canal, and all tolls, lands and effects
            appertaining thereto, from the State line to Evansville, on the Ohio river, as described
            in the above mentioned acts of the Legislature, and all the property of the State of
            Indiana therein, are irrevocably pledged, in virtue of the said acts, to A. B. and his
            assigns, for the sum of one thousand dollars, represented by this certificate forming
            part of the bonds of the State declared to have been surrendered by an act of surrender
            of this date), together with interest upon the same at the rate of five per centum per
            annum from the first day of January, 1847, payable semi-annually, by equal payments at
            the times, and in the form and manner prescribed in the acts of the Legislature of the
            State of Indiana above mentioned."
          The forms for the bonds for the interest are in the same language.
          It seems to me clear that, by the terms and provisions of the acts of 1846-47, the
            State is relieved from all moral or other liability to pay any part of her old internal
            improvement debt except that moiety which, by the provisions of the acts, was expressly
            laid to her charge. The language of the acts clearly show that such is the fact. That
            legislation was not ordinary legislation. It was not the action of Legislators putting
            forth their own will and opinions independent of the desires and opinions of others, but
            it was the joint action of the Legislature representing the State and of Charles Butler,
            Esq., representing her creditors. It was the concurrent action of creditor and debtor
            adjusting an existing debt, and each are bound by it for all time to come It was a
            legislative contract entered into by the State at the solicitation of her creditors, and
            every clause, proviso, and matter and thing contained in it are binding upon all parties
            connected with it.
          
            MEMORIAL OF BONDHOLDERS OF 1857.
            In a memorial presented to the Legislature of this State, in 1857, by the
              bondholders, they say:
            "In their anxiety both for their own interests and the continued prosperity and honor
              of the State, a large body of them united in 1845 in sending their agent, Mr. Charles
              Butler, of New York, to Indianapolis to confer with the Governor and Legislatare, as
              well as the principal citizens, in regard to some judicious measure by which the
              interests of all parties should be secured and promoted."
            In all deliberations had in reference to the accomplishment of this object, Mr.
              Butler, the accredited agent of the bondholders, was present and participated, and his
              pen drew many of the main provisions of the acts of 1846-7. And it was mainly through
              his efforts that the State changed her position of guarantor to that of actual debtor.
              The compromises and settlement of the debt of 1846-7 were sought by the creditors of
              the State. When that settlement was made they all acquiesced in it, and it is now too
              late to change or disturb it.

            

            On the 30th of May, 1846, a committee of the European bondholders held a meeting in
              the city of London. The object of that meeting was to take into consideration the
              adjustment and settlement of Indiana's public debt, and to consider whether the
              provisions of the act of January 19, 1846, were fair and equitable. At that meeting it
              was resolved:
            " That under the circumstances stated in the report of Mr. Charles Butler, confirmed
              by a letter of His Excellency, James Whitcomb, dated 5th February last, addressed to
              Mr. Palmer, it is the opinion of the committee that it will be for the interest of the
              bondholders of the State of Indiana to concur in the principle laid down in the act of
              the Legislature, passed at Indianapolis on the 19th of January, for the adjustment of
              the debt of that State, by the payment of one moiety of the principal and interest by
              taxation, and the other moiety by the property and tolls of the canal, from the State
              line adjoining Ohio to Evansville, on the Ohio River, such property to be assigned to
              three trustees, and the State to be freed from responsibility on that portion of the
              debt and interest so to be secured."
            This was a positive ratification of the act of settlement by our foreign bondholders,
              and an expression of satisfaction on their part with the arrangement made. Our
              domestic bondholders were likewise well pleased, and it was confidently hoped and
              expected by all that Indiana would be soon relieved from the embarrassment of her
              public debt. The State kept the faith she then pledged. Each year she paid the
              interest on that part of the debt for which she was liable, and she has redeemed
              nearly all the bonds. She has performed her part of the agreement in letter and
              spirit, and justice, equity and honesty requires that her creditors perform
              theirs.
            In March, 1857, a committee representing the foreign and domestic holders of the
              stocks the payment of which was expressly charged upon the Wabash and Erie Canal,
              presented a very able and elaborate memorial to the Legislature of this State, asking
              that the State compensate the holders of such bonds to the full amount thereof. The
              principal reason stated in the memorial why the State should redeem the canal bonds is
              that in 1852 the Legislature passed a general law for the incorporation of railways
              that enabled companies and individuals to construct railways which came in direct
              competition with the Wabash and Erie Canal; that the construction of railways was
              prosecuted to such an extent, and the competition had become so great that it greatly
              reduced the prices for transportation on the canal and diminished its patronage. The
              right and expediency of the State to provide for the construction of railways is
              clearly shown in the memorial. It says:
            "Of course neither we, nor the stockholders we represent, question the right ot the
              Legislature to enact any laws that may be deemed salutary or expedient; that is a
              matter wholly within its own discretion; nor do we desire to condemn the policy which
              has led the State into its vast and useful system of railroad communication. On the
              contrary, we rejoice in the liberality of disposition and the energy of enterprise
              which is manifested in these undertakings; we rejoice in the advantages which they
              have brought, and are still bringing to its inhabitants, by the impulses they give to
              production; by the access they open to new and better markets; by the value conferred
              upon land, and by the facilities presented to commercial and friendly
              intercourse."
            If the system of railways are of such great profit and advantage to the State, that
              in itself is a complete justification of the State in permitting them to be
              constructed. When the bondholders took the Wabash and Erie Canal, they took with it
              the hazzard of competition. They took no indemnity against the great enterprises that
              were then hid in the future. And indeed it would have been a great wrong and injustice
              to have provided that there should be no competing means of transportation with the
              canal, thereby permitting it to charge extravagant prices because of its power of
              monopoly, and leaving large districts of country undeveloped, because of the want of
              outlets to market.
          
          
            POSITION OF STATE OFFICERS AND LEGISLATURE IN 1857.
            But this whole subject as well as everything else stated in the memorial, was
              carefully considered by the Governor, the Attorney General and Legislature in 1857,
              and after full consideration the Legislature passed these joint resolutions:
            
              
                
                  "Be it resolved by the General Assembly of the State of
                      Indiana, That the General Assembly of the State of Indiana has no power
                    under the Constitution to purchase the Wabash and Eire Canal.
                  "And be it further resolved by said General Assembly, That if
                    the General Assembly had the power, it would be impolitic, unwise and
                    injudicious to the best interests of the people of the State to purchase said
                    canal."
                
              
            
            Article five, section ten, of our Constitution provides that--
            " No law shall authorize any debt to be contracted on behalf of the State, except in
              the following cases: To meet casual deficits in the revenue; to pay the interest on
              the State debt; to repel invasion suppress insurrection, or, if hostilities be
              threatened, provide for the public defence."
            The State of Indiana, not now being liable for the payment of the canal bonds, to
              assume the payment of them would be contracting a debt on account of an object not
              stated in the Constitution. To do so would be clearly in violation of the
              Constitution.
          
          
            PROPOSED CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT TO PROHIBIT ASSUMPTION OF CANAL
              BONDS.
            On the 19th of February, 1869, the Senate had under consideration a resolution
              proposing an amendment to our State Constitution, that the Legislature should pass no
              law authorizing the payment by the State of the canal bonds. Hon. John R. Cravens,
              then a Senator from the county of Jefferson, called attention to this provision of our
              Constitution, and moved that the resolution be referred, to the Judiciary
                Committee, with instructions to inquire whether there was any necessity
              for the constitutional amendment, and whether the Constitution does not already
              provide sufficiently against assuming any debt contemplated by the amendment, and
              intimated an opinion that it did.
            His Excellency, Governor Baker, in his message delivered January 8 1869, says:
            "To acknowledge any liability on the part of the State for the payment of any part of
              this canal debt, would be to create a new debt for a purpose expressly interdicted by
              the Constitution."
            I am done with the first of the series of resolutions under consideration. It is my
              deliberate conviction that there is no power under 
              the Constitution to assume on behalf of the State the payment of that portion of the
              original debt which was extinguished so far as the State is concerned, by the
              conveyance of the Wabash and Erie Canal, its tolls, proceeds and revenues, together
              with some eight hundred thousand acres of land, and if the power did exist it would be
              unwise, injudicious and injurious to the best interests of the people of the State to
              exercise it.
          
          
            GOVERNOR BAKER'S SETTLEMENT OF INTERNAL IMMENT BONDS
              UNAUTHORIZED.
            I desire to call the attention of the Senate to the next resolution:
            
              
                
                  "Resolved, By the Senate, the House of Representatives
                    concurring, That the action of His Excellency, the Governor of this State, on
                    the 5th day of November, 1868, in the settlement of one hundred and forty-one of
                    the old internal improvement bonds, the principal and interest thereof amounting
                    to two hundred and seventy-seven thousand three hundred dollars, was
                    unauthorized by any law of this State, in direct violation of the acts of
                    1846-47, commonly known as the "Butler bills," and meets the disapproval of this
                    General Assembly."
                
              
            
            By the funded debt bills, the holders of the internal improvement bonds were required
              to surrender them to the Agent of State, and receive other bonds in lieu of them. They
              were not all immediately surrendered, and perhaps are not quite all surrendered yet.
              From 1864 to 1867, inclusive, the amount of these bonds unsurrendered was three
              hundred and fifty-three thousand dollars. Upon these bonds interest had been
              accumulated to perhaps half a million of dollars. Up to that time no interest had been
              paid on them for more than twenty-five years. The holders of them had not offered to
              exchange them with the Agent of State for other bonds, and had not made any demand for
              interest. His Excellency, Governor Baker, in his message, January 8, 1869, referring
              to these bonds, uses this language:
            "I have intentionally excluded from the two foregoing classes of the public debt, a
              comparatively small balance of old internal improvement bonds, which the holders
              failed or refused to surrender under the'Butler Bill,'and upon which no interest has
              been paid since 1841, except as hereinafter stated."Notwithstanding the fact that no
              interest has been paid on these bonds since 1841, they have annually appeared in the
              reports of the Auditor of State as a part of the public indebtedness. From 1864 to
              1867, inclusive, the amount of these bonds outstanding was stated at $353,000. The
              bonds thus reported were each of the denomination of $1,000, and consequently were 353
              in all. Eight of those bonds were held by the Board of Sinking Fund Commissioners, in
              trust for the Common School Fund, when the Board ceased to exist, and its effects were
              passed into the hands of the Auditor of State, under the legislation adopted at the
              special session of 1865.
            "These eight bonds had been held by the Sinking Fund Commissioners for more than
              twenty-five years, and no interest had been paid thereon subsequently to the year
              1841. By an act of March 7, 1867, entitled 'an act to consolidate certain bonds,
              stocks and accounts of the School Fund into one non-negotiable bond, and making other
              provisions in relation thereto,' the validity of these eight bonds was recognized, and
              the principal and all the accrued interest thereon was included in the new
              non-negotiable bond given by the State to the School Fund, in pursuance of the
              provisions of this act. This reduced the number of the old bonds to three hundred and
              forty-five. Afterward, in 1868, eight others of these bonds were surrendered to the
              Agent of State, and new five per cent. State stocks were issued to the holders, under
              the "Butler bill," for one-half of the principal of the bonds so surrendered, and new
              two and a half per cents were issued for one half of the interest which had accrued up
              to the date of the surrender, thereby reducing the number of these bonds outstanding
              to three hundred and thirty-seven."At the time the State suspended the payment of
              interest on her indebtedness, in 1841, the General Government held two hundred and
              eleven of these bonds in trust for certain Indian tribes. The State failed to pay any
              interest on the bonds so held by the Government after the year 1841; but the latter,
              at different subsequent periods, applied moneys to which the State became entitled
              from the sales of public lands within her limits, (commonly called the three per cent.
              fund) amounting in the aggregate to $108,208 59. This application of the three per
              cent. fund paid the interest on one hundred and forty-one of the bonds so held by the
              Government, up to July 1, 1849, and on the remaining seventy up to July 1, 1855."
            In April, 1868, Senator Morton wrote to His Excellency, the Governor of this State,
              informing him that there had been introduced into the Senate of the United States a
              bill directing the Secretary of the Treasury to deduct from the amount that may be due
              to any State on account of allowed war claims the principal and interest of all bonds
              issued by such State and held by the General Government, and informed His Excellency
              that the bill was intended to especially cover the old Internal Improvement bonds of
              this State, held by the General Government. In answer to that letter His Excellency
              says:
            "That if any objections, legal or moral, could be urged to a proposition that the
              government should retain out of adjusted claims which it owed the State a sum
              sufficient to liquidate the principal and interest due on any bonds held by the United
              States against the State, I was ignorant of the existence or nature of such
              objections."
            Again his Excellency says in the same message:
            "Subsequently on the 8th day of September, 1868, by my direction the Adjutant General
              wrote to the Secretary of the Interior requesting that the proper steps might be taken
              for the settlement of the principal and interest due on these bonds, by the
              application of a sufficient amount of the allowed war claims of the State against the
              Government to that purpose. This letter remaining unanswered, I wrote myself to the
              assistant Secretary of the Interior, on the 19th day of October, 1868, to the same
              effect. Copies of these letters are embodied in the Adjutant General's report herewith
              submitted, result was that The the Secretary of the Interior sent an agent to this
              city with the bonds so held by the Government, and on the 5th day of November, 1868,
              the 141 bonds past due, the principal thereof being $141,000, and the accrued interest
              thereon being $136,300, were surrendered to me with the attached coupons, and I
              deposited them in the vault of the Treasurer of State--the principal and interest of
              these 141 bonds, amounted to $277,300. Of the seventy remaining bonds not matured, the
              Secretary of the Interior could only produce sixty-nine, one having been lost or
              mislaid, but he had two of the coupons of the lost bond. The coupons of these last
              mentioned bonds, representing interest to the amount of $46,625, were detached and
              surrendered to me, and deposited with the Treasurer of State. The total amount of
              principal and interest settled was $323,925; and I requested, in writing, that the
              Secretary of the Treasury would transfer that amount out of the allowed war claims of
              this State against the Government to the credit of the Secretary of the Interior, in
              consideration of the surrender of said bonds arid coupons. The Government still holds
              the sixty-nine bonds, the interest thereon being settled to July 1, 1868; and the
              principal being not yet due. This leaves  one
              hundred and ninety-six of these old bonds still outstanding, one hundred and
              twenty-six of them being in the hands of persons other than the Government, and one
              claimed by the Government being lost or mislaid."
            This is an admission by His Excellency that he has redeemed and paid off at their
              face and the full amount of accrued interest thereon, one hundred and forty-one of the
              Internal Improvement bonds, the payment and settlement of which is provided for in the
              funded debt bills. If His Excellency was duly authorized to make the settlement in the
              manner and form made by him, then this resolution ought not to be adopted. But, on the
              other hand, if his conduct in that regard was not only unauthorized by law, but in
              direct violation of law and in opposition to the rights and interests of the people of
              the State, then I submit that the Legislature, the people's representatives, should
              express their disapprobation of it.
          
          
            LIABILITY OF STATE UNDER FUNDED DEBT BILLS.
            Under the funded debt bills the State was liable only for one-half of the principal
              and interest of these bonds. His Excellency has paid the full amount, and I understand
              the only excuse offered for his doing so is that these bonds had never been
              surrendered to the Agent of State and exchanged for other bonds. The fact that the
              holders of these bonds did not surrender them gave them no additional rights. The last
              proviso of section eight of the act of January 27, 1847, is in these words:
            "Provided further, That the State will make no provision whatever
              hereafter to pay either principal or interest on any internal improvement bond or
              bonds, until the holder or holders thereof shall have first surrendered said bonds to
              the Agent of State, and shall have received in lieu thereof certificates of stock, as
              provided in the first section of this act anything in this act to the contrary
              notwithstanding."
            This proviso was adopted one year after the passage of the original bill. It was
              adopted after the meeting of our foreign bondholders in London. It was adopted after
              all of our creditors had full notice of the terms of the settlement, and with their
              knowledge and consent. It has been consented to and acquiesced in for twenty-five
              years by our creditors. It was adopted for a just and equitable purpose, that of
              putting all of our creditors upon an equal footing in reference to the payment of
              their debt. It was necessary that it should have been adopted, in order that the
              provisions of the funded debt bills might be put into complete execution. Without it
              there might not have been a surrender of the bonds, and then the legislation of
              1846-'47 would have been in vain, Yet we learn from His Excellency's message that he
              has paid off in full large numbers of these unsurrendered bonds without making any
              effort whatever to have them adjusted according to the provisions of the funded debt
              bills. If the United States Government had made resistance to a proposition that these
              bonds would be redeemed according to the provisions of the funded debt bills, and that
              no settlement of our war claims could be had with her without the State redeeming the
              141 bonds at their face; then, perhaps, His Excellency ought not to be criticised for
              making the kind of settlement he did make. But no such case as that is made. His
              message shows a willingness, an offer on his part to pay them at their face with all
              their accrued interest. His predecessors had furnished him no example for doing such a
              thing. The general government held these bonds during the administrations of Governors
              Wright, Willard and Morton. They were not so forgetful of the laws of 1846-47, and so
              unmindful of the people's interests as to even consider a proposition to pay these
              bonds in the manner in which they have been paid. On the 13th of May, 1864, the State
              of Indiana was indebted to the United States over nine hundred thousand dollars under
              the act of Congress approved August 6, 1861, laying an annual tax of twenty millions
              of dollars on the States and on that day Governor Morton settled and paid the same by
              releasing to the General Government an amount of the allowed war claims due Indiana
              equal to Indiana's indebtedness to the General Government. On the 6th of March, 1865,
              Governor Morton presented what he had done in the premises to the General Assembly,
              and asked that his conduct and action be ratified, which was done. How different was
              that settlement of accounts between the State and the General Government from the one
              made by the present Executive. In the former settlement none of the provisions of the
              funded debt bills were violated and no internal improvement bonds were paid at their
              face, notwithstanding the General Government held many of them upon which large
              amounts of interest were due.
          
          
            PAYMENT OF INTERNAL IMPROVEMENT BONDS BY GOVERNOR BAKER.
            The time when the present Executive made his settlement was extraordinary. It was on
              the 5th of November, 1868. The General Assembly met only sixty days thereafter, the
              7th of January, 1869. Inasmuch as there was no law authorizing such a settlement, and
              inasmuch as all former Governors had failed to suggest a settlement of these bonds,
              would it not have been better for his Excellency to have left the matter to the
              General Assembly, the people's representatives?
            This extraordinary action and conduct of Governor Baker was a direct, open, palpable
              violation of the funded debt bills, the law governing the settlement of all our old
              internal improvement debt. It was unwarranted by the history of our public debt. It
              was unauthorized by any law or precedent. It was in opposition to the rights and
              interests of the people, and deserves the condemnation of their representatives.
            That the funded debt bills are yet in force is shown by his Excellency's Message. He
              says:
            Afterwards, in 1868, eight others of those bonds were surrendered to the Agent of
              State, and new five per cent. State stocks were issued under the "Butler Bill," for
              one-half of the principal of the bonds so surrendered, and new two-and-one-half per
              cents. were issued for one-half of the interest which had accured up to the date of
              the surrender."

            

            Who the holders of these eight bonds were His Excellency has not informed us. Perhaps
              they were some of the guardians, widows and orphans that some of the New York papers
              say are the principal holders of the canal stocks. It matters not who were the holders
              of these bonds. There cannot rightfully be two ways of paying them off--one way by
              which the full amount of principal and interest is paid, and the other by which only
              one-half of it is paid. If it was right that the General Government should have the
              full face of her bonds, including all the interest upon them, the individual holders
              should also have had the full face of their bonds, including all the interest. It is
              strange indeed that the General Government should be made a favored creditor, favored
              to such an extent that the funded debt bills are cast aside and she is permitted to
              receive twice the amount of payment allowed the private citizen.
            But it is said by some that the latter proviso of the eighth section of the act of
              January 27,1847, is repudiation. In an article published in the Cincinnati Commercial on the 21st of February, 1870, which presents the
              appearance of having been prepared as a special defense of the action of His
              Excellency, referring to this proviso, the following language is used:
            "This, it will be seen, was rank repudiation."
            Several of the New York papers that have lately taken upon themselves the burthen of
              informing the people of Indiana what their duty is in regard to these internal
              improvement bonds pronounce this proviso repudiation. Every dishonest jobber in our
              stocks, who is waiting with painful anxiety for the State to redeem the Wabash and
              Erie canal, calls this proviso repudiation. But every man who has the true interests
              of the people of Indiana at heart and who were creditors of the State in 1846-47,
              unite in saving that the proviso is a rightful part of the act, and compromise of
              Indiana's public debt, because it was consented to by all her creditors before it was
              adopted, and as such it should be maintained and upheld. But who can say, with any
              regard for consistency, that the proviso is repudiation in its application against the
              General Government, and that it is not repudiation in its application against the
              citizen? Who can justify the motive and defend the conduct of paying the General
              Government the full face of the bonds she holds, including all the interest upon them,
              and refusing to do the same thing by citizens who hold similar bonds? If it is
              repudiation for one, it is repudiation for the other, and should be applied to both
              alike. But whether repudiation or not, it is not the province of His Excellency to
              deterge it. His duty is to execute the law as he is it; not to disregard it on the
              ground of repudiation, unconstitutionally, or for any other reason. But it is not
              repudiation. It is a part of the law and the contract, because it was assented to
              before its adoption, and justice to those who have surrendered their bonds for
              one-half of their debt, as well as to the people of the State, requires that the whole
              act shall be executed according to its letter and spirit.
            His Excellency did not ask that his action and conduct in making this settlement with
              the General Government should be approved by the General Assembly, and that provision
              be made for the adjustment of the internal improvement bonds. The reasons he assigned
              why he did not ask that his action be approved were as singular as his conduct was
              extraordinary. In his message of 1869 he says:
            "It will remain for the General Assembly, in its wisdom, to determine what action, if
              any, shall be taken with reference to these old bonds. I would unhesitatingly
              recommend that provisions be made for their adjustment, but for the apprehension that
              such action on your part might give encouragement to a combined effort which it is
              said will be made, either at the present or some future session of the General
              Assembly, to induce the State to take back the Wabash and Erie Canal and impose upon
              the people of the State that half of the original debt which was extinguished, so far
              as the liability of the State is concerned, by the conveyance of the canal and its
              revenues, and some 800,000 acres of land under the provisions of the 'Butler Bill.' No
              such effort shall receive aid from any official action of mine, and I therefore
              refrain from making any recommendation as to these old internal improvement bonds
              still outstanding."
            His refusal to ask a ratification of his action in the premises was based upon the
              idea that such ratification would give encouragement to an effort to induce the
              General Assembly to take back the Wabash and Erie Canal, and impose a debt upon the
              people of this State which is now resting upon that canal. If the ratification of His
              Excellency's conduct would give that encouragement, does not the action and conduct of
              His Excellency itself give the encouragement? In other words, if legislative approval
              of the payment of some of the internal improvement bonds in a manner other than that
              provided in the funded debt bills, would give encouragement to an effort to induce the
              General Assembly to take back the Wabash and Erie Canal, thereby imposing a debt of
              some fifteen millions of dollars upon and the people of this State, will not the act
              of His Excellency in paying the bonds in a manner other than that provided in the
              funded debt bills furnish like encouragement to that effort? And if it would be wrong
              for the General Assembly to ratify that conduct and make provision for the adjustment
              of the internal improvement bonds, was not the committing of it by His Excellency a
              greater wrong? I fear that the discovery by His Excellency that the payment of the
              internal improvement bonds at their facet with all their accrued interest, will
              furnish encouragement to such a wrongful effort, was made too late. His act of paying
              them has furnished encouragement to that wrongful design and effort and the General
              Assembly should at once counteract the effect of that encouragement by disapproving of
              His Excellency's conduct.
            The message of His Excellency upon this subject is singular in another regard. He
              says:
            "To acknowledge any liability on the part of the State for the payment of any part of
              this canal debt would be to create a new debt for a purpose expressly interdicted by
              the Constitution."
            Again he says:

            

            " If the assumption of this immense burden is to be proposed, let the proposition be
              made to the people themselves, who will have to bear it, by submitting a
              constitutional amendment, upon which they can vote."
          
          
            CONTRADICTORY POSITIONS OF GOVERNOR BAKER.
            He first said there was no power under the Constitution to assume the debt now
              charged upon the canal, and yet he expressed great fear that the General Assembly
              would assume it if he asked a ratification of his action or recommended the adjustment
              of the internal improvement bonds. Has His Excellency so poor an opinion of the
              ability and integrity of a General Assembly, the majority belonging to the political
              party with which he is identified, for such was the General Assembly to whom he
              delivered his message, as to fear that that majority would violate the Constitution
              and fail to keep the oath they had taken? That is a poor opinion, indeed, for the
              Executive to entertain of the members of the General Assembly. And if he believed
              there was no power under the Constitution for the General Assembly to take back the
              Wabash and Erie Canal, why did he recommend the adoption of an amendment to the
              Constitution to prohibit the General Assembly from doing such a thing? His message
              upon this subject is like the productions of the most of men who have committed great
              errors, the consequences of which it is feared will cause great mischief. His
              settlement of the internal improvement bonds was wrong, wholly wrong, and his great
              fear that the General Assembly will take back the Wabash and Erie Canal, and his great
              anxiety for the adoption of a constitutional amendment upon that subject, can not make
              it right. That settlement was in violation of the funded debt bills in this, it does
              not treat all the creditors as equals, and that they would be treated as equals was
              one of the paramount objects sought to be accomplished by the bills. It is unjust to
              the people in this, it compelled them to pay twice as much as they owed, and it
              remains to be seen whether this General Assembly will approve or disapprove of it.
            The last resolution is as follows:
            
              
                
                  Resolved by the Senate, the House of Representatives
                    concurring, That the General Assembly of the State of Indiana should make no
                    provision for the payment of the principal or interest due or to become due on
                    the old internal improvement bonds, except as provided in the acts of 1846-47,
                    commonly known as the "Butler bills."
                
              
            
            I desire to call the attention of the Senate to His Excellency's message delivered to
              this General Assembly. In one particular it is singularly different from the one
              delivered by him two years ago. In the last message he not only recommends the payment
              of the internal improvement bonds at their face, with all their accrued interest, but
              he urges with apparently no little anxiety, that this General Assembly should at once
              provide for their payment in that manner. The reasons stated in his message why the
              State should at once pay the unsurrendered internal improvement bonds are that they
              are a paramount lien on the Wabash and Eric Canal upon which the title of said canal
              may be divested from its present owners, and that good faith requires the State to
              protect the present owners of said canal from having the same sold upon said lien, and
              in case the State should not thus protect the owners ot the canal, but stand by and
              permit the same to be sold from them, that then they would have a strong equitable
              claim against the State for the full amount of the canal bonds, with all their accrued
              interest, which are now charged exclusively upon the canal. His message upon the
              subject is as follows:
            "If these bonds are a lien on the Wabash and Erie Canal, as I belive them to be, the
              State can not afford to permit the title of the Trustees to be divested or their
              possession and control of the canal and its revenues to be interrupted by the judicial
              enforcement of said lien. To prevent this, provision should be made to pay out of the
              Treasury of the State such of said 191 bonds as may be adjudged to be a lien on the
              canal and its revenues whenever it may become necessary to make such payment in order
              to prevent the canal or its revenues from being subjected to the satisfaction of the
              lien. Indeed, independently of this lien altogether, I do not see how the State can
              honorably refuse to redeem these few outstanding internal improvement bonds."
            Again:
            "If the State should stand by and permit the canal or its revenues to be wrested from
              the hands of the Canal Trustees, to satisfy a paramount lien created by the State
              itself prior to the conveyance of the canal to said Trustees, then, indeed, might the
              holders of the canal stocks, with some show of reason, claim that the State should
              redeem the many millions of dollars of the canal stocks which under the existing
              arrangement are exclusively charged upon the canal, and for which the State is in no
              way bound. I hope that you will promptly adopt such measures as will forever prevent
              the possibility of the trust being disturbed or impaired by the enforcement of this
              lien, It is both right and expedient that the State should thus protect the trust
              property; and I also recommend that the State relieve the Board of Canal Trustees from
              all the expenses of litigation to which they have been or may be subjected in
              defending the trust property from the attempt made to subject it to the satisfaction
              of said lien."
          
          
            THE QUESTION OF THE LIABILITY OF THE STATE TO PAY OUTSTANDING
              INTERNAL IMPROVEMENT BONDS.
            I readily concede that if there is any holder of the internal improvement bonds, who
              was not a party to the legislative contract expressed in the funded debt bills of
              1846-47, who was not represented either in person or by his agent in the making of
              that contract, and has never assented to it, that his bond is a lien on the Wabash and
              Eric Canal, upon which it may be sold. But if he agreed to the legislation, he agreed
              to surrender his lien, and the same good faith which requires the State to stand up to
              her agreement requires him to stand up to his.
            But suppose that all of the unsurrendered internal improvement bonds are a lion upon
              the Wabash and Erie Canal, because of their having gone into the hands of innocent
              purchasers, or from any other cause, they being a lien in the first instance, that I
              am mistaken in saying the consent of the holders of them to the passage of the funded
              debt bills extinguished them as liens upon the canal, and that they are worthless
              unless they be surrendered according to the provi- 
              sions of the funded debt bills? The question whether the State is bound to protect the
              owners of the Wabash and Erie Canal against them, or whether the owners of the Wabash
              and Erie Canal are not bound to protect themselves against them, is one worthy of
              consideration. The liability for the payment of these bonds is fixed by the laws under
              which they were issued, and by the funded debt bills of 1846-7. Before the passage of
              the funded debt bills they were all charged upon the internal improvement works, and
              the State guaranteed the sufficiency of the internal improvement works to pay them. By
              the funded debt bills the State was to convey the canal and its lands in absolute
              payment and discharge of one-half of the whole debt. The letter, as well as the
              spirit, of the funded debt bills is that upon the State conveying the Wabash and Erie
              Canal, and its lands, she was to be forever freed from the payment of one-half of the
              whole debt. Such is the plain interpretation of the funded debt bills. His Excellency
              in his message delivered to the General Assembly two years ago, says:
            "The adjustment made under the "Butler bill" was, as between the State and the
              creditors who assented to the arrangement a complete accord and satisfaction. One-half
              of the debt was extinguished and ceased to be a debt against the State, and was
              charged exclusively with the assent of the creditors upon the canal and its
              revenues."
            In his message delivered at the present session he says substantially the same thing.
              In the memorial presented to the General Assembly, in 1857, by our foreign and
              domestic bondholders, this language is used:
            "It is about ten years since an arrangement was effected between the State of Indiana
              and her creditors, under which the Wabash and Erie Canal, with its lands and revenues
              was placed in the hands of trustees, as security for the payment of one-half of the
              State debt."
            This language clearly indicates that the canal and lands were transferred in payment
              of one-half of the debt, and the construction put on the funded debt bills in this
              memorial is conclusive upon all the creditors, because it is the production of the
              joint committee of both the foreign and domestic bondholders.
          
          
            THE CONTRACT BETWEEN THE STATE AND HER CREDITORS.
            It has become a part of the history of the State that one-half of her old internal
              improvement debt was extinguished by the transfer of the Wabash and Erie Canal and its
              lands to her creditors. When the canal and its lands were transferred, there was
              extinguished one-half of the whole debt, so far as the State is concerned, no matter
              whether all the creditors joined in the acceptance of the conveyance or not. Those who
              accepted the conveyance took it subject to the conditions of the legislative contract
              expressed in the funded debt bills, which was that when the State parted with the
              Wabash and Erie Canal and its lands she was to be freed forever from one-half of her
              public debt. Those creditors of the State who surrendered their bonds and accepted the
              deed for the canal and its lands, took the same subject to the then outstanding
              internal improvement bonds, and if the holders of the then outstanding bonds refused
              to surrender them under the funded debt bills, and become parties to the arrangement,
              it was incumbent upon those who had surrendered their bonds and accepted the deeds to
              get in the outstanding bonds as best they could, for the reason that they had accepted
              property from the State upon condition that that property would pay one-half ot the
              whole debt of the State and the outstanding bonds represented a portion of that half
              of the State's indebtedness. That being so, the owners of the Wabash and Erie canal
              are bound to protect themselves against the unsurrendered internal improvement bonds
              which are a lien upon their canal, for the reason that when they took the canal and
              its lands they took them subject to the lien. If the owners of the canal desire to
              extinguish the lien, they must get possession of the bonds and surrender them
              according to the provisions of the funded debt bills. If suit is brought upon any of
              the unsurrendered bonds the owners of the canal must pay them, off either before or
              after judgment, and then have the matter adjusted according to the provisions of the
              funded debt bills. But if the owners of the canal stand by and permit the canal to be
              sold to pay any of the outstanding internal improvement bonds that furnishes them no
              just reason for calling upon the State to pay them for the loss of it.
            The funded debt bills expressly provide that the State will make no provision for the
              payment of the internal improvement bonds other than that provided in the funded debt
              bills. Whether that is valid as to the unsurrendered bonds or not, it clearly is valid
              as to those surrendered, and constitutes a part of the contract between the State and
              the holders of the canal bonds. And if the State voluntarily pays the unsurrendered
              bonds it is a breach of the contract made with those who did surrender, and they would
              not longer be required to submit to it, hence the fear expressed in His Excellency's
              message of two years ago was well founded, that if the bonds were voluntarily paid in
              full by the State it might incur serious consequences. Hence I say the State should
              not make any provision for the payment of any part of her old internal improvement
              bebt. It has already been adjusted, and let it remain as it is.
            Again His Excellency in his last message says:
            "John W. Garrett, Esq., of Baltimore, is repre-represented to be the owner of
              forty-one of these 191 bonds; ten of the forty-one being sterling bonds, and the
              residue being dollar bonds. Mr. Garrett soon after the adjournment of the last special
              session of the General Assembly, as the holder of these forty-one bonds, commenced an
              action in the Circuit Court of Carroll county, in his State, against the Board of
              Trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal, for the purpose of enforcing against said canal
              and its revenues in the hands of said Board of Trustees, a lien on the canal, which he
              insists was created to secure the payment of said bonds by the provisions of the
              General Internal Improvement Act, before mentioned."
            His Excellency insists that this General Assembly shall pay of the bonds, which are
              the subject of the action he refers to, before judgment is rendered upon them.
              "Sufficient  unto the day is the evil thereof." If
              the General Assembly should do such a thing, it would be not only an invitation to the
              court to render judgment upon the bonds, and declare them a lien upon the canal, but
              it would also be an admission on the part of the State that she was bound to protect
              the owners of the canal against the bonds. Such a course of conduct as that would be
              admitting the case away. It would not only be saying to the holders of all the
              unsurrendered internal improvement bonds that these bonds were not liable to the
              provisions of the funded debt bills for their payment, but that they were paramount
              liens upon the canal, and that it was liable to be sold for their payment. It would
              also be saying to the owners of the canal, notwithstanding the canal and lands was
              conveyed to them as a payment of one-half of the whole debt of the State, that the
              State was liable to pay the face of the bond, including all the interest, and was
              bound to protect the owners of the canal against any judgment or decree that may be
              rendered upon them. In other words, notwithstanding the State had conveyed the Wabash
              and Erie Canal and 800,000 acres of land to certain parties in consideration that they
              would pay one-half of the debt of the State, that the State now voluntarily and
              without any consideration releases them from their obligation, and proposes to pay it
              herself. Such a course of conduct as that shall receive no support from me. If the
              State is liable at all let her pay the judgment after it is rendered, not admit away
              in advance the rights she may have in the case.
          
          
            THE CANAL OWNERS MUST PAY LIENS UPON IT.
            His Excellency insists that if the canal is sold away, the owners of it would have a
              strong equitable claim against the State for the many millions of canal bonds. In my
              judgment such is not the case. The canal owners are in possession of the canal, and
              they must protect It against all liens upon it, and their measure of damages, in any
              event, is the amount of money required to do so. And if the canal should be sold, they
              will have no legal or equitable claim against the State for the canal bonds, in any
              possible event, until they had accounted to the State for the 800,000 acres of land
              they got, which is now worth more than their canal bonds.
            His Excellency's position on the proposition that the State should pay the
              unsurrendered internal improvement bonds is, indeed, singular. In his message of two
              years ago he said to do so would give encouragement to a combined effort that would be
              made at that or some other session of the General Assembly to induce the State to take
              back the Wabash and Erie Canal, and for that reason he refused to recommend their
              payment. He, in his last message, says the General Assembly must pay the internal
              improvement bonds, or the holders of the canal bonds will have a strong equitable
              claim against the State for their payment, and will insist upon the State taking back
              the canal. If His Excellency was right two years ago, when he said if the State
              provided for the payment of the outstanding internal improvement bonds it would give
              encouragement to an effort to have the State take back the Wabash and Erie Canal, and
              thereby charge the people with a debt of some $15,000,000, the position he has taken
              in his last message can only be construed to mean that he is in favor of its being
              done I shall occupy no such doubtful position on this subject. No act of mine shall
              give aid or assistance to an effort which, if successful, will bring great injustice
              and disaster to the State. I take my stand with the people of this State, and will
              never consent that they shall ever be made to pay one dollar of the debt which was
              extinguished by the legislative contract of 1846-47.
          
          
            THE EVILS THAT WILL FLOW FROM THE ASSUMPTION OF CANAL BONDS.
            If the funded debt bills are maintained and upheld, and recognized as furnishing the
              only rule by which the remainder of our old internal improvement debt is to be
              adjusted and paid, then there can be no just reason assigned that the State should pay
              the Wabash and Erie Canal bonds, and the General Assembly will not be memoralized and
              importuned to take back the Wabash and Erie Canal. If the funded debt bills are
              maintained and upheld, the prosperity and advancement of our State will not be
              retarded, but it will continue to increase, as it has done since these acts of
              settlement were adopted. Governor Whitcomb, in his annual message for the year 1847,
              says:
            "This debt, large in itself, was increased, at a rapid and fearful rate," and that,
              in view of it, "many of the best citizens, involved in despair, and anxious to leave
              their property unencumbered to their children, were sacrificing their homes for less
              than their value, and leaving the State. The same causes were preventing men from
              coming into it to purchase property, improve the country, and add to our wealth. All
              had a tendency to increase the gloom and despondency which pervaded business affairs
              generally, and to diminish the ability of the people, the great mass of whom were also
              involved in debt, to meet their individual engagements."
            Let us hope that there will be no repetition of that gloom and despondency, and let
              our highest aim and object be to save the people from such a condition of affairs If
              equitable compromises and binding agreements are to be broken, let others break them.
              If public laws are to be disregarded, let others disregard them; but let us maintain
              those compromises and agreements, and respect and uphold the laws, and not violate
              that confidence that an intelligent people for the time being have reposed in us. Far
              be it from me to desire that the State shall come short of paying the full amount of
              her obligations. I will never consent that repudiation shall be written on her banner.
              To do so, would bring dishonor upon her people and reproach upon the memory of her
              citizens who have laid down their lives that the country might live. But an act of
              injustice to the living would be equally disreputable. All that is required in order
              that honor may be secured for the State, happiness for her people and justice for her
              creditors, is a faithful recognition of the compromises, laws, covenants and
              agreements that the State and her creditors have made.
          
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Burson and Kline Contested Election Case--Debate in
          Continuation.
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            THURSDAY, January 5, 1871.
          
          [IN CONTINUATION--PAGE 19--2D.
              COLUMN.]
          Mr. HOOPER Mr. President: I understand the simple question before the Senate to be
            this; Whether a Senator presenting credentials regular upon their face is entitled, in
            the first instance, to be sworn in or not? Upon that, it seems to me, there can be no
            doubt, for it has been a recognized practice, laid down in books of Parliamentary law
            clear and distinct. Cushing's work upon that subject, which we recognize as standard
            authority, lays it down clearly and distinctly that in the first place in the
            organization of a body of Senators who present their credentials, regular upon their
            face, are entitled to be sworn in and for the time being, take their seats, though in
            point of fact not legally entitled to hold their seats, and upon proper presentation of
            the matter they may be ousted. I understand the question to be clearly and distinctly
            settled that where a member presents credentials regular upon their face, he is entitled
            to be sworn in. That is precisely what we have done today, and the Chair is right in
            sustaining that course. This is all I have to say now. I think to go back on that
            decision is to trample under foot a plain recognized law upon the subject.
          Mr. BROWN. Mr. President: It occurs to me the subject matter contained in the bill, is
            not the proper question before the Senate, and I have nothing to say upon that. The
            question now is whether the ruling of the President is right or wrong. The Senator who
            has just taken his seat says that when a Senator comes before the bar of the Senate with
            a certificate, regular upon its face, showing that it is legal in form--that certificate
            makes a prima facie case, and the Senator should then be sworn in.
            That in my judgment, standing alone by itself, independent of anything else, would be
            correct.
          Those certificates the several Senatore presented this morning to whom no objection was
            made were prima facie evidence of valid elections; and that they
            posses the qualifications necessary to entitle them to the privileges of the floor of
            the Senate as members. But that only is a prima facie case and when
            coupled with something else, perhaps the prima facie case is
            sufficiently impeached to justify the President of the Senate in refusing to permit the
            oath of office to be administered to those persons whose prima facie
            claims to some extent have been impeached.
          What is the case before the Senate? The senator fram Delaware, [Mr. Burson,] comes here
            with a sertificate valid upon its face. It conforms to law so far as that is concerned.
            It recites he possesses the necessary qualifications hat he should possess to entitle
            him to privileges as a member of the Senate. But connected with that is an objection of
            a Senator who has the privilege of the Senate and with this objection comes a contest.
            Does not his objection and his word as a Senator, that he will prosecute a  contest which will impeach the authority of the Senator to
            the privileges of the Senate destroy this prima facie evidence to such an extent that it
            should not be considered until the Senate is organized?
          The Senator who has just taken his seat said is was parliamentary that a certificate
            upon its face absolutely obliged the presiding officer to swear the member presenting
            it. With all due deference to the honorable Senator, such is not the case. As the Hon.
            Senator from Monroe, [Mr. Hughes,] stated a few minutes ago Representative after
            Representative, and some Senators in Congress have come with certificates, in due form
            of law, stating the validity of their elections and that they possess all the
            qualifications necessary, yet the objection of a sitting member, coupled with the
            statement that he would show cause why the member presenting himself, is not entitled to
            the privileges of the floor, has been repeatedly held a sufficient cause to destroy the
              prima facie evidence, and send him to the bottom of the list to wait
            until the body itself determines his case, and not the presiding officer. That is the
            question now. Was the President of the Senate right in permitting the Senator from
            Delaware, [Mr. Burson,] to be sworn in, whose certificate was attacked, or ought he not
            to suspend that question, to be determined by the Senate?
          It occurs me, no matter what were the rules years ago; it is a well settled practice in
            this country, and the safer and better course would have been for the body itself to
            have determined that question, and for this reason, the paramount duty and object of
            members of a legislative body, is to represent their constituency. The constituency of
            every senator has a right to be represented upon every imaginable question here. The
            President has no constituency--he represents nobody as a Senator--and whether the
            Senator from Delaware, [Mr. Burson,] had prima facie evidence or not,
            the people had the right to be represented, and not, with all due deference to the
            Chair, be ignored by the Chair.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. Mr. President: We have a mode of prosecuting contests in this body laid
            down in the Statutes; and there is no pretensions made here, that this proceeding
            conforms with it. There has been no notice served upon the Senator, whose seat is
            contested, and the only grounds now upon which this action is based--the only precedent
            cited--is the action of the two houses of Congress, where members presenting their
            credentials are compelled to wait the action of the body. Those cases are not at all in
            point. When the Senator's [Mr. Burson's] credentials were presented there was no
            Senate--we had no Senate--there was no Senate to decide upon a motion. There was no
            quorum here. There was probably only twenty members in their seats. The others were not
            sworn in and no motion could be entertained by the Chair, it matters not what the
            character of that motion was, until there was an organization effected. If there was no
            other grounds in this case, except the decision of the Chair, no motion could be
            entertained until Senators were sworn in in a sufficient number to constitute a Senate.
            Then the decision of the Chair is right and should be sustained. But suppose it is
            maintained that there is a precedent; I will ask gentlemen, where that precedent is in
            the history of the Legislation of Indiana? Not one instance can be found where there was
            a contest, but the parties holding a regular certificate had been sworn in.
          Probably in one hundred cases has there been contests raised in the State of Indiana,
            but never to my knowledge, has there been a case made, but there was a house, when a
            motion was made to reject the credentials of a member. If gentlemen have such a
            precedent, I should like to see it. They say the action of Congress is a precedent. It
            is no such thing. In Congress there is a Senate and there is a House. They may receive
            or reject. They are a legislature, but we have no such thing here. There were only
            twenty members present and one rises from his place and protests against a member
            receiving the oath. A Senator may do it--an outsider may do it. I don't insist that it
            is necessary that the Senate should organize by the election of officers, but Senators
            must be sworn in, in order to constitute a constitutional quorum. This motion being made
            when there was no Senate, the Chair did right and I think gentlemen will find great
            difficulty in saying the Chair didn't do right in deciding that there was no contest.
            There was nothing but a simple protest. And there is no precedent for any such thing. If
            there is a majority in the Senate who wish to reject after the Senate is organized, and
            expel a member after he is sworn in, I suppose by a revolutionary power, that may be
            done. But when credentials are presented, and they are regular, no protest by a member
            or an outsider can prevent his being sworn in.
          Mr. HUGHES. I am glad to see a disposition manifested to return to what is supposed to
            be constitutional law. The argument that has just be made very conclusively proves that
            a half dozen Senators or a dozen Senators, in the absence of others outside the bar who
            hold certificates of election, are not competent to do any legislative act. I found at
            the last session of the Senate, in the fore part of this book, (THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
            REPORTS,) running through several pages, that the presiding officer of this body held
            that doctrine--that a minority were only competent to adjourn from day to day, and
            compel the attendance of absentees--but I found toward the close of the book, that some
            progress was made upon that  question, and that it
            was ascertained that there was no such thing as a minority of the State Legislature: and
            that while a majority stood outside the bar with certificates, those inside had the
            right to transact legislative business of the highest moment--to change the constitution
            of the State. So much by way of comment upon the consistency which claims protection of
            law in one breath when it suits the purposes of party, and rejects it in another when it
            is deemed necessary to tear down the Constitution of the country.
          With the permission of the Senate, I will suggest that it is undoubtedly parliamentary
            law that the person holding a certificate of election is prima facie
            entitled to be sworn in; but where objection is made, that person should stand aside
            until the body is organized which, under the constitution, has the right to decide the
            question of eligibility. There are Senators now upon the threshhold of Congress, elected
            from States, and objections being made, their credentials were referred in this manner,
            and they have been waiting there three or four years. I refer to the case of the State
            of Georgia. It is a matter of every day occurrence in Congress that where objection is
            made to a member being sworn in the presiding officer or Clerk of the House of
            Representatives waives the matter until those to whom there is no objection may be sworn
            in. I suggest that those gentlemen to whom there were no objection be sworn in first and
            take their seats. Then the Senate will be duly organized, and can be put in posession of
            the facts in this case. If the chair decides it now, it will only be anticipating the
            question three or four minutes' time.
          But sir, as to the question before the Senate. A Senator presents to this body a
            certificate of election, and it is true, as the Senator from Marion [Mr. Martindale,]
            has said, there is no Senate here. That is a sound conservative and constitutional
            position, but it did not serve the purpose to protect the people of this country from
            negro sufferage when it was invoked.
          There was no Senate here, then sir, what were your functions? What were you presiding
            over? Your right to decide this question resulted from your being a presiding officer.
            If there was no Senate there was no presiding officer, because there was no Senate. Then
            what were your duties? Simply clerical duties. You had no power, sir, to decide this
            question. Your power was in abeyance as Lieutenant Governor, and restricted simply to
            organizing the body. When a Senator presents his certificate, as a matter of course, in
            the exercise of clerical duties, if you find it in due form you administer the oath. But
            a Senator rises in his place and advises the chair--not then being the presiding officer
            of the Senate, because there was no Senate, as the gentleman from Marion says, but
            simply a medium for the purposes of an organization--a Senator informs the chair that he
            objects to the swearing of a Senator, because there is another paper here which he
            desires to present to the body, which destroys the prima facie case.
            And when one moment of time--one moment of time--would have been sufficient for the now
            presiding officer, but the then Clerk, to have brought the Senate into existence, which,
            under the Constitution, has the exclusive right to decide as to the eligibility of the
            gentleman presenting the certificate, it would have been but fair to the body--it would
            have been but courteous to the Senate for him to stand by the old, sure conservative
            principle which avoids the assumption of doubtful power. But the chair--then Clerk--in
            the exercise of his best judgment, no doubt, decided to swear in a Senator, put him in
            his seat to hold it perhaps during the session or the greater part of it, with full
            notice that he was charged with an act, which, under the constitution, renders him
            ineligible to a seat in this body.
          Something has been said about no regular notice of contest being served. This is a
            peculiar case. The petition is signed by the opposing candidate, a member of the same
            party with the Senator sworn in. These contested elections are generally decided under
            the influences of party, but this contestor is a member of the same party as the
            gentleman sworn in, and the petition is also signed by a number of prominent citizens of
            both political parties, and the charge is bribery. Any voter has the right to petition
            this body, and inform it that a party who presents prima facie
            evidence is disqualified under the constitution by offering bribes to influence voters,
            and that is charged in this memorial.
          This is a very grave question, and whatever the law and usage has been heretofore, I
            regard it that the Senate would be setting a very poor precedent to allow the presiding
            officer to exercise the power of sitting a member here to hold his seat, and thus
            suspend the power of the Senate. As he proposes to exercise the powers of the Senate, it
            is a bad precedent. He seats a member here to represent two counties of the State, when
            one minute later the Senate could have decided the question itself. It is said that we
            have no precedent. I am not sure that it is correct, but it makes little difference; now
            is the time to make a precedent.
          Mr. MARTINDALE (interposing.) With the Senator's permission, I desire simply to ask
            this question. Taking the ground adopted by the Senator, that it was the duty of the
            Chair to refuse to swear a person under these circumstances, suppose the same objection
            should be made to twenty others? If it is the duty of the Chair to withhold the oath how
            would he ef-  fect an organization of the Senate?
            You never can create a quorum.
          Mr. HUGHES. Whenever that case arises it will be time enough to discuss it, I take it
            for granted that the case will hardly ever arise where so many persons will be objected
            to in good faith; and should the number be objected to and the objections be made in
            good faith I hold that delicacy and properity on the part of the officer organizing the
            body, would induce him to postpone the cases until members not objected to be sworn in,
            and then, after organizing the Senate, the question could be properly brought before the
            body. The Senate could have been organized in one moment, yet the Senator [Mr. Burson]
            was sworn in by the mere act of the presiding officer of the Senate.
          I am not in favor of keeping a man standing outside of the bar with certificates in his
            hands, week aftey week, while some person not entitled to represent his constituency has
            a seat on this floor. I would regret very much to suspend the right of the Senator to
            his seat one moment if his title is clear. On the other hand, I would equally regret
            having his constituency represented by an unauthorized agent. It operates in two
            ways.
          I beg leave to call the attention of the Senate to the fact that the merits of the
            contest is not now before the Senate. The question is the naked proposition: Shall the
            presiding officer, when objection is made, swear in a Senator upon a certificate of
            election? Shall he exercise the power to swear him in when a Senator gives notice of
            objection in good faith, and sends up a petition of voters interested, remonstrating
            against it?
          I say if the Chair has that power--the constitutional power of the Senate to exercise
            supreme control over the question of the fights of members to their seats, is a mere
            farce.
          If there is no precedent, this is a good time to make precedent. Let the Senate assert
            its rights and sustain this appeal, and claim the right to settle this question for
            itself. A little forbearance and a little patience on the part of the presiding officer
            would have avoided this controversy.
          I presume the presiding officer acted conscientiously, believing that to be his duty.
            But a little consideration and courtesy upon the part of the gentleman claiming the seat
            would have relieved the Senate and the presiding officer both.
          There was a time in the history of this country, when a gentleman presenting a
            certificate of election to this body, being advised that his constituency charged him
            with bribery, and desired a hearing on that question before the Senate itself, which
            hearing could have been had in ten minutes;here has been a time when it would have taken
            a long search to have found the man who would have insisted upon taking his seat.
          In those times, most men placed in these circumstances would have said: "Mr. President,
            I will not embarass the Chair nor the Senate and I waive presenting my credentials
            now."
          I would have stepped aside, and presented my credentials after the Senate was
            organized. But the Senator from Delaware, if a Senator, slips in a seat through the
            necessity of an organization, supported by the assumption of the presiding officer. He
            makes himself a necessity. We are to have no Senate without the Senator from Delaware. I
            hope the appeal was properly taken, and that it will be sustained by the action of the
            Senate, but the oath has been administered, and the question now before the Senate is,
            whether, after the oath has been administered over an objection, and an appeal taken and
            failed, this body has lost its jurisdiction over the case? I say not. We ought to set a
            precedent now and maintain the rights of the Senate. We ought to determine what should
            be done when an appeal was made. By sustaining the appeal the Senator has all his
            rights, to present his credentials in open session and have the Senate decide whether he
            has a right to a seat here. If the appeal is not sustained, we have set a very
            revolutionary and dangerous precedent, and that is that the presiding officer of this
            body can make a Senate and upon prima facie evidence can decide who
            can sit here.
          Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. President: I rise for the purpose of correcting the Senator from
            Marion [Mr. Martindale.] We have precedents. There is a similar case to this. I have in
            my hand the Journal of 1857, of the House of Representatives which contains a case, and
            it is this: Leonidas Sexton of the county of Rush, came up to be sworn in. I will read
            the motion that was made then. "Upon the county of Rush being called, Mr. Humphreys
            objected to administering the oath of office to Mr. Leonidas Sexton, claiming a seat
            from said county. Pending the discussion of which, on motion by Mr. Davis of Sullivan,
            the House proceeded to the election of Speaker by a viva voce vote." So the matter was
            passed without swearing in Mr. Sexton. That is a case precisely in point to this;
            perhaps not quite so strong, for I do not recollect whether there were any papers
            presented. But objection was made and he was not admitted. Some days after Mr. Whitcomb
            offered the following resolution:
          
            
              
                RESOLVED, That Lenoidas Sexton be forthwith sworn in as a
                  member of this House from the county of Rush, and that he retain his seat upon
                  this floor as such member, until this House shall decide by vote, that said Sexton
                  is not entitled to said seat as Representative from said county.
              
            
          
          Upon that resolution the vote resulted yeas 43, nays 52, so it was not agreed to.
            Several  days latter to the time when the first
            proposition was made, Mr. Gordon offered the following:
          
            
              
                RESOLVED, That Leonidas Sexton, having produced to this House
                  the certificate of the Board of canvassers showing that he was duly elected by a
                  majority of the voters or Rush county, at the October election, 1856, to a seat in
                  the House of Representatives of the current session of the General Assembly of the
                  State of Indiana, which certificate is properly authenticated and shown to be
                  genuine, by the certificate of the clerk of the Rush Circuit Court, and attested
                  by the proper signature of said Clerk, and seal of said Court, be now sworn in and
                  admitted to his seat as a member of this House.
              
            
          
          Mr. Studebaker moved to lay that resolution on the table, and this motion was agreed to
            by yeas 58, nays 37. Among those voting in the majority was John W. Davis, who had a
            great deal of legislative experience, having been a Speaker of the House of
            Representatives in Congress. The Senator from Marion, [Mr Martindale,] will at least
            admit that here is some authority.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. Mr. President: The precedent the Senator has brought forward is no
            precedent in the case.
          Mr. JOHNSTON. I call the Senator to order. He has spoken once already.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The point of order is not well taken for the Senate has
            adopted no rules as yet.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. As I was saying, the Senator has brought forward no precedent for our
            guidance in the case before the Senate. In that case there was a House and a motion was
            made to a Honse, and the record shows a quorum voting in each case. If there is a point
            in it, it is this: That the Chair cannot sustain a motion until there is a Senate, and
            there is no Senate until a quorum is sworn in. The gentleman's precedent falls short in
            the point I make. I admit that when there is a Senate gentlemen may reject any member
            whether there is a contest or not. But the precedent cited does not apply in this case
            because there was a quorum and the vote so shows. When the motion was made here there
            was no one to sustain a motion, or vote for a motion, and how could the Chair sustain
            it? And I maintain that the Chair cannot sustain an appeal and should utterly ignore an
            appeal from a decision made when there was no organization.
          Mr. JOHNSTON, by leave, offered a resolution, which was adopted, concerning rules and
            orders--see page 20.
          Mr. SCOTT. I want to make an inquiry: Whether any depositions have been taken in this
            case within the notice of the Chair?
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Chair only knows of what has been read at the desk and the
            statement of the Senator [Mr. Burson] that no notice of contest has been served upon
            him.
          Mr. SCOTT. I want to inquire further--whether those papers came from the Secretary of
            State or from some other quarter?
          Mr. HENDERSON. These papers were filed, as I understand it, in the clerks offices of
            Delaware and Madison counties, and the testimony, depositions and evidence are all ready
            to go to a Committee.
          Mr. SCOTT. Of course all these questions have really nothing to do with the matter as
            presented. There is but one simple question, as I understand it, presented here, and
            that is whether the Chair was correct in its ruling. It is rather a novel preceding at
            best. Never since I have been a member of any deliberative body, has any such question
            been presented, nor am I familiar with any such question. I presume there are such
            questions but I have not had time to look them up.
          I am governed in my action and expect to be governed in my vote by the simple
            proposition of common sense. I like to be governed by that when I can, and I think I
            have it in this case: and I think the Chair was right in its ruling upon this simple
            ground. It is ground, I am sure, sustained by parliamentary law as well as common sense.
            I understand the Senator from Delaware [Mr. Burson] presented credentials in regular
            form, properly certified, and showing himself entitled to a seat here. There was no
            question made of the correctness of that certificate by any man on this floor; had there
            been, there might have been a different decision by the Chair; but the presumption of
            law and everything else is certificate was regular, as no one has made any objection to
            it.
          Here is the certificate of a man elected a Senator in the regular constituted form,
            showing that he is entitled to represent the county he comes from, and now I say without
            any precedent or some law in the case it would be a very high-handed proceeding upon the
            part of the Chair to say to him "Stand aside, sir." Why should he do it? I don't know; I
            cannot say. Gentlemen refer to cases in Congress and they take them for precedents for
            us. I do not propose, sir, to deprive a county of this State from its proper
            representation here by any such precedent. I presume all these cases referred to, come
            from a quarter where every thing is in doubt and in uncertainty, and; there is prima facie reason for objection in their cases. But no such condition
            of affairs pertain: to Indiana. I take it that when the Chair acts from the certificate
            of an officer, under the seal of that officer, he has done about as near right as any
            body can do until he is informed of something to the contrary from more than one or two
            individuals.
          Now sir, I should dislike very much if my county were to be prevented from
            representation by simply the request of any one or two men; or by a Senator upon this
            floor stating that "I object to Vigo county being repre-  sented on this floor, for I have got something back here
            which I desire to present." Sir, if the senator is not entitled to a seat on this floor
            there is a regular course pointed out by law, by which the Senate may relieve itself of
            him.
          [Here a message was received from the House of Representatives announcing the
            organization of that body.]
          Mr. SCOTT (resuming.) Now, sir, if we are setting a precedent, I say this is the safer
            course, in fact the only safe course because it is the only way pointed out by the
            statute; the other rests upon doubtful precedents. When we are following the statute we
            are tolerably correct.
          Mr. HUGHES. The question is whether or not, there being objection, the Presiding
            officer of the Senate shall decide?
          Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President: The same objection occurs to me that occurs to the Senator
            from Marion [Mr. Martindale.] If Senators desire, or should they object to a sufficient
            number, we could never have a Senate. But a gentleman here says, perhaps that state of
            things may never arise. In reply, I will say, stranger things arise on this floor. But
            the Senate has all the privilege it can ask for in the way pointed out by law for the
            settlement of such questions--appoint a committee of investigation, hear the evidence
            and then reject the Senator, if proper; but to take him upon trust with the certificate
            of the proper officers and the voice of a majority of the people of his district
            declaring him to be their representative, in opposition to the objection of any man or
            any number of men, in my judgment is the safer course; and as a precedent I prefer that
            because I think it is safer.
          Mr. HADLEY. Mr. President: The Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] has seen proper to
            criticise the action of the Presiding officer of this body in this matter. Now, sir, if
            I understand the manner of organizing the Senate of Indiana, the Senator from Monroe
            certainly must be mistaken. The Constitution of the State provides that the Lieutenant
            Governor, by virtue of his office shall be a part of the Senate--just as much a part of
            the Senate as any member representing a constituency in it. It defines what the duties
            of the Lieutenant Governor are, in connection with the Senate; and his duties attach
            immediately upon his election. Then we have the Constitution providing when this body
            shall assemble, and it makes it the duty of the Lieutenant Governor to take the Chair,
            and call the Senate to order, and to call for Senators bearing credentials to be sworn
            in. These duties the Lieutenant Governor has performed to-day. He has called the Senate
            to order: The roll call shows that but twenty Senators occupied seats and that is less
            than a quorum. Then the Senators elected were called upon and presented their
            credentials: The Lieutenant Governor has no authority to go beyond those
            credentials.
          The law provides the manner in which a gentleman may be admitted upon this floor as a
            Senator. The provision is that he shall present credentials in a certain form, and that
            form has been complied with by the Senator from Madison [Mr. Burson.] It is true, here
            comes a protest, but it comes before this Senate is organized, and it comes in no
            authorized shape. There is no precedent, and no provision in the Constitution or
            statutes, allowing a paper to come in, in this shape. The proceding is entirely
            irregular.
          The Senator from Monroe, [Mr. Hughes,] speaks about good faith. How was this Senate to
            know whether this protest is made in good faith or not. Probably there is not a
            signature to that document that is known upon this floor by a majority of the Senate,
            and how do we know but this is gotten up to subserve party purposes and not in good
            faith? It is just as safe for us to presume that it is not in good faith as that it is,
            coming from the source and at the moment it does.
          There is a remedy provided by the contestor in this case. If he is a legal
            representative from that district, there will be an opportunity offered to satisfy this
            body that he is, and when that is done he will be admitted to a seat. The fact whether
            this protest is made in good faith or in bad faith may be determined by a committee, and
            that is the way this thing should go.
          The Senator from Monroe speaks of a precedent, and says this is a good opportunity to
            make one. He also, in the same connection speaks of revolution. It occurs to my mind if
            revolution is the precedent the Senator wishes to establish, this is a good beginning
            for it is very clear to every Senator that if this precedent is established and adhered
            to by subsequent Senates, that a few mischievious men in each Senatorial district in
            this State may at all times prevent an organization of the Senate if they so desire to
            subserve a certain interest. If we are not to inquire into this protest, but act upon it
            and allow it to prevent a Senator from being sworn in, then I ask this Senate, what is
            there to prevent any mischievious men who desire revolution from preventing an
            organization for all time to come. We see the dilemma we put ourselves in. Will we put a
            construction upon the Constitution that will be suicidal?
          The Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughe] has seen proper to charge this side of the House
            with inconsistency--that when it subserves our purposes we take the position that a less
            number than thirty-four Senators are a quorum to do business. I do not understand it in
            the same way, and I say the charge is unwarranted by the facts. What were the facts?
            When the Senate opened at the special  session,
            Senators stood outside of the bar with credentials in their hands and resolutely and
            zealously refused to come in and qualify. They prevented a quorum by their own wrong;
            and it was impossible for us to proceed with legislation. Here were men elected to the
            Senate and nothing to prevent their coming in, but they refused to do it. But what are
            the facts to-day? Here is a Senator who presents his credentials in good faith and in a
            regular manner. I say the same facts do not exist at all, and the action we take to-day
            is not inconsistent with any former action.
          Mr. BROWN demanded the previous question and the demand being sustained by twen-six
            Senators--
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR stated the question to be, Shall the decision of the Chair
            stand as the judgment of the House?
          Mr. HUGHES. I rise to a point of order and ask that the 17th rule be read.
          The Secretary read as follows:
          "17. No Senator shall vote on any question in the event of which the record shows he is
            immediately and particularly interested," etc.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Idon't see anything in that rule by which the Senator is
            precluded from voting. Call the roll.
          The Senate refused to sustain the decision of the chair by yeas 23, nays 25--as
            follows:
          
            
              
                YEAS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Burson, Caven.
                  Collett, Elliott, Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard,
                  Martindale, Miller, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wage and Wood--23.
                NAYS--Messrs. Alsop, Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown,
                  Carnahan, Case, Denbo, Dittemore Dougherty, Francisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg,
                  Henderson, Hughes, Johnston, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan, Rosebrugh, Saringhausen,
                  Stroud and Williams--25.
              
            
          
          So the decision of the Chair was not sustained.
          Mr. HENDERSON offered the following resolution.
          
            
              
                RESOLVED, That the memorial of the citizens of the counties of
                  Madison and Delaware, concerning the right of John W. Burson to a seat in this
                  body, with accompanying papers, and the credential of said John W. Burson, be
                  referred to a select committe of five, to be appointed by the Senate, with power
                  to send for persons and papers.
              
            
          
          Mr. MARTINDALE moved to lay the resolution on the table.
          The yeas and nays being demanded and ordered--
          Mr. HUGHES said: I give notice that I object to the Senator from Delaware [Mr. Burson]
            being called because by a decision of the Senate he is not a member of the body. I make
            the point of order to the chair.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I do not understand that the Senator from Delaware is not a
            member of this body, and until the Senate shall so decide the chair will request the
            Secretary to call the roll of the Senate.
          Mr. BROWN. I will ask the chair if it is the opinion of the Senate that the decision of
            the Chair was wrong does it not necessarily imply that there was an error in the
            swearing?
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. It places the Chair in an uncomfortable position and dilemma
            and it is due to the Chair that the Senate determine the question without doubt whether
            they mean to say the Senator [Mr. Burson] has no right upon this floor. It might be
            inferred but is not a necessary inference, from the action of the Senate, and if that is
            the purpose of the Senate it will relieve the Chair for the Senate to say so.
          Mr. HUGHES. I ask what construction the Chair puts upon the vote just taken? What is
            the effect of the vote of the Senate? I think the Chair will say that the decision of
            the Senate is that he [Mr. Burson] is still unsworn. I raise the point of order and I
            object to his name being called as a Senator, or his voting until he is sworn in by
            permission of the Senate.
          Mr. GRAY. Mr. President: I understand the position of the Chair upon the question was
            that there being no Senate, and the Senator from Delaware [Mr. Burson] presenting his
            credentials, the Chair had no right to refuse his demand to be sworn in, and having been
            sworn in he is as much a Senator as any Senator on this floor. If the Senate desires to
            exclude the Senator from Delaware they should go at it in a square manner.
          Now during the regular session two years ago a Republican Senator's seat was contested.
            I then, as I always expect to, under such circumstances, rose above anything like party
            preferences. I never have seen the time, and I hope to God I never may, when the
            question of a Senator's eligibility to a seat is brought up, that I will allow party to
            control my vote upon a question of that kind.
          Now I do not see fit to make a speech upon this question of appeal because I consider
            that it don't amount to anything. Even if the Senate refused to sustain the decision of
            the Chair it still leaves the Senator from Delaware in his seat; and because the Senate
            refuses the Senator the right of voting, in my opinion it amounts to nothing. If the
            opposite side of the chamber think the Senator from Delaware has no right here and has
            no right to vote, they ought to expel him. If he has been improperly elected, the law
            plainly and clearly points out the manner in which that election shall be decided, and
            Senators ought to be willing to be governed by the law. Let a Committee be appointed and
            evidence taken, and if the matters set forth in that evidence show the protest to be
            true let the Senator be compelled to give up his seat and a new election held. I think
            that is right and proper; it is parliamentary law; it is the statute. Any other
            proceeding is simply revolutionary and con-  trary
            to all precedentall parliamantary law and the statute.
          Mr. HUGHES. I merely rose to the point of order to see if the Chair will again overrule
            it, if so we can take another vote. I contend that if the Senate decided he [Mr. Burson]
            is irregularly sworn in, that he is not sworn at all. The case is in the possession of
            the Senate. I contend that he cannot vote until the Senate allow him to be sworn in.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I understand the position of the Senator from Monroe [Mr.
            Hughes.] He rises to a point of order that the name of the Senator from Delaware [Mr.
            Burson] may not be called until further action of the Senate. The chair will overrule
            that point of order and the decision of that question as a matter of course will decide
            the question.
          Mr. BROWN. I appeal from that decision.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Yes sir.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. I rise to a point of order. The motion before the Senator is my motion
            to lay the resolution of the Senator from Morgan [Mr. Henderson] on the table, and it
            seems to me this proceeding is irregular.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. On that question the Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] raises
            the point of order that the name of the Senator from Madison [Mr. Burson] shall not be
            called, I think the proceeding is correct.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. Suppose the appeal is sustained; we may proceed in that way all day.
            They can collaterally attack the Senator's vote on every opportunity. Gentlemen say let
            him be sworn in by permission of the Senate. He has been sworn in and he is as much a
            Senator as gentlemen here and has as much right to vote as any gentleman. I may move
            that a gentleman's vote be excluded, but I contend the motion cannot be sustained. We
            have a statute ruling contests and after a Sentor has been sworn in he can only be
            removed according to the rules of that statute. If this can be done by the majority, the
            majority may exclude any member of the minority of the Senate. The object is in this
            colateral way to have the Chair make a decision, from that appeal, and then hold again
            that the Senator is not entitled to vote a continual round of colateral motions that
            still does not deprive the Senator from Delaware of his vote. He has the right to vote
            unless he is expelled from the Senate, and if they refase him the right to vote they may
            refuse any other Senator on this floor.
          Mr. BROWN. I will send up my appeal. It is poorly written.
          The LIEUTENANT GONERNOR. Read it yourself.
          Mr. BROWN read as follows:
          We having objected to the name of John W. Burson being called, and the President of the
            Senate having decided that John W. Burson has been properly sworn in, and is entitled to
            a vote, we appeal from the decision of the President to the judgment of the Senate.
          [Signed] BROWN, HUGHES.
          Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President: We are not deciding whether he [Mr, Borson] is entitled to
            a seat or not. I was not present but I understand the Chair did swear him in, that there
            was an appeal, that the appeal was sustained, and hence I conclude that Mr. Burson has
            not been sworn in at all. We can't expel him until he gets in. We can't expel him
            because he is not in. If the sustaining of that appeal meant anything it meant that the
            judgment of the Chair was wrong in swearing him in, hence he is not sworn in. The
            President of the Senate cannot decide upon the qualifications and elections of members.
            The Senate must do that. The Senate has decided that he has presented no proper
            qualifications, hence he has no right to vote until he gets in by a vote of the
            Senate.
          Mr. HENDERSON demanded the previous question and the Senate seconded his demand.
          The Senate refused again to sustain the decision of the Chair by yeas 23, nays 25the
            same vote as on page 399.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The decision of the Chair is not sustained, and the question
            recurs on the motion to lay on the table the resolution of the Senator from Morgan [Mr.
            Henderson.]
          The Senate refused to lay the resolution on the table by--yeas 21, nays 26.
          The resolution was adopted by--yeas 26, nays 21.
          The Senate then preceded to the election of Secretaries and Doorkeeper:--see page
            20.
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Burson and Kline Contested Election Case-Debate in
          Continuation.
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            TUESDAY, January 10, 1871.
          
          
            [IN CONTINUATION--PAGE 58.]
          
          After the minority report of the Committee to select the standing Committees of the
            Senate was read--
          Mr. BRADLEY said: Mr. President: I suppose the first question to be on concurrence in
            the majority report. Am I not right in that?
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I think so.
          Mr. BRADLEY. Then I move the previous question.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. I rise to a point of order. I think that just the reverse is the
            rule.
          Mr. BRADLEY. If I am wrong I will move that the minority report lie on the table.
          On this motion the yeas and nays were demanded, ordered and being taken, when--
          Mr. HADLEY moved that the name of the Senator from Delaware [Mr. Burson] be called.
          Mr. HUGHES and Mr. BROWN rose to a point of order. The call has been commenced and is
            pending, and no motion is in order. Besides it is a question already decided by the
            Senate, and the only proper way to reach it is to move a reconsideration of the decision
            of the Senate on the original vote; and that motion cannot be interposed now.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Chair rules that the point of order is not well taken. In
            the first place it is usual to suggest or move that the name of a Senator omitted be
            called before the result of the vote is announced, and in the second place, on the other
            point raised by the Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes,] the motion of the Senator from
            Monroe to which he refers, applied simply to the roll call pending before the Senate for
            its consideration. The Chair will overrule the point of order.
          Mr. HUGHES. Mr. President, I desire to say to Senators who desire to recognize Mr.
            Burson as the Senator from Delaware, and desire that he should have a seat on this
            floor, that this exercise of their judgment, though they may think it is the proper, may
            not be the most speedy way to accomplish their object. If they think so they will be apt
            to find themselves mistaken. I feel very certain that there is no disposition to delay
            the Senator from Delaware in the exercise of any of his rights.
          But in reference to the question immediately before the Senate, the Chair has stated
            that the decision of the Senate, was that the name of Mr. Burson should not be called
            upon that particular roll call. I understood the objection to be an objection to the
            Clerk calling his name upon any roll call. But waive that, that decision was only made
            as an interpretation by the Senate of an official action of the Senate--or a final
            discussion, that the Senate deemed Mr. Burson irregularly sworn in and not a member of
            the body. The Chair undertakes to say, notwithstanding that decision, interpreted by the
            Senate by request of the Chair, that this question is liable to haunt us at every step
            of legislation, and upon every roll call.
          By the action of this Senate that subject has been sent to the jurisdiction of a select
            committee. Sir, it is out of your power to bring a question before this Senate which has
            been referred to a Committee which is in their keeping. It is unusual and unprecedented,
               and I say that the whole question of the rights
            of the Senator, or the so-called Senator, from Delaware, is now in the hands of the
            select committee by an order of this body, and yet here is an attempt made upon a
            collateral question to bring it again before the Senate.
          I appeal from this decision, sir. It is not carrying out the vote of the Senate by
            which it was decided that Mr. Burson was not sworn in regularly, and until he is sworn
            in regularly he is not a member of the body.
          In reference to the remarks of the Chair that when a Senator's name has been omitted a
            motion may be made that his name be called, he must be a Senator before the question can
            be raised, and he cannot be a Senator until he has been sworn in and recognized by the
            body.
          There is nothing but red tape in this matter, and a simple attempt to assert the rights
            of an organizing officer over the constitutional rights of a body to decide as to the
            eligibility of its members.
          The body exercised its powers of discretion in this matter and decided that Mr. Burson
            was irregularly sworn and is not a member of the body, and therefore is no Senator. The
            Chair afterwards permitted his name to be called, and an appeal was taken at the
            instance of the Chair to have the body itself construe its own decision, and it
            construed that decision contrary to the decision of the Chair. Now the Chair says the
            question may be raised upon any roll call and after the body has consigned ths matter to
            the care and jurisdiction of a commiteee. If that is to be the rule in this body, it
            will induce great confusion in business here, and all standing committees and all select
            committees of the body that have bills and resolutions and other business referred to
            them, will find themselves liable to be ousted in their jurisdiction at any moment, by
            the springing of this question at every roll-call.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. Mr. President: If the minority had consulted the wishes of the Senator
            from the counties of Delaware and Madison [Mr. Burson] they would have sat still and
            allowed no minority report to be made, and thus tacitly consented to the position
            assumed by the majority that Mr. Burson is not a member of this body. It is not,
            however, in the province of any Senator to determine what action may be taken in
            relation to his own case. Any Senator on this floor has the right to demand that the
            name of John W. Burson be called as a Senator, and the right to demand that he vote on
            all questions except when excused from voting.
          Now, Sir, this question is one that the gentlemen have placed themselves in, and it is
            one they have to relieve themselves from. It is no part of my province to do it. While
            the Senate was being organized, and before there was a Senate here--before there was a
            quorum of Senators who had taken the oath, a protest was made against swearing the
            Senator from Delaware and Madison. If the Chair, as on a former occasion, that was cited
            by the Senator from Knox, [Mr. Williams,] had held that the Senator should not have been
            sworn, that would have suspended his rights as a Senator for the time being. But the
            Lieutenant Governor acting in the capacity of Lieutenant Governor, not as President of
            the Senate until a Senate was here, the Lieutenant Governor, whose duty it is made to
            organize this body, held that a Senator was before him with credentials that were
            examined and found to be in form of law, and that no protest from a Senator or from
            citizens would justify him in refusing to swear the Senator.
          I will put the question to the Senator from Monroe, [Mr. Hughes.] Suppose the Lieut.
            Governor held that the protest was sufficient and would not swear him, and the second,
            third, &c., until he had refused to swear a sufficient number to put us below a
            quorum in this body, sir, when could we organize this body? The Senator says he will
            wait for such a case to arise. That is begging the question. That is not meeting the
            argument. Here are twenty outsiders who say that the Senate shall not be organized, each
            one comes in with a protest against an equal number of Senators elect, and, according to
            the argument made here, it is the duty of the Lieutenant Governor to refuse to swear
            them in. Then the wheels of organization will be clogged, and it never can be perfected.
            They say such a contingency may never arise. That does not answer the purpose. Such a
            contingency may, and will arise whenever it is desired for the purposes of preventing
            the organization of the body.
          Now a Senator elect was before us, his credentials were regular and you held it your
            duty to swear him in, and when sworn in, who ever heard of such a proceeding; after an
            oath had been administered regularly by a party entitled to administer it, to say it was
            not an oath; and therefore the Senator is not sworn in? I submit there is no law
            requiring a Senator to come before this bar, and no law requiring the Lieutenant
            Governor to swear himit is but a custom. Mr. Burson might have gone before a Justice of
            the Peace or a Notary Public and taken the oath, and that moment he was a member. The
            law makes the term of a Senator to begin the day following his election.
          The Senator from Delaware holds a certificate of election, and comes before the bar of
            the Senate and a Judge of the Supreme Court administers the oath. Now what do gentlemen
            propose? Why they say he is not a Senator for sooth. Why? Because a protest was pending
            when the oath was administered to him? Why, sir, the doctrine is perposterous  in the extreme. The oath is administered according
            to law under a certificate required by law. He was regularly sworn in, and is a Senator,
            and being a Senator how will we reach him? By an appeal? An appeal from whom? Not the
            President of the Senate. It is not insisted that it was an appeal from the President of
            the Senate but the Lieutenant Governor, therefore an appeal should not have been
            sustained at all. There was no decision of the President, of the Senate from which an
            appeal could be taken; but the Chair saw proper, out of countesy to the majority to
            recognize the appeal, and put the question. Now the appeal is what? That the decision of
            the Chair in swearing the Senator is not the opinion of the Senate; but is the Senator
            from Delaware and Madison any the less sworn? The oath is administered, it is upon our
            Journals, therefore I maintain he is a Senator and nothing but the mode prescribed by
            the Constitution and laws will oust him.
          The Senator from Monroe may make a motion that he shall not vote on roll call, but
            suppose the Senator makes a motion that the Senator from Morgan, or the Senator from
            Knox, or one of the Senators from Marion shall not vote on the roll call, and the
            majority say they shall not, would it deprive them of the right to rise in their seats
            and demand the right to vote every time the roll was called? They are Senators with
            certain rights as Senators. A motion that he shall not vote I maintain is one that
            should not be entertained by a presiding officer.
          What, disqualify a Senator without the form of law! The Constitution reads that it
            requires two-thirds of the Senators elected to expel a member. Is there any other
            authority except the one of law in relation to contests? There is notice required to be
            given within a certain length of time and the filing of papers with the Secretary of
            State, and the transmission of those papers on the second day of the session to the
            Senate. Do gentlemen pretend any such steps have been taken in this case? Not at all. It
            is by mere force of power--by force of the majority in the face of that article of the
            Constitution and this law in relation to the contests of seats, that these gentlemen
            propose to deprive a Senator of his seat and vote upon this floor.
          I am not here as an advocate for the Senator from Delaware. I am here as a Senator,
            with the rights of a Senator, to demand that the Senator vote. In order that the people
            of his counties may have their rights it is due that he should vote. The gentleman says
            it is irregular now because this question has been referred to a Committee. Is there not
            a precedent in every deliberative body--in Congress itself, and particularly after he
            has been sworn in? Is there a day in the year when members are not voting after the
            question as to their eligibility has been referred to a committee? But that does not
            deprive a member of his rights until after the Committee make a report and there is a
            decision upon the report.
          I regret to see that this question has become so near a party question. I apprehend
            there has been no revolutionary measures proposed here on the part of the minority that
            would justify this remarkable course. I think it well for Senators to examine this
            question and see what a precedent they are about to set. The question is whether under
            the Constitution, the law and precedents the Senator from Delaware is a Senator entitled
            to vote here. I concede the fact that he was sworn under protest but that protest does
            not wipe out the oath. The oath is there, the certificate is there, and if gentlemen can
            get behind them it is for them to do it.
          Mr. BROWN. Mr. President: I will not imitate the example of the Senator who has just
            taken his seat in making a speech on what is not before the Senate, but I shall endeavor
            to say what I have to say on the matter directly in controversy. The first question is,
            What is the question at issue? What is involved in the question is, whether the opinion
            of the Chair is right or wrong, it don't run back to time immemorable, as the
            distinguished Senator has been pleased to carry it in order to discover something not
            before the Senate, and I presume never will be before the Senate; the question is
            whether Mr. Burson's right to cast a vote in this Senate has not been decided against
            him by the Senate, and if it has there is no power in the presiding officer to
            arbitrarily overrule the judgment of the Senate on that question. That is all in the
            point before the Senate. It does not matter whether the decision of the Senate was right
            or wrong upon the question whether Mr. Burson had the right to vote. Even if it was
            wrong, the President of the Senate is not warranted in overruling the judgment of the
            Senate upon it, and ordering the senator to cast a vote.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. Will the Senator allow me to ask him a question?
          Mr. BROWN. No sir.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Senator from Jackson refuses to yield and is entitled to
            the floor.
          Mr. BROWN. The first question decided when the case of Mr. Burson was under
            investigation was that the oath which had been administered to him was improperly
            administered. The Senate so decided. The presiding officer first held otherwise but his
            decision was reversed by the body. What is the effect of an oath improperly
            admisistered? It is no oath at all. Therefore all the clamor made here by the Senator
            from Marion [Mr. Martindale] about Mr. Burson being sworn is  outside the case, because the judgment of the Senate is that
            the oath was improperly administered; illegally administered; and being improperly and
            illegally administered it is no oath at all, and does not bring him within the bar of
            the Senate entitled to any of the privileges of a Senator upon this floor. If a party
            states a falsehood upon an oath illegally administered, perjury cannot be assigned upon
            it; and who will pretend to say that John W. Burson is to-day legally sworn into this
            body, when this body has decided that the oath the Presiding Officer directed to be
            administered to him was unauthorized, illegal and without authority?
          And no matter whether the opinion of the chair or the body was right, the body is the
            superior power to determine the question between the Chair and the body, and the Chair
            must yield to it, and when determined it is a violation of the rights and privileges of
            the Chair, with all respect for the Chair, to undertake to overrule it again. So much
            for the first question of contest between the Chair and the body. The Chair has once
            undertaken to overrule the judgment of the Senate on the question whether Mr. Burson is
            entitled to the privileges of a Senator. No sooner had the judgment of the Senate been
            pronounced against the opinion of the Chair than the Chair directed Mr. Burson's name to
            be called and he be allowed to vote. That was a violation of the rights and privileges
            of the Chair in my judgment. That conduct of the Chair in my judgment, cannot be
            defended by law or reason. An appeal was taken from that decision, as the record shows,
            and again this body told the Chair that it had not the power nor the right to decide
            this question. So on the question whether Mr. Burson is entitled to vote of not there
            has been two judgments overruling the opinion of the Chair, and yet we find Senators
            attempting to enforce the opinion of the Chair in opposition to the judgment of the
            Senate--when twice the opinion of the Chair has been overruled and pronounced against by
            this body. That is all there is involved in this question. This body has decided that
            Mr. Burton is not a Senator so far.
          When the Senator fom Morgan [Mr. Henderson] rose and made objection to the Senator
            being sworn in, he did not say that a contest was pending against the Senator and for
            that reason and that alone, he objected, because in case of a contest, which goes merely
            to the form or validity of the election, perhaps the party may be sworn in, the
            objection was not that he had been illegally returned as the Senator from the district
            from which he comes, but the objection was that by a course of conduct illegal and
            reprehensible he had deprived Himself from being permitted to enjoy the rights and
            privileges of a senator upon this floor.
          But, Mr. President, when you place a man in this Senate, who by the Constitution and
            the laws is deprived of the privilege of being a senator, no matter how many people may
            desire it, it is working a wrong to the constituents of every other member for the
            reason that it places a man in the body who had the power to determine public questions,
            who is forbid from determining them because of his own illegal and immoral conduct.
            Whether the charges are true or not, at this stage of the case, of course I give no
            opinion. It was not that the election was not duly held according to law, but that John
            W. Burson had committed felony, and because having committed felony he should not be
            allowed the privileges of a senator. That was the quection raised against him and that
            is the petition sent up here against him. If so it made no difference if he received
            every vote of his district, that would not allow him to be sworn in as a member of this
            senate.
          I now come to another question. The Chair has already decided as I remember well, and
            certainly the Chair will not overrule the decision it has already made;the Chair does
            not fail to remember that it has already directed the clerk not to call the name of Mr.
            John W. Burson. Having so directed it, why did he so direct it? Simply because the
            judgment of the Senate overruled the opinion of the Chair; and the Chair cannot now
            order Mr. Burson sworn in. Is there no such a thing as the judgment of the Senate being
            conclusive upon the opinion of the Presiding officer? If there is not, then destroy,
            take away, tear out of the statute book and the rules of this body all right of appeal
            from the Chair to the body, and let the power of the Chair be absolute in this Senate,
            and we will not be blundering and stumbling over this matter any longer. If the rules of
            this body provide for an appeal from the decision of the Chair of this body, it means
            something, and it means this: that when the decision of the Chair to once overruled it
            is conclusive. As the distinguished senator from Monroe has said, the only way for a
            party to do who has had an opinion of the body determined against him, is to have the
            body undo what the body has done, and not call upon the Presiding office to do what he
            has no right or power to do.
          What I have said upon this subject, Mr, President, has been said in language perhaps a
            little strong. What I have said of course, was said without a desire to impeach the
            motives of the Chair or to impeach Mr. Burson who comes here asking to be admitted and
            sworn in. Far be it from me to assume that there is anything improper in his
            motives.
          I will state, in justice to Mr. Burson, that he does not desire the conduct Senators on
            the  other side are practicing. It is to his honor
            and credit, and it is a pleasure to me to be able to stand in my place and say that he
            washes his hands clear of this extraordinary, unusual, revolutionary and illegal piece
            of conduct these Senators over the way are attempting to enforce and practice in the
            Senate.
          Mr. MARTINDADE. Are you authorized to make such a statement?
          Mr. BROWN. I am, sir, I am. Are you satisfied?
          Mr. STEELE. Mr. President: It was not my intention to take any part in this discussion,
            nor would I if I thought, indeed, that the senator from Delaware [Mr. Burson] did not
            desire to cast a vote here. It may be that gentlemen on the other side know more about
            what Mr. Burson desires than I do. I think it is due though, to the citizens of the
            counties of Delaware and Madison, if Mr. Burson has a seat here and is entitled to vote,
            indeed, that his name should be called and that he should be required to vote unless
            excused from voting.
          Now, in order to go back to the foundation or beginning of the objection that has been
            made, I shall have to refer to the argument of gentlemen the other day; and I will take
            no stronger position against them than they have taken against themselves. Indeed, when
            the senator from Delaware presented his credentials and it was proposed that he should
            be sworn as a senator, objection was made that there was a memorial, perhaps, in the
            hands of some gentleman here, and certain reasons might or would be given in the future
            why the senator should not be sworn. But at the time that memorial was not filed, it was
            not before the senate for consideration at all. Hence as far as what may have been said
            against Mr. Burson, might have been as well said against any senator who presented
            credentials to this body.
          There might have been gentlemen found in this body who would have objected to every
            member of a certain party in order to prevent their being sworn in. A B and C might have
            arisen and stated to the senate that there was a memorial, perhaps, in their hands
            against some other senator than the senator from Delaware, and so on through the whole
            list. I submit the question whether statements of this kind as to other senators should
            deprive them of their right to be sworn in? If it did, indeed sir, it would place us in
            this position, that the eighteen or twenty senators holding over would have it in their
            power to keep this House from organizing from the commencement to the end of this
            session. If the senator from Delaware could not be sworn in with that objection to him
            then the same objection would hold good as to every other senator who presented his
            credentials.
          And it is also in the position taken by gentlemen that in the organization of this
            House the President was not acting as President of the Senate, but as a mere clerk of
            the body, and doing that which a mere clerk might have done. I submit to the
            consideration of the Senate, again, if there was an appeal that could be taken, whether
            they could take an appeal from the decision of what they termed a mere clerk here? I
            hold they could not. If the certificate of election was duly authenticated, I submit to
            the consideration of the Senate whether they could deprive a senator from having the
            oath of office administered to him? I think they could not. Then I the take the ground
            if gentlemen are correct in position they take that the President was acting as a mere
            clerk whatever that clerk may say one way or the other had nothing to do with the
            question at all. They might as well appeal from what the doorkeer may have done; and I
            hold the whole action stands upon that foundation. They have no right to say to the
            senator from Delaware that he shall have no rights simply because they appeal from the
            action of a mere clerk ot the body. If the Chair had no authority to decide I ask for
            the law that allows them to take an appeal from the action of that clerk.
          But again, if they had no appeal from the action of the clerk at the time--if the
            Senate was not organized--if there were not thirty-four senators then present to act in
            the premises, I submit to the consideration of this body whether an appeal taken then
            could reach back to what they term the action of a mere clerk? It is not contended that
            the oath has not been administered by the proper officer, that the credentials of the
            member was wrong in any particular, but it is conceded that it is all right. Then I
            appeal to the records of this body to determine whether the senator from Delaware has
            been sworn in as a member of this body. Can they destroy the record and say the senator
            has no right here? I submit this for the consideration of the Senate.
          Mr. HADLEY. Mr. President: I made the motion to have the name of John W. Burson called,
            without consulting his wishes in regard to the matter, believing that his constituency
            have the right to be represented here, whether it is his pleasure or not. If it is not
            his pleasure it is evidently his duty as their senator to vote on all questions, when
            his name is called. The position taken by the senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown] as I
            comprehend it, is that inasmuch as this Senate has expressed its voice, its pleasure or
            feeling as to the legality or propriety of swearing in the senator from Delaware, it
            cannot afterward be abrogated or annulled. I understand when any act is done without
            legal authority it is null and void in itself and it needs no undoing, and when we make
            it appear that the action in this matter was without precedent and  without authority of law, that soon the action of this body
            becomes null and void without any further action at all.
          The senator from Grant [Mr. Steele] clearly presented this matter in regard to the
            illegality of this proceeding. I might carry it out further. Suppose the Lieutenant
            Goverernor was absent at the assembling of this body, then it becomes the duty of the
            secretary of the former session to call the Senate to order, and when the names of
            senators holding over are called he then calls those that are elect. Now it is
            preposterous to think you could appeal from a decision of that clerk and the appeal be
            entertained by the Lieutenant Governor when he comes in after the senate has become
            organised.
          But following out the idea of the senator from Marion [Mr. Martindale] a little
            further, As soon as a senator is elected, or the next day after, he may go before any
            officer authorized to administer an oath and be sworn in, and had the senator from
            Delaware been sworn in prior to the assembling of this body could any senator say he had
            no right to vote?
          I have a little authority which I desire to read to the senate; not that I hope to
            change the votes of the majority on this floor, but simply to show how little Mr.
            Jefferson knew of parliamentary law. He says: "The privilege of arrest" &c,, &c.
            [Mr. H. reads from Jefferson's manual.] He says further: "ln Parliament a member is
            privileged" &c., &c.
          Now if Mr. Jeffeson knew anything about parliamentary law the proceedings of this
            senate in this case are null and void and need no undoing.
          Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. President, I had not intended to say anything on this subject, but
            looking over the proceedings on this floor, I find on two pages this senate refused to
            concur in the opinion of the Chair, or in other words overruled the decision of the
            Chair. It is not necessary I should read both of them but the last one sir, is to govern
            this body, I will read the appeal taken by the senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] and the
            senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown] and the vote upon that sir. [Mr. Williams read--see
            pages 399 and 400.
          I will read a rule now which governs this senate. [He read rule 29see pages 406 and 407
            of vol. XI BREVIER REPORTS.] Now if senators
            desire to come at that and have any further action upon it they must do it by a motion
            to reconsider the vote taken on the fifth day of January. I cannot conceive how they can
            reach it in any other way.
          Mr. HUGHES. Mr. President: Has the senate decided that the senator [Mr. Burson] was
            irregularly sworn in? Every senator upon this floor knows it has. The record says so.
            The senate has the undoubted right to decide that question and from whence does it
            derive that right? From the statute or from Jefferson's manual? No, sir, it comes from a
            higher source. It comes from the constitution of the state "each house when assembled"
            &c., &c., [Mr. H. reads.] So it appears the constitution of this State invests
            this body with the right to decide the qualification election and return of members. Is
            that an exclusive jurisdiction sir, or is it concurrent jurisdiction shared in common
            with some Justice of the Peace? I apprehend no argument is necessary to satisfy this
            body it is an exclusive jurisdiction, and gentlemen must be hard pressed--hard pressed
            indeed, when they announce the novel doctrine upon this floor that gentlemen holding
            certificates of election to this senate can go and qualify before a Justice of the
            Peace. The argument would be a fit one to make before a Justice of the Peace, sir, but
            not before this body. This is refreshing sir, it is not revolutionary. It does not rise
            to that dignity; but it's refreshing.
          The senator from Marion [Mr. Martindale] said, and the senator from Hendricks [Mr.
            Hadley] said, that a Justice of the Peace could have sworn Mr. Burson and we could not
            have helped ourselves--he would have been a senator now. I presume the senator from
            Hendricks got that idea when serving as Chairman of the Committee on Millitary
              Affairs [laughter] last session. He never obtained it from any law book nor
            the usage of any legislative body, nor from the Constitution of the State. The honor of
            discovering it, however, belongs to the senator from Marion; indeed I believe he is
            entitled to the prior use of the invention and an action for infringement of the patent
            would be sustained by any court against the senator from Hendricks, the senator from
            Marion being the original discoverer of the idea.
          The Senate has decided this question twice has decided that Mr. Burson has not been
            regularly sworn in. Suppose it decided wrong; the whole bearing of the discussion by
            those senators who advocated the right of Mr. Burson to be called now is an attempt to
            pass over the decision of this body, which alone has the constitutional right to decide
            this question, and they discuss the very question which this body has decided. Are we to
            standby the decision of the Senate or not? Are they a law to the body or not? If they
            are, then the point of order was well taken. And I think the Chair would perceive on
            reflection that the last appeal was leveled at the right of the senator to vote in this
            body and not confined to that particular roll call. Some things then have been decided
            and have been decided by the only tribunal that has the right to decide them--the Senate
            itself. Whether right or wrong it is immaterial to discuss. It was discussed before and
            I have nothing to add to what was said on that occasion.

          

          But the senator from Hendricks [Mr. Hadley] says the action of the Senate was null and
            void. Is that so? Has the Constitution not conferred upon the Senate unlimited power
            over this question? Who shall question the light of the Senate in the exercise of this
            power? Who questions it now? The same Presiding Officer who stands convicted by the
            judgment of the Senate, of haivng decided erroneously in this case? Is that to be
            tolerated in this body? Is that right? Are gentlemen who are the political friends of
            Mr. Burson and who desire him to take his seat prepared now, sir, to vote that the
            decision of this Senate is not binding upon its own members? Are gentlemen who are of
            the legal profession, who sit on the other side of the House prepared now to leap over
            the decision of the Senate and go back to the decision of what the senator from Grant
            [Mr. Steele] designated as a mere clerk, and perhaps reverse the decision of the Senate
            without moving a reconsideration, and without appealing to the body? I apprehend they
            are hardly willing with all their anxiety to seat their political friend on this floor,
            to take that step. I apprehend there is too much intelligence and too much political
            integrity among republican senators upon this floor to put themselves upon the record in
            any such position. If I were their enemy, as I am not, I would be glad to see them do
            so. But I hope they will not. I trust they will not undertake to inaugurate any such
            unparliamentary proceeding in this body.
          How can the action of a court which has unlimited jurisdiction over a subject matter,
            with no rules to bind it except it's own, ever render a judgment that is null and void?
            Can the senator from Hendricks show how it is that the Constitutional power of this body
            to be the exclusive judge of these questions can be exercised--how any judgment the body
            may render in such case can be null and void? When Courts render judgments that are null
            and void it is hardly necessary to say to the gentleman that they transcend their
            jurisdiction. They must have jurisdiction circumscribed and limited by some law or
            Constitutional provision, but there is no law, there is no Constitutional provision
            whatever that interferes with the unbounded discretion of this Senate, to decide upon
            the election, qualification and return of its members, and I utterly repudiate the
            doctrine that any officer outside or inside of this body can take away from this Senate
            this right, and the Senate exercised it and there stands its decision.
          Now, Mr. President, I ask you this question: Where now are the credentials of John W.
            Burson? Are they in his keeping? No, sir. Are they in yours? No, sir. Are they in the
            keeping of the gentleman who made the motion that his name be called upon this question?
            No, sir. Are they in the custody of this body? No, sir. They have been consigned by this
            body, by the express language of a resolution raising a select Committee to inquire into
            the question, into the hands of a select committee and for the present there they rest,
            and there alone; and no right arising upon those credentials can be determined here
            until we call those credentials back from that committee and bring them before this
            body. How will this question come before the Senate when we have delivered it over to
            the keeping of a committee? The committee has the subject matter in their keeping until
            the body relieves them of it.
          They say the senator--as they choose to call him--has rights. So has this body rights;
            and unfortunately for the senator, the Constitution says, the body shall be judge in
            this case and the senator shall not be judge in this case. The body having taken his
            credentials arid disposed of them, they are not subject matter for consideration until
            they come back to the body through the forms of parliamentary law.
          It is not my purpose, sir, to go back and discuss the original question that was raised
            in the preliminary stage of this proceeding as has been done by senators on the other
            side. That is not necessary. The senator from Marion [Mr. Martindale] stated only a part
            of my position and therein to a certain extent, not intentionally of course,
            misrepresented me. He said I conceded he laid down the law correctly, when he said there
            was no Senate here, and in the next breath that there was no Presiding Officer if there
            was no Senate here,-- that the Presiding Officer was a mere clerk. That is conceded by
            the senator from Grant Sir, if it was the decision of a clerk, it was no decision at all
            for the Senate afterward to act upon. He admits and so does the senator from Grant,
            enough of the argument to suit their purposes, leaving out the rest. But, sir, I do not
            think upon any single occasion, when this question comes before the Senate and senators
            persist in ignoring the position of the Senate itself and go behind and discuss and
            maintain the position of the Presiding Officer; upon no such occasion ought senators to
            be permitted to escape from the record made in this body by the same Presiding Officer.
            I desire to speak with all courtesy and respect, for I desire to refrain from anything
            that looks like reflecting upon the Presiding Officer on any other matter that has been
            before the senate unless it comes up directly for action. It is true the Chair decided
            at the opening of the special session this way: A resolution having been offered as
            follows:
          
            
              
                RESOLVED, That the Governor be notified that no Senator from
                  any district where special elections have been ordered, has appeared to qualify as
                  a member of this body on a call of the districts.  [PAGE 18 BREVIER
                    LEGISLATIVE REPORTS. Volume XI]
              
            
          
          That was a resolution pertaining to the organization of the body, but it was ruled out
            of order by the Presiding Officer, on the ground there was no Senate because there was
            not two-thirds present. The discussion runs through one or two pages, and the Presiding
            Officer said conclusively upon that subject on page 21 of the BREVIER REPORTS, that "a
            smaller number may do certain things--meet from day to day and compel the attendance of
            absent members, that is what we can do, and the only thing we can do." The Chair laid
            down the law correctly, and it has been the recognized doctrine since the Constitution
            of this State was formed. Why, sir, the regular session of this legislature broke up
            over this very question, as applied to the right of this body to vote on the
            ratification of the XVth amendment.
          Having stated what I conceive to be the law and the constitution and what I contended
            for upon the question of ratifying the XVth amendment when the regular session was
            broken up, I must refer to a rule of the Presiding Officer which may be an answer to the
            argument made on the other side. Here on page 224 of same book the question arose as to
            whether there was a sufficent number of senators present to ratify an amendment to the
            Constitution of the United States. I apprehend Mr. President that is of quite as great
            moment and of as much importance as a question affecting the right of a gentleman to
            represent the counties of Delaware and Madisson on this floor. Here was a proposition to
            ratify a proposed amendment to the Constitution of the United States a solemn
            legeslative act, the same propostion upon which the legislature had disbanded for want
            of a quorum;--because at that time the new light had not broken in upon us that less
            than two-thirds could constitute a quorum for legislative business--but upon that
            occasion we find the Lieutenant Governor ruled that twenty-seven persons voting "Aye"
            and one "No," making twenty-eight was a Senate. That seems to be the effect of the
            decision. It is true a number of senators who had resigned appeared upon the floor and
            were counted upon the special plea that the Chair had no official notice that they had
            ceased to be members of the body. These gentlemen upon this floor, the printed
            proceedings here show, informed the Chair and the body that they had ceased to be
            members of it, and here openly and in the light of day renounced their connection with
            it and if that is not official notice I hardly know what is. And be it noted furthermore
            that while they were being counted in the act of protesting against being counted, this
            same man who insisted upon counting them for the purpose of making a quorum, called them
            to order upon the ground that they were not members of the body, and that is the record
            here. Oh! consistency thou art a jewel!
          In the other end of the capital we find the question sprung upon them, the doors locked
            and every person counted who ever pretended to be a member, and yet there was not the
            Constitutional quorum, but the ruling of the Chair on that occasion was that there was a
            sufficient number to ratify an amendment to the Constitution of the United States! Will
            gentlemen go back and say there was no Senate here? I might say it--all those who
            dissent from this extraordinary proceeding might say it, but will gentlemen who insist
            on jumping over the solemn decision of this body and going back to the decision of the
            Presiding Officer, as a starting point in this discussion--will gentlemen who say to-day
            that the XVth amendment is an intregal portion of the Constitution of the United States
            and duly ratified by the legislature of Indiana--will gentlemen who went into the
            canvass of 1868, upon a platform pledging the people that no attempt to force negro
            suffrage shall be made; and who entered upon the canvass of 1870, upon a platform
            rejoicing in the adoption of the XVth amendment--will those gentlemen come here and add
            another to their many inconsistencies, and ignore the latest parliamentary proceeding in
            this body and the other branch of the legislature?
          Will they still maintain there is no Senate here to which the question of the right of
            Mr. Burson to be sworn in could be brought? It was brought here, sir, but they say it
            was all irregular. If it was irregular to make objec-jection it was irregular to
            administer the oath. But the objection was renewed when the Senate was organized and
            where were these gentlemen then that they failed to make the point of order then that
            the appeal could not be entertained because it was taken from the decision of a clerk?
            Where were those doctors in parliamentary law? The Chair entertained the appeal, it was
            argued by some gentlemen, and there was no question about the right of the body drawn
            directly from the Constitution, but the decision was against it, therefore we learn
            through the outside journals of information that they would not come into the Senate any
            more, that they were about following the odius Democratic precedent of breaking up a
            legislature because they lacked one or two votes of a majority here.
          Now, Mr. President, why has this afternoon been consumed upon an attempt to connect
            with the formation of the standing Committees of this body, the contested election case
            from the counties of Madison and Delaware? I conceive that the majority report is out of
            order because it proposes no legislative action on the matter under consideration. It
            says that the Committees are not properly consti- 
            tuted, in general terms, without specifying, except that a gentleman whose name is
            excluded from the roll of senators and whose credentials have been referred to a
            Committee, was not included upon any of the Commitees. Why, sir, the question of his
            being on the Committees is entirely secondary to his being a member of the body and
            cannot be decided until the other questions are decided. They undertake in making a
            minority report here to revive the contested election casein making a minority report
            upon the subject of the standing Committees of this body. They undertake to ignore the
            Senate--ignore its action and bring up the question of this contested election. There is
            nothing partizan in that! Not at all! And a senator rises in his place upon this floor
            and declares that he is authorized to say that these gentlemen are volunteers in this
            business and speak without the authority of Mr. Burson. That fact they admit and say
            that whether he has authorized it or not, the rights of a senator are sacred, and they
            have the privilege and it is their duty to bring the question up. The rights of a
            Senator are sacred--that is true, and the rights of the Senate are equally sacred; but
            sacred as may be the rights of the Senate or the rights of a Senator sworn or unsworn,
            the rights of the whole people of the State are of paramount importance. They have said
            in the Constitution they adopted with singular unanimity that no man is eligible to a
            seat in this body who comes here tainted with bribery they say every such person shall
            be disqualified from holding office during the term for which he has been elected who
            has given or offered a bribe, threat or reward to procure his election: They say it in
            their Constitution which is their supreme law and ours.
          This contest, it has been said comes not from an opposing candidate. If it had it would
            be no party contest because he was a member of the same political party with the
            gentleman who claims the right to sit here now. The truth is, as these papers will show,
            that it comes from this same people whose rights are paramount to the rights of senators
            and to the rights of Senates. It comes endorsed by respectable citizens of those two
            counties of both political parties making specific charges that the gentleman holding
            the certificate of election is ineligible because he has disqualified himself by acts of
            bribery and corruption which are specifically stated.
          This is a very grave question, sir, and we read the history of the past few years and
            see how often, until it has become parliamentary law of the land, and an established
            usage that men presenting certificates of election in the Congress of the United States,
            and not coming from States in insurrection, but States which have not been in
            insurrection, when they present their credentials, a single suggestion of disloyalty has
            been sufficient to hang up their credentials for months, and even resulted in their
            being denied admission to the body altogether. I refer particulaly to the case of Mr.
            Young from the State of Kentucky, who came to the House of Representatives one or two
            Congresses past, with an undoubted majority of one or two thousand votes over Mr. McKee
            who contested his election. When he presented his credentials a single suggestion that
            he was a disloyal man was sufficient to refer his case to a Committee who kept him out
            for months and finally excluded him altogether on that ground.
          But, sir, is disloyalty to the Constitution by sympathizing with armed rebellion any
            higher crime than disloyalty to the Constitution of the State which forbids a man who
            proposes to be a candidate to represent the people, from purchasing his way into the
            body by bribery and corruption? A candidate; yes, sir, from the word Candidatus, clothed
            in white, from the old custom requiring every person aspiring to office in the gift of
            the people to put on a white robe indicating purity and to stand up in the market places
            of Rome and show that he was without spot or blemish. A man sent here with a certificate
            of election in his hands is met by his neighbors, protesting that he is unclean--tainted
            with bribery; and all that was urged was that the Presiding Officer would wait one
            minute--until the body was organized to take cognizance of the question.
          Now, sir, I say in conclusion as I stated before that we are fighting now for a
            principle and for uniformity, and for precedents, and for law and parliamentary usage;
            and it is not beneficial to Mr. Burson to raise this question in his behalf voluntarily
            in this form. I say there is no obstacle in the way of a speedy and rapid investigation
            of his case. It is with this body who put it into the hands of its chosen Committee
            which is ready to hear the testimony and will soon report upon the merits of the
            controversy.
          But I must comment on one remark which fell from the Senator from Marion [Mr.
            Martindale,] and that was that it is not competent for persons claiming a seat in the
            Senate to decide upon their own rights. It would have been well to have whispered that
            in the ear of Mr. Burson when he twice voted in his own case over objections. The rule
            of this body declares that "no Senator shall be compelled to vote on any question in the
            event of which he is immediately interested:" all other laws say he shall have no right
            to vote. He must have been compelled to vote--I cannot rid myself of the belief that if
            left to his own unbiased, judgment he would have felt the great indelicacy of such an
            act was too much to commit for a seat in this body:--he must have been compelled by the
            over zealous persons who take his case out of his hands notwithstanding  a Senator has risen and says he is authorized to say it is
            done without his consent.
          Mr. HOOPER. Mr. President: This discussion has taken so wide a range and so many
            matters have been brought up, that while I thought I would not say one word, now I think
            it my duty to present my views to this Senate. The first question I desire to refer to,
            which Senators say is not legitimately in the case, is the action of this body in the
            first instance upon this question. Now I think the first question we really ought to
            determine, to have a legitimate decision of the question now before us, is whether the
            Senator from Delaware [Mr. Burson] has been sworn in as a member of this Senate or
            not?
          We are told by Senators over the way that such is not the fact. They say he was
            irregularly sworn in, therefore not sworn in at all. The truth is, in order to maintain
            their position with any kind of consistency they must take that stand. But now, I
            submit, that when they take that position they take it an direct contradiction to the
            record of this Senate, which I apprehend they cannot go behind. The highest judicial
            tribunal of the State refuses to go behind the journals of the House. What does the
            journal of this House show upon this question? It recites this: [Mr. H. reads from the
            Secretary's journal, the proceedings beginning with "Senators elect" on page 17 and
            ending with the first column, page 18--this book.]
          There is the fact recited by the journals of this Senate that the Senator from this
            district [Delaware and Madison] appeared, presented his credentials and was sworn in by
            Judge Downey of the Supreme Court. If then he was legitimately sworn in I apprehend
            there is no way he can be deprived of a vote in this body except some mode recognized by
            the law of the land. Is it to be granted for one moment that a Senator who has been
            properly sworn in as a member of the Senate can be deprived of a vote by a mere majority
            of this body? When he becomes a member he can only be expelled by the mode pointed out
            in the Constitution and the law of the land. I concede that the Constitution provides
            that each House shall judge of the election, qualification and returns of its members:
            but the Constitution also provides how you may expel a member and deprive him of a seat
            on this floor. It is by a two-thirds vote. If you refuse to permit a Senator to vote in
            this body it amounts to an expulsion,it amounts to that: and I submit that you can only
            do it in the mode pointed out by the Constitution. So much for that.
          Now let us go back for a moment to the original action of this Senate upon this
            question. When this question was first brought up it was before the Senate was
            organized. We then appeared here as a body of men with credentials certifying us as
            members of this body, except those holding over--the number of which was not sufficient
            to constitute a quorum. Who is to determine the question, if any be raised, as to
            whether any one is entitled to be sworn in or not? I submit if it is to be decided at
            all by any body, and if the question could be raised at all, it should be decided by a
            majority of those about whose credentials there was no question. You will find that to
            be the law in the case. But the distinguished Senators on the other side, with all their
            skill in the management of this question failed to present it for the action of those
            thus situated, A simple protest was made, a simple objection by a Senator--a mere
            statement--an objection only, to one of these gentlemen being sworn.
          How was it decided? Why, the President was then in the Chair, but not then President of
            the Senate, for it is conceded on all hands that there was no Senate over which he could
            preside. He was a mere clerk as they said. But what did he do? Instead of presenting
            that question to the men about whope credentials there was no question, they presented
            it to the clerk, and he decided that Mr. Burson was entitled to be sworn in and he so
            held. This mere clerk so held, and thereupon Mr. Burson was sworn in as your journals
            recite. Then what did they do? They simply appealed from the decision of this clerk, as
            though he was something they could appeal from; instead of then and there presenting the
            question and having it determined by the body of men entitled to decide upon it: and Mr.
            Burson was sworn in. They simply rested upon making a protest.
          If that question had been presented to a majority of the men here with credentials in
            their hands, about whose credentials there was no controversy--and if a majority of
            these men had decided that John W. Burson was not entitled to be sworn in, I should have
            respected that decision, and so I think would every member of this Senate. But I submit
            that no such question was put. They did not put themselves in any such position and Mr.
            Burson was sworn in as your journals recite.
          Then the question thus stands before us: Here is a Senator who has been regularly sworn
            in, and is as much a member of this body as I am, or any other member of this Senate,
            and objection is made to his voting upon a particular question, and a mere majority
            decides that he is not entitled to vote, Such a decision has no authority and carries no
            force with it because not supported by the law or the Constitution. This is
            substantially all I desire to say.
          I had no knowledge that this question was to be brought before the Senate. If I had
            been consulted upon it I should have advised against it. But it occurs to me that the
            ma-  jority is so well settled in its views that
            discussion is almost useless. They have determined what course is to be pursued and they
            have the power to pursue it.
          From the fact this discussion has taken so wide a range I wish to allude to another
            thing. With all respect to the Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] I wish to allude to that
            part of the proceedings of the special session of 1869 which he has seen proper two or
            three times to bring before this body. I am not here as an advocate of the President but
            of the action of that body. Now what are the facts on that! question? Is it true that
            the Senate of 1869 as a body went back upon the doctrine that it takes thirty-four
            members to make a quorum, or is it true that the Presiding Officer ever ignored it as a
            rule? I do not understand that he did. I understand that the President uniformly held
            from the beginning of the regular session to the close of the special session that it
            requires two-thirds of the members of this bedy to do business.
          How was it on the day the Constitutional amendment was brought up? I remember without
            reference to the BREVIER REPORTS. I remember as if
            it were only yesterday. I remember that I offered the amendment myself, and I did it
            when the roll call showed thirty-four Senators answering to their names, and there was a
            legal Constitutional quorum here when we proceeded to take a vote upon it. It is said
            that official information was received that Senators had resigned in a sufficient number
            to break a quorum. I submit that the Senator is mistaken. The only information received
            was the statement made by Senator Cravens, that he had seen presented to the Governor
            the resignations of a certain number of Senators but not enough to break a quorum. It
            left over thirty-four Senators, or thirty-four at least.
          Mr. HUGHES (interposing.) Will the Senator yield a moment? [Holding in his hand an open
            copy of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS of the last session.]
          Mr. HOOPER. I will not. If the Senator will hand me the report I will refer to it
            myself.
          Mr. HUGHES. Certainly. [Passing to Mr. Hooper the book.]
          Mr. HOOPER. Now I have said that the only information we had that resignations had been
            made was the statement of Senator Cravens. That is my distinct recollection. It still
            left a sufficient number to constitute a quorum. I remember when the roll was being
            called, after it was announced that thirty-four Senators had answered to their names
            andwere in their seats, some of them said they did not know whether their resignations
            had been accepted or not. But as the Senator desires the record should be referred to I
            will refer to it: [Mr. H. reads the second column of page 222 and to near the bottom of
            the first column page 223 of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS volume XII.]
          Mr. HOOPER (resuming.) It was under these circumstances that I submitted the
            resolution. I stand as firmly on the Constitution as the Senator. It was my doctrine,
            held from the beginning to the end that it takes two thirds of the members of the Senate
            to constititute a quorum and because there was a quorum present I offered the amendment
            and it was acted on by the body at that time. I don't understand that there was any
            going back by the Senate or the Lieutenant Governor on that question. In my judgment
            that amendment to the Constitution, as far as the Senate is concerned was just as
            legally presented and just as legally passed as any single act, bill or resolution that
            was passed during the regular or special session of 1869.
          Mr. TAYLOR. I move that the Senate adjourn.
          The motion--at 4:30 o'clock--was rejected upon a division affirmative 20, negative
            24.
          Mr. GRAY. Mr. President: I have no desire, sir, to make a speech on the question before
            the Senate. The Senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown] has asserted by authority that Mr.
            Burson does not desire this matter to be pressed now. I shall not undertake, most
            assuredly, to force any gentleman into his seat against his will. I, however, want to
            make just a few remarks, and but a few with regard to a question I admit totally
            irrelavent to the question before the Senate, but I simply want to allude to a matter
            brought up by an illustrious predecessor--the Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes.]
          I feel a little interested in the question as to whether there was a quorum present at
            the time of the ratification and acceptance on the part of Indiana of the XVth amendment
            to the Constitution of the United States. Being President pro tempore
            of the Senate, and having the honor to sign the joint resolution and I would say to the
            Senator from Monroe that I signed it in a large John Hancock kind of a hand for I
            thought it was an honor--I feel, inasmuch as I took the position during the whole
            session of the Legislature that it took two-thirds of the body to constitute a quorum,
            that I do not want to be represented upon this floor or elsewhere as having voted or
            signed a resolution contrary to the doctrine I supported during the entire ression.
          The facts are the Democratic Senators came into the Senate immediately after dinner
            with the understanding that if the XVth amendment was not introduced they were Senators,
            but that if the XVth amendment was introduced they were not Senators. They were acting
            on the principle of the juggler, "now you see it; now you don't see it." "I am in my
            seat all right, if you don't bring the nigger in, 
            but if you bring the nigger in, presto, change, I am gone." I remember, like the Senator
            from Whitley, [Mr. Hooper,] very distinctly, that the President called the roll of the
            Senate, and the record will bear me out in the assertion. I have before me the record of
            the Senate which I presume is the proper evidence, and the only evidence which ought to
            be taken as regards the action of this body. [Mr. G. reads from the Secretary's
            journal.]
          Mr. GRAY (resuming.) Senators came into the chamber when the roll was called and
            answered to their names, and when the roll call was made they didn't know whether they
            were Senators or not. I say they were Senators if we did not offer the XVth amendment
            and if we did they were not.
          Mr. HUGHES. The record shows there were twenty-seven voting one way and one another. It
            is an every day usage, on the roll call of the yeas and nays, if a quorum does not vote
            that the Chair orders a call of the House and does not announce the number voting.
          Mr. BRADLEY. I will state to the Senator that when the vote was taken I was not within
            three quarters of a mile of the State House.
          Mr. GRAY. The record is the best evidence.
          Mr. DENBO. Mr. President: If the Senator will allow me, I wish to state, sir, that I
            was not present although the record [the Secretary's journal] shows I was present when
            that roll was called. I did not answer to my name, neither was I here when the vote was
            taken as the Senator from Laporte [Mr. Bradley] well knows. He and I were some distance
            from the Capitol at the time of taking of that vote. I merely wish to make this
            correction.
          Mr. GRAY. All the gentlemen's remarks amount to is that they are attempting to impeach
            the record. I am simply talking to the record. The Secratary who made the record was a
            particular friend of these gentlemen. I certainly would not make the charge against the
            Secratary of the Senate that he made a false record. If gentlemen make such a charge
            they ought to speak it out. I say the record is correct, and if gentlemen are a mind to
            accuse the Secratary of the Senate with having made a false record let them do so.
          Mr. HUGHES (interposing.) In justice to the secretary, I would say that the record
            shows the secretary was directed to enter it so by order of the Senate. The Senate has
            to bear the blame and not the Secratary.
          Mr. GRAY. The record shows those who were present and declined to vote were--
          Mr. JOHNSTON (interrupting.) I would like to ask the Senator, does the record show that
            the Senators who were declared present and refused to vote were themselves here?
          Mr. GRAY. The record shows those present and not voting were Messrs. Carson, Denbo,
            Gifford, Henderson, Johnston of Montgomery, Lasselle, Lee, Morgan, Sherrod and
            Smith.
          Mr. JOHNSTON (interposing.) The record does not say that the members were here. It
            simply shows that the clerk so entered it. Is that the meaning of it?
          Mr. GRAY. The record shows further--[Mr. G. reads.]
          Mr. Stein offered the following resolution--[See pages 224 and 225 BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS---volume
            XI.]
          Mr. GRAY (resuming.) I desire to make one more remark or two in defense of the
            Presiding Officer, inasmuch as the Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] remarked the other
            day, when talking about the decision of the Chair that there was no Senate when there
            were but twenty Senators present;--he acknowledged that to be the rule, but he said he
            found the President of the Senate had taken that to be the rule in the beginning of the
            book [the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS] but looking a little further along he found that rule had been
            abandoned. Now among the very last acts of the Presiding Officer of the Senate is this
            decision. Mr. Bellamy offered the following resolution: [Mr. G. reads see page 236 of
            the BREVIER REPORTS volume XI.]
          Mr. GRAY (resuming.) The President of the Senate ruled that out of order; and I will
            say to the Senator from Monroe that no where in that book nor in the Journals of the
            Regular or Special session from the beginning to the end, can he find a decision
            contrary to the fact that it takes thirty-four Senators to make a quorum. I challenge
            him to show it.
          Mr. HUGHES (interposing.) Will the Senator allow me to ask: Does he not admit that as
            far as the House is concerned there was no quorum at the time of its vote on the
            Constitutional amendment?
          Mr. GRAY. Do I understand the Senator to ask if I think it was a legal vote?
          Mr. HUGHES responded affirmatively.
          Mr. GRAY. I never have believed it was. I said at the time I was willing to acknowledge
            it, but that it was legally ratified as far as the Senate was concerned I am confident.
            A great many took the position that if a majority of the members of the Legislature
            voted for it that was sufficient and I said I would sign it and let it go for what it
            was worth.
          Now one remark more and I am done. The Senator from Monroe talking about the posision
            taken by the Senator from Hendricks said it would do for an argument before a Justice of
            the Peace, but was hardly worthy a hearing there. Now I desire to ask the Senator as a
            lawyer one question. Here comes the Senator  from
            Delaware, [Mr. Burson] a Board of Canvassers declare him elected; and he has got the
            certificate with the broad seal of the Board upon it. Now what are the requisites of
            law? What does the law say he mast have to be a Senator? He comes clothed, I repeat,
            with all the requisites of the law. In opposition to that there is an ex
              parte evidence from certain citizens of Delaware county, and the Senator puts
            that on a level with the credentials presented. I want to ask whether these charges of
            fraud ought not to be made out first? If not I want to know where he learned that kind
            of law.
          Mr. HUGHES. The Senator misapprehends the question. It is as to who had the right to
            decide the question when the Senator from Morgan [Mr. Henderson] made his objection and
            presented what the Senator [Mr. Gray] calls an ex parte affidavit. It
            certainly destroyed the prima facie case; and as a matter of law and
            of courtersy the entire Senate should have been allowed to take the matter in its own
            hands.
          Mr. GRAY. I understand what is the question. I am talking outside because the Senator
            did. I say the position is equally ridiculous that will take credentials regular in form
            where no exception are taken to them, and deprive a Senator of his seat upon an ex parte affidavit of a few citizens. Suppose the Senator from Monroe
            comes here with credentials and some citizen hands in an affidavit that he is
            disqualified when the Senator is about to he sworn in, would the Senator stand
            aside?
          Mr. HUGHES. Yes, sir. Whenever I present credentials and any of my constitutents charge
            me on oath with having obtained them by fraud I would stand up and say; "Mr. President,
            I decline taking a seat among honorable Senators until the Senate has purged me of that
            charge." [Applause; which was promptly checked by the Lieutenant Governor.]
          Mr. GRAY (resuming.) I suppose there is not a county in the State in which such
            evidence cannot be had against perhaps every member of the Senate. The defeated
            candidate always cries "fraud," and it would be an easy thing to have some man swear to
            it. Of course I have no right to doubt what the Senator says and I expect he would do as
            he says, but I don't believe the Senator would yield as readily as he thinks if he
            thought he was clearly elected and that the majority would keep his case in a Committee
            room during the whole of the session and deprive him of his seat. Perhaps he would but I
            doubt it very much.
          Mr. JOHNSTON. Mr. President: This, sir, is rather a novel case in the Senate of
            Indiana. I don't propose to go over the ground occupied by others, for I want to come
            down to the question. The question is on an appeal of Senators from a decision of the
            Chair. The Chair having once decided that Mr. Burson was entitled to be called to vote
            upon a question, and an appeal being taken from that decision and the Senate itself
            deciding otherwise, the custom has been in the Senate ever since I have had the honor of
            a seat here that when the Chair made a decision and the Senate itself decides adverse to
            it that decision has stood as a rule of the Senate and has never been reversed by the
            President. In fact we have never acknowledged that the President of the Senate had the
            power to set aside or reverse a decision of the Senate on the question of an appeal. Now
            the Senate has once decided this question that Mr. Burson could not be called as a
            Senator and vote. The journals show that. Now the Chair decides on another question that
            Mr. Burson has the right to vote, and an appeal from that decision is taken; and we are
            called upon to decide the identical question again. As to the right of the Senate to
            decide that question, I reckon, there is no doubt.
          This, Mr. President, is the first time in my remembrance where a Senator has produced
            his credentials and they were followed by a memorial asking that he be not allowed to
            take his seat on account of any fraud in procuring his election, therefore I say it is a
            novel case. I have had some familiarity with the action of the Indiana Legislature for
            the last twenty years; and I have no remembrance of hearing of a case of the kind
            before. I don't presume you could get another such a case in the whole State of Indiana.
            I have no idea you could get such a one in my county or in the Senator's county over the
            way--in fact I don't believe you could get such another one in the State of Indiana. The
            Constitution says:
          Every person shall be disqualified from holding office during the term for which he may
            have been elected, who shall have given or offered a bribe, thereat, or reward, to
            procure his election.
          The Constitution declares who is disqualified from holding a seat here, and upon these
            grounds when prima facie evidence of election is brought in here by
            Mr. Burson this Senate is put upon its guard, for here comes from his own home a
            memorial asking that he be not sworn in, because if guilty of what they charge, the
            Constitution evidently excludes him from a seat in this body.
          Mr. GRAY (interposing.) The point I made is this: Whether Mr. Burson, who is a Senator
            elect, ought to be considered guilty or presumed to be innocent, until they prove the
            charges.
          Mr. JOHNSTON. I was not talking about a point made by the Senator for in reality I
            didn't see it. [Laughter.]

          

          Mr. GRAY. I understood the Senator to say that he was charged with fraud.
          Mr. JOHNSTON. I say there was a memorial presented here which declared that he was
            guilty of these things, and it was sufficient to put us on our guard. Consequently the
            Senate has declared by a vote that his name could not be called to vote upon matters
            that come before this body. I hold that vote is valid and cannot be rescinded except in
            one way and that is by a reconsideration of that vote; and the time for the
            reconsideration of a vote of that kind is passed, and we must go on in the order we
            commenced.
          Mr. GREEN. Mr. President: I had concluded to say nothing at this time, but I see the
            Senator from Montgomery [Mr. Johnston] is getting old and forgetful. I remember fourteen
            years or more, meeting the gentleman in this hall at the time a certain man's seat was
            contested by the name of Leroy Woods. He had accepted an office as moral instructor in
            the States' prison at a salary of $300 per year, and that we thought was sufficient
            cause for turning him out on the Constitutional ground that no person shall hold two
            lucrative offices at one and the same time. I was voting as I thought the Constitution
            warranted me,and my friend was voting to sustain him.
          Mr. JOHNSTON (interposing,) You cannot put that case as parallel to this.
          Mr. GREEN. It is not an exact case. He said he never knew of the existence of anything
            of this kind. I'll tell you how that case stood. We wanted to reject the Senator and
            were a tie, with the Presiding Officer against us, and upon a certain time it came over
            the mind of the Senate that they would go over to the other end of the Capitol to elect
            United States Senators; and while they were in that end, we were attending to the
            legitimate business of the Senate. We turned Mr. Woods out--the record shows the vote
            was taken without the yeas and nays--and he was ousted. When they returned gentlemen
            assumed the ground that we had not a quorum and nothing could be done, and the Presiding
            Officer of the Senate directed the Secretary to call Mr. Woods' name, and here we had it
            day in and day out.
          Mr. JOHNSTON. My memory is not quite as short as the Senator thinks. The opposition to
            Mr. Woods was not based upon any act disqualifying him from a seat here. The man who
            came up to claim his seat, it leaked out during the struggle between the two, had been
            guilty of some kind of misconduct that Senators considered disqualified him from holding
            office and he abandoned the contest and went home. No memorial followed Mr. Woods. He
            was sworn in without objection.
          Mr. GREEN. The point I make is, that there was really a vote and the record of the
            Senate showed that we had turned a man out of his seat, and over that the Chairman
            directed that his name be called. Now they say that it is without example for the
            President to have a member's name called after the House has decided that his name
            should not be called. I say it is not without example for Mr. Hammond [the President of
            the Senate at the time referred to] did direct it and it was done day in and day
            out.
          I have no desire to make a speech for the ground has all been covered. My mind is made
            up and it is clear to me. The only question is, were the credentials of the Senator from
            Delaware and Madison [Mr. Burson] legal upon their face, and if so when sworn in he
            became a Senator from that moment, and he is a Senator until his contested case is
            decided. If decided in his favor he remains, if against him, which a majority cannot do,
            he retires. There is no power under the Constitution or the rules regulating any
            deliberative body which authorizes it to stop a man and keep him from voting. There is
            but one way and that is to impeach him and that takes two-thirds. My doctrine is, that
            Mr. Burron is as much a Senator as I or the Senator from Montgomery [Mr. Johnston.] If I
            were in the Chair where you are, sir, I would direct his name to be called, and let it
            be called an have him vote until his case is decided. I think it is an outrage upon the
            Constitution and every parliamentary rule I ever read. When a man's mouth is stopped and
            he has no rights as a Senator upon this floor, he is impeached. But I have heard enough
            of this discussion and I feel no disposition to continue it.
          Mr. WOOD. Mr. President: I desire to say a few words. I believe the ground taken here
            by one or two Senators who have held the action of the majority is revolutionary and
            void is true, unless that section of Article 4 of the Constitution saves the majority.
            If the action of the majority in depriving a Senatorial district of its representative
            here, is without authority of law anywhere, of course it ought not to be regarded a
            single moment by the Senate, and we can get rid of the action heretofore had without a
            motion to reconsider. If they have the right to act as they have it is under that clause
            of the Constitution which gives to each House the right to judge of the election and
            qualification of its own members. That seems to be the ground that the Senator from
            Monroe [Mr. Hughes] claims they had the right to act upon--there sis no other
            tenable.
          Now let us examine the facts of this case and ascertain whether they had the right to
            act upon this ground. Have sufficient acts transpired to warrant the saying of the
            Senator who presents the credentials of a member and who was sworn in by one of the
            judges of the supreme Court--the same officer of State  who administered the oath to the balance of us--has there
            been introduced any proof to show that he was guilty of the suggestion made by the
            Senator from Morgan [Mr. Henderson] when that Senator protested against his being sworn
            in? What is the language of the Constitution? Of course we are not going to claim that
            this Senate is not entitled to judge of the qualifications and election of its members,
            because we have the Constitution which savs we have the right to do so. But does any
            Senator pretend to say that a mere suggestion made by the Senator from Morgan at the
            time a Senator appears to be sworn in is sufficient evidence upon which this Senate
            should judge of his qualifications? Is that what the Constitution contemplates? I
            apprehend the Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] and the Senator from Montgomery, [Mr.
            Johnson,] both of whom have referred to this clause of the Constitution, will not insist
            that the Constitution ever meant that we should ever render judgment based upon the
            suggestion of a Senator merely.
          The Senator may say that he has further proof, and a memorial with an affidavit showing
            that somebody believed he purchased votes, but that is not sufficient grounds to refuse
            to accept his credentials.
          Something has been said about what might be done in a Justices' court, but there is no
            attorney in this hall, I presume, will say that that memorial amounts to evidence any
            way. Yet they ask us to judge a Senator as ineligible because the Senator from Morgan
            says certain citizens say, and one swore he had been guilty of bribery. Upon a mere
            suggestion, one of the Senatorial districts of Indiana is deprived of representation in
            this Hall. This does not justify us in acting without evidence. That being the case the
            action of the Senate, as has been suggested, is without the authority of law, without
            precedent, and as the Senator from Montgomery [Mr. Johnston] said it is a novel
            proceeding in the State of Indiana. And he might have added in the history of any other
            State in the Union. I say the action of the majority of the Senate in this instance,
            from beginning to end, and up to this time has been revolutionary and void.
          Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President: There are several propsitions made by Senators on the other
            side of the House which I do not pretend to deny. One is that this body has the power to
            judge of the qualification of its members. Now sir what is the question here? Is it a
            question of that kind? I conceive not. I don't think that question is involved in this
            thing at all. And why? Simply because the resolution of the Senator--I don't remember
            his name--refers this matter to a select committee, refers the credentials to a select
            committee and refers the contest to a select committee. That is all correct as I can
            conceive, but don't go to the bottom of the proceedings before the Senate. Why Mr.
            President, the Senator who made the argument in the opening of this controversy--from
            what point I do not remember but I know his face--took the ground distinctly that there
            was no controversy as to the election of Mr. Burson. They did'nt put it upon the ground
            that he hadn't a majoarity.
          They did'nt put it upon the ground that he was not at the time legally ineligible to
            the office, but upon some matter that was raised after his election--after giving the
            certificate something occured as I understand it. If that position is true then the
            question of credentials does not come properly before that committee as I can
            conceive.
          Mr. HUGHES (interposing.) The resolution in express terms refers to the
            credentials.
          Mr. SCOTT. I admit the resolution refers to the credentials but the argument on the
            other side, as I understand it, concedes the election of the Senator [Mr Burson] and the
            correctness of his credentials. Then why refer the matter that you admit as correct on
            its face? No, sir, that is merely matter thrown in and don't belong to the case, and the
            Senator very properly admitted it in his argument.
          Now, sir, speaking of another matter the Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] has reminded
            me of, and that is this, I don't know whether he is correct or the Senator from Marion
            [Mr. Martindale] but I judge from the language of the Senator from Monroe that he
            concludes that the Senator from Marion can not be correct because he admitted that
            Magistrates and notaries might swear Senators. As far as that is concerned I do not see
            any difference between the two things.
          Mr. HUGHES. The Senator from Marion contends it can be done outside of this Senate--not
            in the presence of this body.
          Mr. SCOTT. I understand the question now. It is said the Senator might have been sworn
            in before a magistrate at another point and at some other place; and I understand he
            insists now that Senators must be sworn in the Senate Chamber in order to make it legal.
            Now, sir, it seems to me that position is untenable. Why, sir, if there is no provision
            of law regulating the administering of an oath, what has the place to do with the
            administering of it, I would like to know? Why, nothing in the world. What has the
            officer to do but administer the oath whether he be a magistrate or an officer high in
            authority? If he is a magistrate it is a little oath, and if he is a Supreme Judge it is
            a high binding oath--is that the difference? And, sir, suppose he had been sworn in a
            barn instead of the Senate Chamber, and appealed to the same authority--to God--for the
            truth and correctness of his  action, would it make
            any difference? Why, I can't see. It is a very novel proceeding a very singular
            position--and I take it the gentleman is himself entitled to a patent for the discovery
            that a man can't be sworn as a Senator unless he comes into the Senate Chamber.
          Mr. HUGHES. I would like the Senator to inform the Senate where a Justice of the Peace
            derives authority to organize the Senate or administer any oaths in that case unless in
            the presence of the body and Presiding Officer? In other words I would like for him to
            state, if he means to affirm on this floor that a Justice of the Peace can organize the
            Senate in some barn. [Laughter.]
          Mr. SCOTT. Will the Senator put his finger on the law which says any officer authorized
            to administer oaths cannot swear in a Senator. I am not asserting any new doctrine. I am
            merely showing the distinction between the arguments of the Senators from Monroe and
            Marion. I think the gentleman from Marion the most consistent. I know what the
            precedents are. In this Senate it is customary to bring men here to swear them in and it
            is proper, I admit.
          Mr. HUGHES. As the Senator has inquired for the law I will read a section of the
            Constitution [he reads part of section nine of article four.] It says "at the Capitol,"
            not in any barn. [Laughter.] Now the Senator must show the law changing the place to
            some barn.
          Mr. SCOTT. I would like to inquire of the Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] whether the
            word "Capitol" means "building" or "city." I say the Capitol may be a barn, we are not
            compelled to meet here. Suppose this building were to burn down to night, would it be
            contended we could have no session because we have no Capitol?
          Mr. HUGHES. I would inquire of the Senator whether he has any authentic information
            that any Senator has been sworn in a barn.
          Mr. SCOTT. I don't know whether the Senator concieves this to be a barn or not, but of
            course, that question can't come it. Here is what the argument amounts to, and all that
            it does amount to as I can see. If it is not imperative that a man should not be sworn
            in here he may be sworn in anyplace sir. Therefore a man might be sworn in any place and
            come here with proper credentials and be a legal member of this body. The only two
            points to be considered are these: Are his credentials in proper form and is the oath
            proper in form, endorsed upon his credentials or some other place showing that he has
            been legally sworn. That is all the argument amounts to. Why, sir, he would be a Senator
            in spite of you, and I would like to know what good it would do to say "I object to that
            man's being sworn?" It would not amount to anything would it? I guess not.
          Now, sir, this case proceeds upon this point. This man has been properly sworn. That is
            the ground we insist upon, and that is the ground we stand upon, and he is a Senator of
            this body, and what is the next question? Why, Senators admit of his being sworn by
            saying he has been illegally sworn. How? By a person not qualified? Has he not a
            certificate? Has he not the majority of the votes cast? They admit that. Then why should
            he not be sworn? Why, he has been sworn but, they say, illegally sworn. But, sir, it
            comes round in a circle. If he had been sworn somewhere else, where there was no
            objection, he would have been just as much a Senator as now. When sworn he is a Senator
            anyhow, because he has the qualifications of a Senator as much as the Senator over the
            way, or I, or any body else.
          What is the next point? I will admit if the Senator after we were legally organized,
            had asked to have the certificate of a member referred to a committee for examination it
            would have been legal, sir, and he would have been entitled to vote until that committee
            had reported against him. But no such thing was done. The credentials were referred
            after the man was actually sworn in and his certificate had passed the officer and found
            to be correct.
          What do gentlemen desire to do? To get rid of him by a majority vote? I insist that
            can't be done. They say the Senator from Delaware, whose case is contested, does not
            wish these proceedings. That has not a feather's weight in my mind. It does not make any
            difference to my constituents or to his. It is a question of right, sir.
          But, sir, I say the resolution of the Senator from Monroe, only went to the point
            before this body and not beyond it. It only decided that the Senator's vote should not
            be called then, and did not refer to after proceedings. Would they disqualify a member
            in a way not known to the law? What is the way? I undertake to say a majority of this
            body may say I shall not vote and I may not have an opportunity simply because the clerk
            does not call my name, but you are not depriving me of my qualifications. You can't do
            it in that way. There is no proposition before this body to determine the returns of
            Senator Burson. A man who has a certificate and is sworn in always votes, it is a matter
            of choice with himself whether he steps aside or not.
          Now Senators say here is a proposition which disqualifies a Senator. How? It charges
            him with bribery. The Senator from Monroe takes up my friend from Hendricks because he
            declared the judgment of this House was illegal and void. I would like to ask the
            Senator if a Judge should order a man hung  without
            authority, if every man who puts his finger forward to carry out the order would not be
            guilty of murder for hanging a man without a trial? Every body will admit that. Well,
            when Senators attempt to turn a member out of this body; outside of the Constitutional
            way I would like to know where their authority is?
          Suppose it was a contest and an impeachment referred to this body--suppose the Senator
            intended it to be a matter of impeachment, why, sir, how is the Presiding Officer to
            judge of it? Have they the number required to disqualify a member? No, sir, it takes
            two-thirds. Can a bare majority disqualify a Senator here, when the Constitution says it
            shall take two-thirds? Why, hardly, I guess. I think the Presiding Officer would be very
            safe in saying: "Your resolution simply pointed to the resolution before the Senate and
            there were some reasons why the Senator should not vote--he is not a linguist, or
            something."
          It is the principle, sir, we are fighting for, not the Senator. If he has put his case
            in the hands of gentlemen who represent him on this floor, I have no objection. The
            Senator has not consulted me, and I am glad of it. I do not know what his views are,
            neither do I care what his views are. The same thing could be sprung upon me tomorrow,
            and I fight it as a matter of principal. Here is a man sworn into office and I say
            entitled to vote as much as I am upon this floor, and if the Presiding Officer or
            Secretary calls his name and he don't choose to vote, I don't care whether he votes or
            not.
          I don't care about the XVth amendment in this vote. That nightmare has gone by. The
            colored individual has long since ceased to trouble my mind. The negroes are voters now
            and whether legal or illegal they have ceased to trouble me. I think the proceedings
            here on the amendment are right as far as they went. I have not looked at the record to
            see whether there was a quorum or not. I did my duty, and whether legal or illegal I
            left it to time, and circumstances and the power that was to determine.
          Mr. MORGAN. Suppose I read the Senator's remarks made upon that occasion. [Mr. M. read
            Mr. Scott's explanation of his vote on page 224 of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS--volume XI.]
          Mr. SCOTT. I have a faint remembrance of that little speech I made on that occasion. It
            was made with this impression on my mind: I, with several other Senators on this floor,
            had agreed (it was not in writing that I know of,) that we would give gentlemen on the
            other side time, if they wished to make a retreat when the colored individual was to
            make his appearance and overshadow all of them, and they had agreed that they would
            legislate. After the thing had run on some time some of them became suspicious of the
            word of certain Senators on this side as to whether they would keep their agreement. I
            seemed to have had that on my mind when I made that speech and it seems my suspicions
            were not unfounded, they went down to the Governor's room very quietly, or some place
            else, and prepared their resignations and put them in the hands of a friend to deposit
            in the Governor's office without letting us know of it. I would like to know, as between
            man and man, if we were to give them notice, they were not equally bound to give us
            notice?
          Mr. MORGAN. I read this little speech of his because the Senator had just said that he
            believed there was a quorum present at the time.
          Mr. SCOTT. That referred to the breaking of a quorum in the House, I think.
          Mr. HOOPER We understood members of the House had already resigned, and had reason to
            believe that eleven Senators had resigned and that was what I had reference to.
          Mr. SCOTT. Gentlemen were fearful of coming into this hall. They were not inclined to
            say we don't believe what you said but we're going to take our own time and get out of
            the way while we have an opportunity. We voted with that impression. I may be mistaken,
            but I know I voted upon that XVth amendment under the impression that there was here in
            this hall a sufficient number of Senators to make my vote legal, but understood that in
            the other end of the Capitol enough representatives had resigned so as to make that body
            below what was recognized by the Constitution as a quorum. I think the record will bear
            out the assertion that the Presiding Officer held that after we lost a quorum there was
            no power to do business.
          Mr. HUGHES. I will ask if the Republicans did not hold a caucus to decide when they
            would bring up this Fifteenth Amendment.
          Mr. SCOTT. If there was any such a caucus I did not know anything about it, and I
            believe the five or six gentlemen acting with me knew nothing about it. I intended to
            carry out that agreement in good faith and I was sorry and pained when I found those
            Senators were not willing to take my word to the full extent I pledged it.
          Mr. BRADLEY. I have not spoken on this question, but rise [at 5.45 o'clock] to move the
            previous question. [See near the bottom of second column on page 58.]
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Wabash and Erie Canal--Debate in Continuation.
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            FRIDAY, January 13, 1871.
          
          
            [IN CONTINUATION--PAGE 82 MIDDLE OF THE SECOND COLUMN.]
          
          Mr. CAVEN. Mr. President: The concurrent resolution offered by the Senator from Jackson
            [Mr. Brown--see page 21] was made the special order for yesterday afternoon. A
            proposition for an amendment to the Constitution of the State, on the same subject, has
            also been presented to the Senate [see pages 27 and 28] and inasmuch as his resolution
            and the proposed amendment treat on the same subject the two propositions should be
            considered together.
          With the remarks of the Senator from Tipton [Mr. Green] who has just taken his seat, I
            fully concur. And I concur in much that was said by the Senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown]
            in favor of the adoption of a portion of these resolutions. His arguments in support of
            the main resolution are so thorough and so conclusive, taken in connection with the
            arguments contained in the message of the Governor, that it seems to me anything that
            now could be said would almost amount to repetition. I shall endeavor to avoid
            repetition in what I shall say, and confine myself to what I deem to be additional
            arguments, and to explantions of my reasons for some difference of opinion between us.
            The first resolution is this: [Mr. C. reads--see page 21.]
          This resolution I concur in almost entirely. It is my individual opinion that the State
            of Indiana has now no power under the Constitution to make a purchase of the canal
            itself, or to purchase certificates of stocks or to pay off what might be called the
            canal debt. This is a matter of opinion on a question which the Senator from Jackson,
            myself or this Senate has not the power to decide finally. That is a judicial
            question--a question for the Supreme Court of the Slate of Indiana; and that Court, upon
            a fuller consideration of the matter, might not sustain our opinion; they might
            determine that the State of Indiana, under the provisions of the Constitution, had such
            power. If our resolutions to-day could be final and conclusive, I would not care for
            anything more than the adoption of the Senator's resolution. The latter part of the
            resolution I heartily concur in. I shall probably vote for the entire resolution, but
            the latter portion meets with my fullest acquiscence:
          I now propose to discuss this view of the question, and present some arguments in
            addition to those that have been presented, and I expect to go farther than any one yet.
            I expect to take broader grounds than the Governor of the State, and much broader ground
            than the Senator from Jackson. I am fully of opinion that the settlement made by the act
            of 1846, was a final act--a complete and absolute payment of one-half the bonds
            surrendered. And I take the further position which seems to be involved in the
            discussion of this question. It is this: That the parties agreeing to this
            contract--accepting the transfer of this canal took it subject to all liens. It was an
            unqualified acceptance subject to all liens whatever. In order to make this proposition
            clear it will be necesesary to refer to some of the specific provisions of these acts.
            The settlement was made under two acts--one passed in 1846, the other in 1847--the
            latter being supplementary to the act of 1846. This is to be regarded as a contract
            between two parties, the State of Indiana being one; and it was necessarily in due form
            of law. I will first call  attention to a section
            of the act of 1847. It has been somewhat discussed, and I find myself differing in
            opinion from gentlemen who have preceded me with regard to its construction. It is this
            peculiar clause: [Mr. C. reads from the latter portion of sec. 8.]
          I understand that by a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States, it has been
            held that this provision was null and void, it being held that it was in violation of
            that provision of the Constitution of the United States to the effect that no law shall
            be passed impairing the obligation of any contract. In one sense that might be true, and
            in another not. It could be only held to impair the obligation of the contract to pay
            the original internal improvement bonds. Could this have had the force of law, and not
            in violation of the Constitution of the United States, it would have added nothing to
            the position of the State of Indiana against the payment of these bonds. She being a
            sovereign there was no legal mode of compelling her to pay. It was only necessary for
            her to fail voluntarily to make provision to discharge the obligation. No suit would be
            entertained by the Courts of the United States as against the State of Indiana, for it
            is expressly prohibited by a provision of the Constitution. The State authorized no suit
            to be brought against herself, and the Constitution we have at present was not in force
            at that time. The State cannot authorize suit to be brought against her for the
            enforcement of the obligation created prior to the adoption of the Constitution of 1852.
            Intrenched behind her sovereignty, she could only be compelled to pay by act of war--by
            force of arms of a superior power.
          Let us look at what the effect of it is, and the bearing it has upon other parties--the
            parties who refuse to enter into this contract. I regard this proposition--not as an
            attempt to compel bondholders to come into the arrangement. This was a proposal on the
            part of the State to enter into a new arrangement with her creditors a proposal to make
            a new contract. While in one sense this may have been regarded as an expression of the
            sovereign pleasure of the State that she would not pay off her bonds in any other
            manner, that was not the intention. It was intended to be one item among others that
            went to constitute a new contract. The State simply said that "upon certain conditions
            we will transfer to you this canal, its rents, tolls, &c.; and one condition is if
            you accept it, it is binding between us, and we will make no provision for the payment
            of the outstanding old internal improvement bonds." When this proposal was accepted this
            became part of the contract. It did not impair or attempt to impair the obligation of an
            existing contract which all parties concerned agreed to. Then the holders of the bonds
            ratified and accepted this proposal, it then became a new, complete and binding contract
            between them and the State.
          But suppose they had accepted it with the acception of this simple provision, and so
            reported it to the Legislature, then it would not have been a contract at all. While
            made by one party it would not have been excepted in full by the other, and hence would
            not have become a contract at all. The effect of this was simply a proposal by the State
            to enter into a new contract which was accepted and entered into by the creditors; and
            part of that contract was, that as far as the State was concerned, as between the State
            and the bondholders who accepted, the State would not make any provision for the payment
            of any bonds which should not be surrendered, which, of course, left it for the
            creditors to make provision for themselves.
          The act of 1836, by which the system of internal improvement, and the loan of money
            authorized, provided among other things, that the public works should be constructed
            from these loans; that the loans or bonds should be a lien on the works to be
            constructed in the future. This was a public act--a provision of law, published among
            our statutes, and constructive notice to the whole world, and, I have no doubt known to
            all the holders of the bonds, either to them personally or the agents representing them.
            This section of the contract seems to recognize, the existence of that lien, and in
            providing that the State would make no provision for the future, said in effect; ''If
            you accept this provision, you take the canal for the discharge of half this debt, and
            you can make provision to see that these bonds are surrendered, or protect - yourself
            against those not surrendered." The acceptance by the bondholders or a portion of them
            was an agreement to that provision. They said "we will take this canal on these terms."
            It was, therefore, neither repudiation nor impairing the obligation of the contract on
            the part of the State. In support of this view of the question there is another section
            perhaps stronger still. This is the law of 1846. [Mr. C. reads section 8.]
          This makes a transfer of the canal subject to all existing claims against the State.
            The act of 1847, supplementary to this act provides that the canal, lands, tolls, rents,
            &c., shall be transferred for the benefit of the creditors upon the terms of the act
            of 1846; so there is a direct provision for the transfer of the canal, subject to all
            liabilities against the State and the chief and prominent and perhaps almost entire lien
            or indebtedness was the lien of the outstanding old internal improvement bonds.
          So far as the question is concerned between the State and the present transferees of
            the canal, my view of the question is this; and the question probably arises in
            discussing the res-  olutions of the Senator from
            Jackson: What would be the effect of the payment by the State of the outstanding
            unsurrendered bonds? or what would be the effect of the non-payment by the State of
            Indiana of these same outstanding bonds? My opinion is that as far as it affects the
            relation between the State of Indiana and the holders of certificates, it is utterly an
            immaterial question whether or not the State pays the same or any part thereof. My
            reason is that if the State of Indiana is bound to pay these unsurrendered bonds, either
            in morals or law, and have paid them, this simple performance of a duty could create nor
            revive no claim; and if the State is not bound and yet has paid them gratuitously, and
            that has wrought no injury to holders of canal certificates, and hence by this act the
            State of Indiana caused them no damage, neither could it be the basis of a claim against
            the State.
          But suppose the canal was liable to pay off these old bonds, and the State happened to
            pay them, or a portion of them, this, on the part of the State of Indiana, is simply
            doing more with the other party to this contract than we agreed to do simply more than
            carrying out our part of the contract. If the State has been so generous as to pay out
            so many thousand dollars, thus extending a gratuity, upon that act of generosity it is
            clear they can not found a claim as of right, against the State for some eighteen
            millions of dollars. This, then, seems to cover the question in my mind, whether the
            State is liable to pay off these bonds. My view is she is not--there is no liability
            neither as a consequence of failure or non-failure--as between us and the holders of
            canal certificates.
          There is another resolution amongst those offered by the Senator from Jackson, which
            censures Governor Baker for paying off a portion of these bonds. Now, I differ entirely
            with the Senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown.] If I understand him correctly, his argument
            is, that in the issuance of these internal improvement bonds the State was not primarily
            liable--that the bonds were primarily chargeable upon the canal, and the State was
            simply a guarantor. In this I do not concur. There can not be a guarantor unless there
            is a principal. The canal was not a principal, for it was not a party competet not incur
            a liability. The State of Indiana made this loan, and in order to give additional
            security it also guaranteed or made these bonds a lien upon the internal improvements
            thereafter to be constructed. It is highly improbable that foreign money lenders would
            have loaned money to the State of Indiana when the only security was internal
            improvements yet to be constructed; with no claim upon the State--no pledge except
            secondary.
          But even if this could have been effected,we find that the canal failed to make good
            these bonds; hence the State was liable in a secondary capacity at the time of this
            settlement. In addition we will show the State was directly liable. These acts of
            1846-47 were simply in proposition for a compromise which was afterward accepted by the
            bondholders. This new contract made between the parties was changed or was a substitute
            for the old one, and any construction put by them on the former contract would
            undoubtedly be the construction the law of 1846 put upon the liability of the State for
            these bonds. [Mr. C. read from chapter one of the General Laws of 1846, pages 3 and 4the
            five "whereases" and part of sec. 1.]
          Again, the supplementary act of 1847 says: [Mr. C. also read from section one, of the
            laws of 1847.]
          So we see that the Legislature in passing these acts of 1846 and 1847 seems to regard
            them as bonds of the State, on which the State was primarily and solely liable. These
            acts of 1846 and 1847, accepted by the bondholders, were binding as between the State
            and those who accepted them, or between the State and the parties who did not accept,
            however, their claims still exists. No bondholder was bound to accept, and some of them
            did not, and as far as they were concerned the debt was originally due from the State,
            and it is still due.
          The bonds of the United States were bought at a premium--the United States having paid
            a premium of 7 per cent for them. The bonds were held by the United States in trust for
            certain Indian tribes for many years, and as has been stated, the United States reserved
            out of the three per cent. road fund coming to Indiana a sufficient sum to pay off the
            interest.
          During the rebellion the United States became indebted to the State of Indiana in a
            much larger sum, and in the settlement of these claims, the United States set off as
            much of our bonds against an equal amount due us, and paid Indiana the difference. Was
            it not just and right that the leaders should have reserved an amount sufficient to pay
            these bonds? It certainly would have been doing injustice to other States had the United
            States refused to do so. Governor Baker's message two years ago says Senator Morton
            wrote him that there was a bill about to pass the Congress of the United States to cover
            this case-to prevent the United States from paying over moneys without reserving
            therefrom any indebtedness due, and Governor Baker answered that he knew of no moral or
            legal reason why the same should not be paid. As I have shown, this was, originally, an
            honest debt of the State of Indiana, and as these particular bonds had never been
            surrendered by the  United States, they were a just
            claim. Then it was certainly a moral obligation.
          The State of Indiana is a sovereign, and there is no way by which she can be compelled
            to pay her debts. The United States of America is likewise, and cannot be compelled to
            pay by legal process. If the State of Indiana should say that it is not her sovereign
            pleasure to pay her debts, and there is no law to compel her, the United States may
            throw herself upon her sovereignty and make the same declaration and there is no legal
            process to compell the payment. The Governor, when he said he saw no legal reason why
            these bonds should not be paid to the United States, meant this, and I think it beyond
            dispute that there was no process of law by which the State could legally compel the
            collection of the entire amount without at the same time, paying our bonds held by the
            United States against us. This, I understand, is what he means by saying that he was
            unable to discover any legal or moral obligation why the debt should not be paid.
          The State of Indiana had claims against the Government of the United States rising
            three millions and a half of dollars, while the bonds held by the United States against
            the State amounted to less than three hundred thousand dollars; and in order to arrive
            at a settlement and obtain the excess it was necessary to allow the set off. Why, this
            was a simple transaction as though between two private individuals, in which they have a
            claim against each other, and there is an offset to be counted in as far as it may go,
            if the party who owes the larger amount should say "If you agree to set off a smaller
            and joint claim, I will pay the balance," what would be more just honorable or
            legal?
          The Senator and myself seem to agree in one particular again, I will read from his
            preamble: [Mr. C. read the first preamble see page 21. He also read from Mr. Brown's
            introductory remarks--the first paragraph see page 74.]
          The Senator, like myself, seems to be of the opinion that some action is necessary to
            be taken. The Senator seems to have thought so and thought it necessary to introduce a
            resolution, and to make a most able, learned, and in many respects a most conclusive
            speech on the subject. I too, have heard some rumors, and the Governor has presented to
            us a memorial from these holders of canal certificates, asking some relief for them; and
            so the question seems to have gone beyond the point of a mere rumor. The Senator
            proposes a simple resolution that it is "unwise, impolitic and inexpedient." To that I
            agree. But I propose to go further. In 1857 there was a resolution proposed in this
            General Assembly identically similar in words and I believe it was adopted almost
            unanimously. So, if resolutions are of any effect, that resolution is still in force--it
            is still unrescinded and stands as an expression of opinion of the Legislature of 1857;
            yet the Senator does not seem to think that has decided the question. He seems to-think
            it still open. The Senator must be satisfied that it is necessary to resolve again; and
            after the force and effect of the adoption of this resolution shall have passed away, it
            will be necessary to resolve again on the same subject next session and again we will
            have this question brought before the Legislature in this shape.
          Instead of stopping at a resolution of the Senate or of the General Assembly which
            amounts to nothing but an expression of opinion and which at the next session can be
            undone, and which puts no check whatever upon legislation, I propose taking broad and
            deep ground, and declaring that while it would be unwise, impolitic and against the
            interest of the State to do so, instead of leaving it to the uncertainty of the future,
            and would now provide against it by the adoption of a constutional provision. Instead of
            a mere formal expression of opinion by the Legislature against the policy. I propose
            that we adopt a Constitutional amendment which will certainly cover the Senatorial
            ground. When presented to the people, if they adopt it, it forever sets at rest the
            matter. It will have to be referred to the next General Assembly and agreed to by them
            and then presented to the people, so there will be two years for its discussion when it
            can be fully canvassed upon the stump in its bearing.
          Mr. President, I believe I have covered the main portion of the ground except what is
            in, the Governor's Message and I believe it would be a work of supererogation to repeat
            that.
          A great portion of the bonds were discharged by the adjustment of 1847. Let us provide
            for the payment of the small amount yet unredeemed and by a constitutional provision
            prohibit the purchase of the canal without first submitting the question to the people,
            and then our debts will all be paid and the whole question be for ever at rest.
          Mr. HUGHES moved to amend--see p. 82.
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Wabash and Erie Canal--Debate in Continuation.
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            TUESDAY, January 17, 1871.
          
          
            [IN CONTINUATION--PAGE 99--BOTTOM OF THE FIRST COLUMN.]
          
          The concurrent resolution of Mr. Brown see page 21: the joint resolution of Mr. Caven
            see pages 27 and 28: the memorial from holders of certificates--see pages 65 and 66; and
            Mr. Hughes' amendment to Mr. Brown's resolutions--see pages 82 and 83being the special
            order--
          Mr. HUGHES said: I think there are but two courses to persue on this whole subject of
            the State debt; one is to take hold of it and investigate it, have it fully reported in
            an official form before the Senate and then take such action upon it as we may think
            expedient and proper, and the other is to postpone the subject and have nothing to do
            with it. I do not think, myself, that there is any middle ground we can occupy. I would
            like to see the matter go to the Committee of the Whole and be fully discussed if that
            is the pleasure of the Senate; otherwise I would be glad to have it distributed to
            appropriate standing Committees and let it there be investigated; otherwise I would be
            glad to see the Legislative business of the session relieved of the constant consumption
            of time and paper that would be necessary to do justice to this State debt question, and
            put it out of the way.
          I will move to indefinitely postpone all that portion of the special order except my
            own resolutions which I think are the best--I don't propose to introduce resolutions
            myself and then move to indefinitely postpone them. We had as well take the sense of the
            Senate now as to whether we are to investigate this question and vote or act upon it or
            not. It is not worth while to spend several days in its discussion and then say we will
            take no action. Either way will suit me, but I owe it to myself to say that I consider
            this matter of sufficient importance to require and demand investigation. I have made
            the motion for the purpose of ascertaining the sense of the Senate and for that purpose
            alone.
          I think the outstanding Internal Improvement bonds ought to be paid, if the amount is
            not too large. I suppose when it comes to the details we can provide by some new bonds
            or some other way in which the credit of the State can be maintained. I will put my
            motion in this shape as to the indefinite postponement of the memorial.
          Mr. GREEN. I am glad the senator proposes to divide the question. There is too much
            matter for us to postpone at this time. We have a very heavy grist in the mill in the
            way of resolutions and amendments on this subject. For one I am in favor of discussing
            the Wabash and Erie Canal question. It has been brewing for a long time; it is early in
            the session; it is now upon us, and I had just as leave settle it this session as at any
            other time. I would like to have a full discussion of the sesolutions of the senator
            from Jackson [Mr. Brown] as well as the amendments offered by the senator from Monroe
            [Mr. Hughes.] I concur in part of the resolutions of the senator from Jackson, and part
            of the amendments offered by the senator from Monroe, but I do not concur sufficient to
            vote for either proposition. I am in favor of keeping the matter up in order to dispose
            of it for this term. I do not see how we can get at any one of these questions on the
            motion to indefinitely postpone; I would rather see them come up up on their merits and
            have them voted up or down.  Hence I hope these
            things will not be hurried through.
          Mr. SARINGHAUSEN. Mr. President: I move that two hundred copies of the resolutions with
            reference to the Wabash and Erie Canal be printed with such amendments as may be
            offered.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR The motion is not in order pending a motion to indefinitely
            postpone.
          Mr. DWIGGINS. Mr. President, I submit that this proposition has been discussed for the
            last two years all over the State, through the public prints, on the stump, in these
            Legislative Halls, and I submit that it would be dangerous for this General Assembly to
            pass it over without some legislation, as we are informed that there is now a, suit
            pending for the purpose of foreclosing a lien for the payment of some outstanding bonds,
            thereby jeopardizing the sale of this Canal, with its tolls, &c. It strikes me that
            this question is of too much importance to the people of the State of Indiana to pass it
            over without being thoroughly investigated. I entirely concur with the senator from
            Monroe [Mr. Hughes] in favor of having a thorough investigation of the entire matter,
            but we will never get at an investigation by moving to indefinitely postpone. I hope the
            Senate will not vote to indefinitely postpone the memorial, the concurrent resolution,
            or this proposed Constitutional amendment, for the people of the State of Indiana, sir,
            demand that this Legislature should submit some kind of an amendment to the Constitution
            about this matter for them to vote on.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. Mr. President: While I voted for the reference of this memorial from
            the holders of the Canal scrip, to the Judiciary Committee as between
            the Committees to which it should be referred, I suggested at the time to senators the
            propriety of the indefinite postponement of that memorial. And I wish to say to the
            senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] that I will vote for that branch of his motion. I do so
            because I desire to treat with disrespect the memorialists and not because I desire to
            treat with any disrespect the Senate or Committee to which it was referred. All the
            subjects embraced in the memorial have been embrased in arguments, in messages and in
            Canal literature in the Legislature for the last four or five years. And upon that
            subject--that is the subject of the assumption of the Wabash and Erie Canal scrip, as
            contained in the memorial, I have said that my mind was made up and I think the mind of
            the Senate is made up and I did not wish to cast any vote that would treat the subject
            with seriousness.
          Now I wish to say with regard to the resolutions of the senator from Jackson [Mr.
            Brown] and the amendments offered by the Senator from Monroe, that a joint or concurrent
            resolution passed is no legislation. It is a simple expression of opinion of this
            General Assembly. It has no weight with any other co-ordinate branch of the government,
            nor with the people, and with due respect to the gentlemen who have introduced them I
            think they themselves will concede that although we may pass them they establish
            nothing, they are not conclusive, and I therefore think it unnecessary to consume the
            time of the Senate in discussing them, and in voting upon them; although I believe I
            would vote for most of the resolutions offered by the senator from Monroe. But there is
            one question involved in his resolution I am not so sure about, and that is the one
            directing the Governor to invest these bonds in the Canal scrip. I am not so sure but
            that would be in violation of legislation commonly known as the Butler bills. If so, I
            should be in favor of postponing them also.
          Then comes the other branch--the proposed Constitutional amendment. Is it possible that
            any senator upon this floor will obtain any light by the discussion of this subject? If
            it is and gentlemen desire it I will not object; but I conceive the only question
            involved in this matter is the phraseology of the Constitutional amendment itself. I
            believe every senator has his mind made up and is ready to vote upon the question aside
            from the question of phraseology.
          Mr. HUGHES. I will suggest a difficulty in the way. There are senators on both sides
            who entertain the opinion maintained in the speech made by the senator from Jackson. On
            the other hand other senators hold different views, and when it comes to passing a
            Constitutional amendment we have to make up our minds upon a grave and difficult
            question of law.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. This suggestion has nothing to do with it one way or another. The
            passage of the proposed Constitutional amendment does not affect the rights of these
            parties one way or another--they have not surrendered their Internal Improvement bonds,
            and the question whether the State owes them today cannot in any way be involved.
          Mr. HUGHES. The senator does not understand me; the Governor has paid a portion, and
            the question is, whether that is a violation of a contract.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. What has that got to do with the passage of the Constitutional
            amendment which declares that we will not pay a different class of bonds?
          Mr. HUGHES. The State is pledged not to pay the very bonds the Governor did pay.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. I take the position that the question, whether the State is liable for
            the Internal Improvement bonds or whether she should pay them, is a question foreign  to the adoption of a Constitutional amendment and
            has nothing to do with it. I think these Internal Improvement bonds stand upon a
            different basis from the Canal scrip, are not affected by the Constitutional amendment;
            and therefore it is not important that we understand the subject before we say by the
            Constitutional amendment we will not pay the scrip. I do not think the question can be
            made plainer as between the memorialists and the people of the State:--they came forward
            and sought an adjustment of the debt; the adjustment agreed upon was that they should
            take one-half the debt in scrip and the other one-half in bonds of the State which have
            since been paid. Now what has the State done?--What equity is there that the State
            should go into an investigation to know whether she should pay the other half of the
            debt which has been paid in a certain commodity at the solicitation of the creditors? I
            do not desire to set up a man of straw by putting into operation an investigation into a
            subject that I believe contains not an iota of merit.
          Mr. BROWN. Are you in favor of this State primarily assuming the payment of these
            outstanding, unsurrendered Internal Improvement bonds, principal and interest?
          Mr. MARTINDALE. As far as my own individual feeling on that subject is concerned, as
            suit has been brought against the State in Carroll county, I would be in favor of
            authorizing the Governor to defend that suit to the last Court. These parties who hold
            these Internal Improvement bonds not having participated in the arrangement made, I do
            not believe we could make a contract with other creditors that would bind them. The
            senator [Mr. Brown] made an able speech on this subject--I endorse much of it, but the
            idea that a debtor can call around him all his creditors but two or three and settle the
            debts of those two or three who don't come into the arrangement, is new to me.
          Mr. BROWN. There is not one line, syllable or letter in the speech I had the honor to
            deliver before the Senate, in which I took the ground that the State is not liable for
            the payment of the outstanding Internal Improvement bonds, but I expressly said that the
            State is liable for the payment, of every bond held by every person not a party to the
            contract of of 1846-7. My position is this in short; that the holders of the Wabash and
            Erie Canal are bound to protect themselves against these outstanding bonds. In the first
            instance they are to come to the State and have them sold under the Butler bills, the
            same as a man having a piece of property that is encumbered is bound to remove the
            incumbrance.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. I do not contravert the question. Unless in the transfer there is an
            agreement to assume and pay a prior incumbrance; then the obligation does not exist. The
            Indiana Central Canal, the Madison and Indianapolis Railroad and a large amount of other
            property is bound for the payment--
          Mr. BROWN (in his seat.) That has to be sold first.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. The party purchasing that property don't undertake to discharge the
            incumbrance. It is certanly due where there is no compromise with creditors that the
            State should meet them fairly.
          When the United States held our bonds she had the right as she did, to say to the State
            of Indiana, "I will not settle with you--will not pay you nearly one million of dollars
            until you adjust your one hundred and ninety bonds held by me for many years;" and I say
            that the taking up by Governor Baker of these bonds was simply a settlement--it was not
            a payment by Governor Baker of these bonds. There was so much due to the State of
            Indiana, and the General Government had passed a joint resolution that this settlement
            should not be made and nothing paid to the State until these bonds were adjusted. The
            Legislature was not in session; there was nearly a million of dollars tied up in this
            question; they bundled these bonds up and dispatched them to Indiapolis with the balance
            of the money due the State; and the Governor did nothing in this matter that would
            entitle him to censure. He has done right. What he has done has saved the State of
            Indiana over fifty thousand dollars. Making a calculation of the interest on these bonds
            from the time he redeemed them, and upon the interest of the debt due the State
            gentlemen will find it amounts to over fifty thousand dollars.
          Mr. BROWN. How much would the Governor have saved the State if he had adjusted them
            according to the Butler Bills?
          Mr. MARTINDALE. There was no authority given the Governor to adjust them. The General
            Government said: "We will surrender these bonds only at par." Governor Baker had no
            alternative but to leave the matter unadjusted or accept these bonds at par and in the
            manner the General Government offered to surrender them.
          Mr. BROWN. Does the senator pretend to say there was any law, resolution or authority
            conferred by the State, giving the Governor special power to make the settlement he did
            make?
          Mr. MARTINDALE. The gentleman is simply asking questions to get me doubly upon the
            record. I have stated there was no authority, and specially stated why he did it without
            authority of law. This debate has embraced three or four subjects while there is
            probably but the one question pending, to indefinitely postpone the memorial. I will
            vote to postpone the whole subject except the proposition for a Constitutional
            amendment. I  will not vote for the indefinite
            postponement of that and I advise senators not to.
          Mr. BROWN. The distinguished Senator from the Capital district [Mr. Martindale] is
            pleased to criticise me because I do not fully endorse the settlement, His Excellency
            made for some three hundred and twenty thousand dollars worth of Internal Improvement
            bonds, and is pleased to criticise the resolutions I had the honor to present to the
            Senate upon that subject, and yet, standing upon the floor of the Senate, and speaking
            with some deliberation and I judge considerable preparation he has confessed everything
            against His Excellency that the resolution recites against him. The Senator from Marion
            says the Governor made the settlement he did make without authority of law. That is all
            the resolution says. Then if he criticises that resolution, I hope, when his remarks are
            given to the country, in order that he may maintain a consistent position before his
            constituency, that he will repudiate his remarks here. But, Mr. President, the senator
            from Tipton [Mr. Green] is mistaken when toe says this memorial is the same presented ho
            the Legislature in 1857.
          Mr. GREEN. I did not say this was the same. This is probably abridged and improved a
            little.
          Mr. BROWN. I should think an abridgment of this question on the part of the bondholders
            would be an improvement of it. I am in favor of the postponement of this memorial and
            the senator from Marion [Mr. Martindale] upon that point expressed my sentiments and
            opinions. I do not desire to be understood as treating with discourtesy the memorial
            itself, or as intending discourtesy to those who have sent it here. The Constitution of
            our State allows the people to petition and that carries with it and enjoins the duty
            upon the General Assembly to treat petitions with due consideration and respect. This
            memorial in my judgment has received all due consideration and the respect to which it
            is entitled. It came here several days ago, has been placed upon the desks of Senators
            and I have no doubt every Senator in the Chamber has read it, There is nothing new in
            this memorial; there is no reason assigned in it in addition to those assigned in the
            memorial presented in 1857. The only reason stated in this memorial why the General
            Assembly should redeem the Wabash and Erie Canal and involve this people in a public
            debt of somewhere between fifteen and eighteen million of dollars is the old cry of the
            incorporation of Railroad companies--the permission of Railroad companies to incorporate
            under the laws of Indiana. The memorial of 1857 makes a better defence for the General
            Assembly of the State which authorized incorporated Railways than it lies in my poor
            mouth to make.
          I do not desire, for one, to give this memorial any further consideration than
            necessary to come up to the performance of that duty which is incumbent upon me to treat
            it with courtesy and respect; because it is not unfrequently the case when desiring to
            accomplish a wrongful purpose, those who desire the accomplishment of it, approach the
            party they seek to have the accomplishment of it brought about by, in peace meals;
            gently at first; easily in the commencement; showing but little of their scheme at
            first; giving but little vantage ground in the commencement; driving their stake down
            not so deep in the start; seeking to get a simple foothold in the commencement only; but
            finally the time comes when they can walk in triumph. That is what these invidious men
            are seeking to do with the Indiana Legislature.
          Now that is the earnest desire of these men that are crying out with such denunciation
            against the faith and honor of Indianathey seek to beguile the Legislature little by
            little, until they have bombarded us into a surrender. For one, I shall never consent to
            give one inch of ground to the importunities of these men that have no just or equitable
            claim upon the State in my judgment. They said they would take the Wabash and Erie Canal
            for one-half the debt and I say let them keep it for one-half the debt--the other half
            the State has paid.
          As the only question before the Senate is upon this memorial I shall say nothing upon
            the subject so fully gone into by the senators from Monroe and Marion, except that I
            desire to say I hope the whole subject will not be postponed, because I do not think we
            can do justice to our own sentiments and opinions upon a mere motion to postpone. I have
            some reasons for favoring a Constitutional amendment which I desire at the proper time
            to give to the Senate.
          Mr. HUGHES. While I am going to vote for indefinite postponement, at the same time I
            must say that I am not in favor of repudiating the old Internal Improvement bonds, and
            thereby lay the foundation for this claim on the part of these petitioners.
          Mr. BROWN. Neither am I.
          Mr. HUGHES. I am opposed to your last resolution because it amounts to a repudiation of
            those bonds and may lay a foundation for a just claim.
          Mr. BROWN. That is a question of law. The bonds are charged on the Wabash and Erie
            Canal.
          Mr. GRAY. I fully concur with the senator from Jasper [Mr. Dwiggins] that this thing
            has been sufficiently discussed. If there is anything in the world the holders of the
            Canal certificates are not afraid of, it is buncombe speeches in this Chamber. They
            don't care a straw for them. I am willing to say that my  mind is fully made up on the question. I am going to vote
            for a Constitutional amendment in favor of prohibiting future Legislatures from paying
            these bonds except under the provision made in the Butler bills. I believe, however, the
            State ought to pay the old Internal Improvement bonds that were not settled under this
            adjustment.
          I have no desire to make a speech upon this matter, but I shall if the discussion is
            continued, and when I take part in the debate, I hope to be able to take exceptions to
            many of the assumptions the senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown] made in regard to the old
            Internal Improvement bonds not settled in the adjustment. The senator said all the
            creditors assented to it. If he can give any evidence that holders not represented in
            that adjustment ever did assent either in person or by agent, I am with the senator and
            opposed to paying them off.
          It is hardly worth while for us to talk of violating the Butler bills. Prior to 1867,
            the sinking fund had invested in various bonds among them eight thousand old Internal
            Improvement bonds, and the Legislature took these bonds and sold them and put them into
            one non-negotiable bond, thereby recognizing the validity of these eight old Internal
            Improvement bonds as being equitable and just, and paid the interest on them. They
            acknowledged them as valid claims upon the State for the purpose of schooling our
            children, and I know no difference between those eight and the other outstanding
            bonds.
          I hope the Senate will indefinitely postpone the memorial and the resolution of the
            senator from Jackson and all that part of the amendment offered by the senator from
            Monroe, except that which says we will provide for the payment of the old Internal
            Improvement bonds; then I propose to vote for the Constitutional amendment. If these
            motions do not prevail I shall take it as an indication that we are to go into a
            discussion of the whole matter, and I shall then take part in it.
          Mr. ROSEBRUGH. Mr. President: I desire to say a few words on this question. It seems to
            me the principal difficulty that arises from this transaction is this: we have devided
            the subject matter, and got it before the Senate in various forms; for instance, it is
            first here upon the prayer of the memorialists, secondly upon the resolution of the
            senator from Jackson, and thirdly, upon the amendment of the distinguished senator from
            Monroe. I apprehend the Senate desires to act advisedly upon the question; that is,
            simply, we do not wish to rush through legislation and act unadvisedly upon the
            question, but we desire to place upon the records of the Senate a complete justification
            of our action.
          It seems to me it does not make much difference as to the subject matter, whether it
            comes upon the memorial presented, or whether upon the resolution introduced by the
            senator from Jackson, or whether upon the Constitutional amendment proposed by the
            senator from Marion [Mr. Caven.] In each and every case the same substantial proposition
            arises and is to be discussed and settled by the action of the body. The memoralists
            claim they are entitled to remuneration on two grounds; first, on account of internal
            improvements, and second, on the ground that parties who hold the old original Canal
            bonds have been paid and for that reason that all the creditors of the State should be
            treated equitably.
          What I desire to state is this: it is a judicial question whether we take it upon the
            memorial, the resolution of the senator from Jackson or the proposed Constitutional
            amendment. And being a judicial question, upon which there is scarcely one opinion
            entertained with reference to the precise question by any two senators, I insist that it
            is emminently proper for the Senate, under such circumstances, to refer it to an
            appropriate Committee--and it makes no difference whether you refer upon the memorial of
            the bond holders; although if referred upon that we may be giving them some little
            distinction;or whether the reference of the subject is made upon the resolutions. Then
            upon this ground, inasmuch as it is a judicial question as to whether the payment by the
            State without process of law, that is without, a judgment of Court, of these old
            bonds--these Internal Improvement bonds; as it is a judicial question, whether a
            voluntary payment by the State will raise any obligation on the part of the State to pay
            those who entered into the Butler bill arrangement; for that reason, and that alone I
            desire this matter be referred to the proper Committee, where it was first placed upon
            the motion, I believe, of the senator from Marion, and there carefully and judicially
            investigated.
          I apprehend no gentleman desires to evade any responsibility which rests upon him; I
            apprehend every gentleman desires to do justice to the State and to all parties
            concerned; and at the same time Mr. President, I apprehend we are not here simply
            legislating to suit the sentiments of the hour. This matter is part of the history of
            the State of Indiana. We are legislating not for ourselves; and I desire that we should
            proceed with that firmness in the investigation which shall reflect credit upon the
            State and do justice to all. I desire such an investigation had and such a memorial left
            in the annals and archives of the State as may be an everlasting monument to the justice
            and wisdom of this Legislature.
          For these reasons I am opposed to the indefinite postponement of this resolution, and I
               am in favor of referring the matter back to the
              Judiciary Committee for investigation. And I think within the
            limits of the present session it ought to be reported back and some legislation put
            through by this General Assembly which will conclusively and eternally settle the matter
            in controversy.
          Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President: When this memorial was presented I, myself, moved its
            reference to the Judiciary Committee, and not the senator from
            Marion. With all his sins I do not wish him to bear mine, although I would like to get
            rid of all I can. How it happened I cannot say, but I hope I shall not be ostracised for
            that simple fact. While up I wish to say I believe that is the proper place for this
            thing. It is impossible for us to say we will have nothing to do with that subject. It
            is too large a matter to be slipped over in that kind of style. I believe I do not know
            much about the men who hold these bonds, but I believe they are in earnest. I saw their
            petition in 1857, and they talk as though they have some reason to petition, whether
            they have or not. Whether they have or not is a matter for investigation, and a matter
            of serious import.
          As far as I am concerned I am not willing to leave it wholly to newspapers because at
            some time it must be determined, I insist it cannot be wholly determined by a
            Constitutional amendment; at least I am not so informed that I would be willing to risk
            that thing entirely upon that point. Therefore I wish it investigated not on account of
            the petitioners but on account of the people of the State who are interested. Upon the
            Constitutional amendment I am not now prepared to vote. Although that matter has been
            before the people for nearly three years, I have not had an opportunity of satisfying my
            mind of the correctness of that thing, although I intend to vote for it. I did oppose it
            two years ago but I intend to vote for it now whenever it comes before this body; but I
            do not wish it to come now, because I would like to have my mind better prepared than
            now. I want to hear from learned Senators the effect of that Constitutional amendment
            before I vote for it. It is an expression of the desire of this State on the question of
            the redemption which is provided for in the Butler bills. That expression may as well be
            by simple resolution or enactment as by a Constitutional amendment; and the only thing
            that troubles my mind is whether it does not surrender to the bond holders the entire
            control of the Canal from the beginning. It is a very serious question in my mind
            whether it may not withdraw that controling power the State has and leave them absolute
            owners and controlers. If members upon the floor interested along the line of that Canal
            are willing now to take the plunge; I, myself, living where it has become nothing but a
            mark in the sand may well take it; for I look in a great measure to them, they being
            more interested. All we wish to provide against, as far as my people are concerned, is
            that they never shall be liable to pay the Canal certificates which they are not liable
            for, in my judgment, unless this or some other legislative body shall provide by law for
            that thing. Therefore, for these reasons, I am opposed now pressing action on the
            Constitutional amendment. I prefer its reference to the law Committee of this body and
            if they say it is proper and safe I shall vote for it. It they say it is not proper and
            safe I shall still vote for it because I know the people want it--I know the people
            demand it and I am determined to vote for it in some shape.
          Now, Mr. President, as far as the resolutions of the Senator from Jackson are
            concerned, I have no objection to their indefinite postponement if they will not carry
            with them the amendments of the Senator from Monroe.
          Mr. HOOPER. Mr President: There seems to be a disposition on the part of the Senate to
            investigate this question which I believe to be right. I desire to say that while it may
            be true that most of us have made up our minds on the question of this memorial and know
            precisely how we will vote upon it--and believe there is really nothing ,in it and that
            the memorialists have no case--yet if we propose to investigate this question at all, I
            think this memorial ought to go with the other matter to the committee which is to have
            charge of it. We can not satisfy the people by refusing to meet a question presented to
            us. If this is a question of so much importance and there is so much anxiety about which
            we all know to be true, I say this memorial ought to be met and ought to be answered. I
            believe we ought to settle the whole question, if posible, this session so there may be
            a definite line of action settled with regard to the whole matter. For that reason I
            shall vote against the indefinite postponement of the memorial.
          Mr. JOHNSTON. Mr. President: I represent a people who feel a great interest in the
            subject of taking back, as it is termed, the Wabash and Erie Canal. My constituents
            believe the State adjusted that claim, and paid one half of the debt with the Canal
            according to contract and that being done we think the holders of this Canal ought to
            abide by it. I, sir, have read the memorial; and, by the way I want to remark that the
            payment of the outstanding bonds is not included. As I understand it, it is simply a
            memorial of the stock holders of the Wabash and Erie Canal at the present time.
            Senators, I presume, are well acquainted with the transaction although it has been a
            long time since. The bondholders came voluntarially and asked the Legislature to make
            this arrangement; if the State  would surrender the
            Wabash and Erie Canal with all its appurtenances it should be in payment of one half the
            debt, and upon their statement that they represented the bondholders the State went into
            the arrangement and the contract was made. In this memorial they State that the
            bondholders held meetings both in the United States and in Europe and agreed to certain
            things, and the contract was made. While Indiana was in debt to these bondholders they
            sent their represenatives for the purpose of making a contract and whether or no they
            were all represented is not for us to stop to inquire. They said they were representing
            the entire bondholders--the contract was made, and no man that didn't consent to that
            contract came here and objected to it. That contract was made in good faith on both
            sides and now the question before the Senate is as to this memorial.
          From whence comes this memorial? It comes from men holding stock in the Wabash and Erie
            Canal. They urge the State to rescind the contract, take back the Canal and pay the
            bonds they have surrendered as part of the contract with the Slate. The question is
            whether we shall indefinitely postpone this memorial or not? I imagine Senators are
            satisfied as to the justice of this memorial. I for one am ready and willing to vote
            upon it. I read the memorial before I left home and came to my conclusions upon it, and
            my opinion is not changed. I am ready to vote for its indefinite postponement because I
            think they have no claims upon us and that they have no right to come here and urge us
            to rescind a contract they themselves made.
          Mr. HAMILTON. Mr. President: I have no disposition to make a speech upon this subject?
            The question is now upon the simple proposition: What is the most judicious way of
            disposing of this memorial? I think I have arrived at the correct conclusion that the
            memorialists have no just claims, and that seems to be the only opinion. And now is it
            best to say that we will return it to the committee and let an answer go upon our
            journals? If my constituents thought I would vote to pay ihis claim they would wait upon
            me and ask me to resign.
          While I concur with the Senator from Montgomery [Mr. Johnston] as far as not paying
            this claim is concerned, I disagree as to the manner in which this Senate should express
            itself upon the subject. I concur in the views of the Senator from Whitley [Mr. Hooper]
            to send this matter to a Committee, let the Committee investigate it and then the matter
            would be settled and the memorialists will not come here again. We are said to be
            repudiators; and to abruptly set this matter aside and not investigate it will only
            furnish another pretext for the journals across the waters to say we are repudiators.
            Let us so settle this matter that the memorialists will never bother the Legislature
            again. Consequently, from these considerations, I shall vote against the indefinite
            postponement of this memorial.
          Mr. GREGG. Mr. President: I shall vote for this motion, and I propose to give my
            reasons briefly. Before I came up here I received a memorial from these parties, which I
            hold in my hand. I investigated it and I found it was a memorial pretty much the same as
            that presented to the Legislature of 1857. I then investigated the proceeding of the
            Legislature of 1857, as to what it had done with regard to the prayer of these
            memorialists. I found that the Legislature had taken the whole case into consideration
            and had passed on it; and I believed that was enough for these gentlemen. I believe they
            have had their day. They had their claims duly, honestly and fairly considered, and I am
            ready to vote for the indefinite postponement of this memorial, and with that vote I
            shall aim to stop their propositions. I vote with that view, for the simple reason that
            they have been once before the Legislature of the State of Indiana, and the Legislature
            of 1857, duly and fully considered all their claims and passed upon them, and that
            record is my record to-day. I think they ought to be content with the consideration they
            have received.
          The motion to indefinitely postpone the memorial was then agreed to.
          Mr. HADLEY. I desire to strike from the resolution of the Senator from Jackson that
            part which states that the payment by the Governor of these old bonds was in direct
            violation of the acts of 1846-7, and meets with the disapproval of the General Assembly.
            It has been stated by the Senator from Randolph [Mr. Gray] that in 1867 this Senate, and
            a large majority in the House of Representatives, expressly provided for the payment of
            eight of these bonds in the possession of the School Fund Commissioners, and for us to
            say to-day, by solemn legislative act that it was in direct violation of law, would be
            to reverse our record. And it does not evince any great degree of modesty for us to say
            when these old bonds are held in trust for the education of our own children they should
            be paid, while on the other hand when they are held in trust for the education of Indian
            children they should not be paid. It seems to me that would he repudiation in its worst
            shape.
          Then I wish to provide for the destruction of these old bonds and coupons, rather than
            encumber the archives of the State with them without the hope of obtaining any benefit
            from them. By the 15th section of the act of 1847, it is provided that the State on
            coming into possession of any of these old bonds shall hold them upon the same terms as
            other creditors--shall be entitled to their pro rata interest in the
            rents of the Canal. Now, while it is provided that the State shall hold the bonds it is
            not  made the imperative duty of the State to hold
            them, but in her discretion, she may destroy them. And now this being legitimate under
            the enactment of the Butler Bills, it occurs to me it would be prudent to destroy these
            bonds rather than encumber the archives with them. I am informed that the probabilities
            are that some ten or a dozen coupons of the old bonds are already stolen--nobody knows
            where they are. If we keep these bonds in the hands of the Governor or the Treasurer of
            State they may be stolen and forty years hence be presented for payment. While there is
            no probability of ever receiving any profit from these bonds, why not destroy them? I
            offer the following amendments to the amendment of the Senator from Monroe: [Sae page
            99--top of second column.]
          [They were laid on the table by yeas 27, nays 17--see pages 99 and 100.]
          Mr. DWIGGINS. Mr. President: I offer the following substitute for the resolutions of
            the Senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown] and the pending amendments. [This substitute is
            printed on page 100.] I propose to substantially adopt the preamble offered by the
            Senator from Jackson except his last whereas, for that is simply condemning Governor
            Baker for taking from the United States the bonds referred to and allowing for them
            payment of war claims. Now, sir, it seems to me folly if I appoint an agent and
            authorize him to do certain things and in the discharge of that agency he does
            something, whether authorized or not, just exactly as I would have done had I been
            present, to blame him for doing so. He does that which I approve, and when he reports to
            me I say, "Sir, I gave you no authority to do that notwithstanding I approve of what you
            have done." For myself I approve of the action of Governor Baker for several
            reasons.
          There can be no question, sir, in my mind, as to the legal and moral responsibility of
            the State for the payment of these bonds. If the State is liable for their payment and
            the bonds were due, as they were, then it was the duty not only the privilege, but the
            duty of the Governor when he had the means to redeem the indebtedness of the State, and
            pay off the obligation of the State which had long since been due, whether there was law
            for it or not. Why is it necessary to pass a preamble and resolution condemning the
            action of the Governor and then in another resolutions approve what he has done? The
            Senator from Monroe adopts the preamble and part of the second resolution, and thereby
            condemns the action of the Governor in the payment of these bonds, while in the third
            resolution he says the General Assembly will make provision for the payment of these
            bonds, thereby recognizing the legal and moral obligation of the State for the payment
            of these bonds. I hold that the Governor has done what is right and what the State is
            bound in honor to do--then why say the Governor had no authority of law to do it
            notwithstanding we approve it? Why in the first place condemn, and in the second place
            approve?
          It matters not whether there was authority of law or not so he did what was for the
            best interests of the State. That is the question for this General Assembly to
            determine, and I want Senators to come square up to it and if they take the ground that
            the State is not liable for the payment of these bonds; then, sir, Senators can well
            condemn the action of the Governor in paying the bonds; but if we are liable--if the
            State is bound to pay them, why condemn the Governor if he done precisely what the State
            was bound to do?
          Now it is said by some Senators, that there is no question in their minds of the legal
            liability of the State to pay the bonds not surrendered under the Butler Bills, but they
            are not willing the Legislature shall pass an act to pay these bonds until the parties
            holding them have succeeded in defeating the State in a law suit. I claim that is quasi repudiation. It is saying "we know we owe you this money--we are
            legally liable to pay it, but never will until you law it through." What is the sense,
            reason or justice in the State expending five or ten thousand dollars in Attorney's
            fees, and in the end doing what Senators say we are bound to do now? Why not do right
            without being compelled to do it?
          Now sir, I apprehend there is no question plainer to any lawyer than the proposition
            that the State of Indiana is legally liable to pay the bonds that have not been
            surrendered under the Butler bills. Mr. Butler said in his correspondence with the
            Governor, that he was not authorized to represent all the bondholders. He expressly so
            stated, but stated that he represented a large majority. After the Butler bills were
            passed it was an optional question with those not represented to come in and surrender
            their bonds or not. Suppose I am largely in debt, and I go to certain of my creditors
            and say, "Here, I turn this property out to you if you will give me a receipt for all I
            owe you." They think it the best they can ever get and they accept, but some gentleman
            does not and a while after he comes forward and says "sir I hold your obligation and I
            want you to pay me the money." I say to him "I made an arrangement by which I
            transferred my property to my creditors, but you did not see proper to come in; and I
            don't propose to pay you a dollar." Now is there a lawyer upon this floor would say I
            was not legally liable to pay this claim? Shall not the State of Indiana keep faith? The
            State will compel an individual to keep faith with his creditors.

          

          I claim that there is no proposition clearer than the proposition that we are legally
            liable and morally bound to pay the bonds not surrendered under the Butler bills.
          Mr. HUGHES would accept a portion of the substitute.
          Mr. DWIGGINS. It will not do for us to allow the canal to be sold if thereby we would
            violate our contract made under the act of 1847. I cannot see any reason why we should
            allow it either. If we owe bonds we owe them, and if they are due we should pay them. I
            don't see any reason why this session of the Legislature should seek to avoid the
            responsibility of making provision for the payment of these bonds. I do not desire that
            the matter should be rushed through. It has been said that the passage of these
            resolutions would amount to nothing. That is true, but in order that we may arrive at
            the kind of bill we want it is as well to discuss the proposition upon these resolutions
            as upon a bill.
          I apprehend that a majority of the Senate, perhaps all, are agreed upon one provision,
            and that is, that the State does not owe these Canal certificates, and I apprehend that
            a large majority are agreed upon another; that the State is legally liable for the
            payment of these bonds not surrendered under the Butler Bills. The question to be
            discussed is, the manner of arriving at what we all desire.
          Mr. BROWN. The Senator from Jasper [Mr. Dwiggins] says, if we owe these bonds why not
            come up at once, and pay them? For the best reason in the world. While I concede that
            there is a liability on the part of the State to pay every unsurrendered improvement
            bond under the act of 1846-7, I must say more than that; that by a learned decision of
            the Supreme Court of the United States, the revenue, lands and proceeds of the Wabash
            and Erie Canal are also liable for the payment of these bonds. The law of 1836,
            expressly makes the State a guarantor and not primarily liable. Then when the creditor
            has selected which one of the remedies he will pursue instead of coming here and asking
            us to make good plighted faith,only plighted as guarantor, I ask whether wise
            statesmanship, economy for the people and an earnest desire to keep ourselves out of the
            clutches of these men, would step in and tell their creditors "Give up your own choice
            and we will pay the money in the first instance." There is where the gentleman has
            placed himself. The only proper course for the true friend of the people of Indiana, is
            to stand by the contracts of 1846-7.
          Now Mr. President, the learned Senator put another question with considerable emphasis.
            He said: "Why is it you don't pay the Internal Improvement bonds now? If the State owes
            them why don't you pay them?" That was pat to the whole Senate. He assumes in the first
            place, a proposition that is incorrect, which is that the State is primarily liable, and
            couples with it an interrogatory to the whole Senate. I would answer him out of the
            mouth of the Governor he stood up here and attempted to defend. Here it is: [Mr. B.
            read: "I would unhesitatingly recommend that provision be made" &c.--see top of page
            9 suffix to volume X BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.]
          Mr. DWIGGINS. Do you endorse that and make it your own statement?
          Mr. BROWN. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. I will ask the Senator if he
            endorses that? I will come the yankee on him.
          Mr. DWIGGINS. I will give the same answer.
          Mr. BROWN. No matter what my opinion is, this Senate two years ago adopted the very
            policy and plan I am now advocating; that was that no provision would be made for the
            payment of these unsurrendered bonds. The Senator has made a new discovery when he says
            these bonds must now be paid. The Senator has not read all the messages of His
            Excellency; he has not pursued His Excellency in his circuitous routes on the Wabash and
            Erie Canal question; and in my judgment the last message, if acted upon favorably, is
            very dangerous conduct for the General Assembly of the State of Indiana to adopt. There
            was a solemn contract made between the State and those who entered into the compact, and
            I say here in my place upon the floor of the Senate that if that provision is broken--if
            the State voluntarily pays these bonds in any manner other than the manner solemnly
            pleged, it breaks the whole contract and restores these men to the position they
            occupied before these funded debt bills of 1846-7 were passed.
          I may not be so learned as the gentleman over the way, but it seems to me that when two
            parties agree as far as they are concerned, that they will carry out a transaction in
            one particular way, when one party breaks it, it manumits the other. For that reason I
            think a voluntary payment of these Internal Improvement bonds will do more to raise a
            strong equitable claim in favor of the holders of the canal stocks than any possible
            measure this General Assembly will pass.
          Mr. GRAY. I desire to ask what the Senator means, when he said in his speech the other
            day, that the settlement under the Butler Bills paid one half of the debt?
          Mr. BROWN. Not to recapitulate what I said on that subject my idea is this;and if I err
            in the opinion, I err with some illustrious gentlemenwhen these creditors took the
            Wabash and Erie Canal and its eight hundred thousand acres of land, they took it in
            absolute payment and discharge of the whole debt. If you examine the first four sections
            of the  acts of 1846-7, in my judgment, you can
            place no other construction upon it.
          Mr. HUGHES. Suppose the State pays off some of these bonds, gentlemen say there is a
            breach of contract; and suppose it is; if it is, it does not give them a claim upon the
            State, because it is a case of a wrong without any injury. Every bond the State pays off
            enhances the value of the present stock that much--one half--and is a benefit beyond a
            question to the present holders of the canal. Now how much damage could be recovered by
            a suit at law for any kind of an injury?
          Mr. GRAY read from Mr. Brown's speech, the paragraph commencing, "It seems to me clear
            that"see top of second column, page 385.
          Mr. BROWN. I say so now, sir. But the first question the Senator put was, whether the
            transfer of the property paid one half the whole debt. You say, as I understood, that it
            paid one half of the surrendered debt.
          Mr. GRAY. Yes sir.
          Mr. BROWN. Governor Baker says this: [Mr. B. read the paragraph commencing, "The
            adjustment made"--see page 9 of the suffix to volume X BREVIER REPORTS.]
          Mr. GRAY. That is the debt surrendered.
          Mr. BROWN. It don't say so. It says one half the debt. What do the words "the debt"
            mean Mr. President? It says one half the debt. What was His Excellency talking about?
            Was he talking about five or ten bonds? No sir, he was talking about the public debt
            Indiana owed in 1846-7. He said one half the debt was paid.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. If he will read it again the Senator will find Governor Baker refers to
            one half the surrendered debt.
          Mr. BROWN. I have read all he says upon the subject. This is the first time in the
            State of Indiana the question, has been mooted that the transfer did not discharge the
            State from liability to pay one half the debt. It never was mooted until after His
            Excellency, unauthorized by any law of the State, stepped outside of his duties and paid
            off some three hundred thousand dollars of these bonds: and thereupon we find the
            holders memorializing the State to take back the Wabash and Erie Canal, and His
            Excellency in doing what he did did much to encourage these gentlemen; and his act is
            followed up by Senators on this floor saying that the transfer of the Wabash and Erie
            Canal paid one half of the bonds surrendered and not one half the whole debt. The
            compromise of 1846-7 was made upon the understanding of the law of 1836, I put upon
            it--that was that the Canal was to be ex-exhausted before the State was touched. I lay
            the maxim down that the Wabash and Erie Canal must take up the Internal Improvement
            bonds and then comes in the State of Indiana, to have them adjusted according to the
            contract of 1846-7. While if I don't mistake the position of the Senator from Monroe he
            thinks we should take them up and then have them adjusted. That is the difference
            between us. I would not enforce my opinions without considerable hesitancy against the
            Senator but in a case of doubt I desire to give the State the benefit of the doubt.
          The State is too high to be damaged by the cry of repudiation made upon her because she
            desires her creditors to keep the faith of 1846-7. The State has lived in spite of the
            cry, and will continue to live until the echo dies away, and those who gave sound to it
            have gone out of the minds of the public. The action and conduct of these creditors of
            the State give conclusive interpretation as to the meaning of the statute, and there is
            not one of them pretended to say this Wabash and Erie Canal did not pay one half of this
            whole debt. Even if the technical construction of the law of 1846 might bear out the
            opinion expressed by the Senator from Randolph [Mr. Gray] that construction is
            overthrown by the contemporaneous history of the State and her creditors, and that
            history is that the transfer was a discharge of the debt.
          Mr. SCOTT. Why has the State paid interest on these outstanding old Internal
            Improvement bonds to the United States for the last twenty years?
          Mr. BROWN. Simply because she had her hand in the lion's mouth.
          Mr. SCOTT. Did the State ever protest against the payment?
          Mr. BROWN. I don't know. I will ask the Senator, has the State paid one dollar of
            interest on these bonds to individual holders?
          Mr. SCOTT. Yes sir. She paid eight of these bonds amounting to eight thousand dollars
            to the School Fund.
          Mr. BROWN. By the radical Legislature of 1867. I repudiate the act.
          Mr. SCOTT. Does that repudiate the law Mr. President?
          Mr. BROWN. That is not an answer to the question. I repeat it again: Has she ever paid
            interest to an individual holder of the internal Improvement bonds?
          Mr. SCOTT. I dont know that she has.
          Mr. BROWN. I know she has not.
          Mr. SCOTT--
          Mr. BROWN. I cannot give way further.
          Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President he has asked me a question.
          Mr. BROWN. I take back that.
          Mr. SCOTT. I don't want to answer it, sir. [Laughter.]
          Mr. BROWN. From 1846, after the adoption of the Butler bills, to the present day, there
            has not been an individual holder of the Internal Improvement stocks of our State that
            has ever received a dollar's interest upon these 
            bonds, not one; and if it was just that the school fund and the General Government
            should receive their interest upon these bonds I think it has been bad management upon
            the part of the public servants that they have not paid individual holders.
          But as my friend has called up the act of 1857 as showing the history of the progress
            of the times upon the subject, I can give him another item. After the passage of the act
            of 1857, and after the settlement made by Governor Baker, eight of these bonds held by
            private citizens were presented for payment perhaps they were presented for payment
            because of the action of His Excellency and the legislation of 1867but what was the fate
            these individual holders met with, when they offered their bonds? They were sent to the
            State agency, the bonds were laid upon the block, the executioner's axe was applied and
            the holders sent away with one half. If he insists on the law of 1857 as a precedent for
            the payment of these bonds, I will put the precedent I have cited side by side with
            it.
          Mr. GLESSNER, made an ineffectual motion--see bottom of first column page 100.
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Wabash and Erie Canal--The Burson and Kline Contested Election
          Case--Debate in Continuation.
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            WEDNESDAY, January 18, 1871.
          
          
            [IN CONTINUATION FROM THE BOTTOM OF FIRST COLUMN
                PAGE 107.]
          
          Mr. CAVEN. Mr. President: I do not propose to enter into a general discussion of the
            merits of the proposition before the Senate for I think it has been well and fairly
            discussed at least I have said all I desire to upon it. But inasmuch as the status of
            the question has been changed it might be proper to discuss this division and explain
            wherein the proposed Constitutional amendment [see pages 27 and 28] has merits greater
            than the substitute just proposed by the Senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown see page
            107.]
          The difference in the main between the Senator from Jackson and myself is that I
            provide for an act of legislation to be passed upon by this General Assembly, looking to
            the redemption of these certificates and the purchase of the canal but it shall not be
            approved until submitted to a vote of the qualified voters of the State. I am prepared
            to believe there never would a contingency arise when the State would take back the
            canal by the payment of the present outstanding canal certificates amounting to eighteen
            million or odd; but the holders of certificates might be willing to transfer the the
            canal for some certain sum which might be agreed upon between usone hundred thousand
            dollars fifty thousand dollars, or any smaller or greater sum the State might be willing
            to say.
          It might not be desirable to have our public works held by foreign bondholders, but if
            the amendment proposed by the Senator from Jackson were adopted we never could purchase
            that canal if it were offered, for no difference how triffling a sum. I simply propose
            by my amendment to retain that option; and I propose simply to define how that option
            shall be exercised--not to abandon it. I propose to guard against legislative
            corruption--to guard against this question being sprung upon the people suddenly. If a
            proposition should come before us for the purchase of this canal which the people upon a
            vote should say was desirable I would prefer not to cut off an opportunity to accept it.
            The amendment proposed by myself would cost no more to the people than the other, and it
            preserves to the people a right that may be desirable in a contingency that may arise,
            and if the contingency should never arise it never can possibly do a harm that the
            substitute would not, while it might be a benefit to the State.
          In dealing with the future we are always dealing with a great uncertainty, and the
            history of this canal is an example of that. When the transfer of this canal was made to
            the Trustees for the benefit of the bondholders what great expectancies were entertained
            and they were almost a total failure. From the history of the canal it would seem that
            it would not be desirable to purchase it, but as we can retain this option without
            disadvantage, it seems to me desirable to do so. Then if we ever desire to purchase it,
            it would be in our option to do so, and if not desirable, of course we never will make
            the purchase.
          Mr. BROWN. I desire simply to say a word in reference to this amendment and only a
            word. By the introduction of this substitute I do not desire to be considered as having
            changed my opinion that there is already a sufficient prohibition in the Constitution
            against the General Assembly taking back the Wabash and Erie Canal, or rather assuming a
            debt for the purpose of paying the outstanding canal bonds, because I am yet of the
            opinion  that the Constitution expressly prohibits
            the Legislature from doing such a thing. But if at the same time there should happen to
            be a half million or a million in the State who desire it, I think there is nothing in
            the Constitution that would prohibit the General Assembly from appropriating monies on
            hand to the payment of these canal bonds, should the General Assembly desire to do so;
            and therefore there is no impropriety in adopting a Constitutional amendment containing
            a prohibition in the language I have submitted to the Senate.
          I do not think, Mr. President, there is much danger that the General Assembly of the
            State ever would appropriate money; or, if there was no Constitutional prohibition, that
            it ever would take back the Wabash and Erie Canal; but inasmuch as the subject has been
            brought to considerable public notice, and inasmuch as parties who are interested in
            canal stocks are continually importuning the Legislature of the State, I see no
            impropriety in the General Assembly, settling the question at once in order that the
            General Assembly as well the people, may be put at rest upon this subject. That is the
            reason why I have offered this amendment, and I desire it shall be adopted.
          Now the Senator from Marion [Mr. Caven] says if my amendment is adopted that relieves
            the State of any right the State may have to redeem the Wabash and Erie Canal. I concede
            that to be true. That is one of the objects I had in view when I offered the amendment.
            I hope the State will relinquish any right she may now have to redeem the Wabash and
            Erie Canal and get that question out of the way: because the fact that the State has the
            right to redeem the canal is dwelt upon by some who desire the State shall redeem it as
            a reason why she should.
          Now in 1846-7 when these parties took the Canal they were anxious to get it, and the
            right of the State to redeem the Canal was only incorporated to please some gentlemen
            who had not then fully made up their minds that the Internal Improvement system was a
            failure. They still hoped some good might come out of it, and if any good did come out
            of it, inasmuch as the State was the primary mover, they thought the State should have
            any benefit the State could obtain by redemption in 20 years. That twenty years have
            expired, and it is now for the State to say whether she will or will not redeem it, and
            I think the Senator over the way will agree in saying it is utterly out of the question
            because she cannot redeem it unless she pays off the bonds, the payment of which are
            charged upon the canal. And with the interest continually accruing it is fair to presume
            no General Assembly ever would be as reckless to the people as to assume the payment of
            their bonds for the privilege exercising the right of redemption by the State; and why
            not settle this question at once.
          The only difference between the amendment proposed by the Senator from Marion [Mr.
            Caven] and mine, as he has very well stated in the prohibition against the right or
            power of the Legislature to take back the Wabash and Erie Canal or provide for the
            payment of the canal bonds without refering the question to the people at all; while his
            proposes that the Legislature may pass a law providing for the redemption of the canal,
            and the payment of the stocks charged upon the canal, but the law shall not go into
            effect until ratified at the polls.
          Well, Mr. President, that in my judgment, is a very singular way of putting legislative
            acts into effect. Our Constitution provides against laws being put into effect and
            operation in that way, and a decision in the fourth Indiana declares that a law
            depending for its binding force and effect upon a vote of the people is no law at all.
            Of course if this Constitutional amendment is adopted it obviates the present
            Constitutional provision on that subject I concede; but this amendment of his, if
            adopted, is an innovation in part upon the Constitutional provision which says that all
            laws shall go into effect upon the authority of the General Assembly, but not otherwise,
            and I think that is a safe Constitutional provision and one that should be adhered to.
            We never would have laws absolute upon their face, and effective, if our Constitution
            provided they might be first submitted to a vote of the people. The Legislature is the
            people of the State of Indiana in the enactment of laws. The General Assembly is
            presumed to pass no law the people do not desire should be passed, and certainly there
            is no sound reason, and surely no necessity why the Legislative will, before it shall
            become operative and effective should be submitted to the people.
          Another reason why I think the amendment should be absolute is this: we have had enough
            of this question. It has already produced vexation enough. It has already been used by
            unscrupulous politicians on both sides. On this question I desire to rise above party.
            It has already furnished aid and comfort to some men who desire this injustice shall be
            done to Indiana, and why not at once settle this question, and forever, as far as it is
            in the power of the State to settle it.
          If the learned Senator over way is correct when he says that unless the Legislature
            settle this question at once, it is open to parties to make improper advances to it;
            while his resolution, if adopted and made part of the Constitution of Indiana, simply
            throws a shield around the General Assembly to some extent, from these improper
            advances; and gives these gentlemen an opportunity of coming with their fifteen or
            eighteen million of dollars, if they desire to spend all of it, or such portion as they
            desire, and put it in the General election  of the
            State of Indiana and use it for the purpose of corrupting the ballot box by improperly
            influencing the voter at the polls--for the purpose of interfering with elections. I do
            not desire to be understood as saying the people of Indiana would be corrupted by the
            improper effort, but surely the Senator cannot dispute me successfully, when I say his
            amendment, while it does not save the General Assembly from the dire calamity he spoke
            of, it involves the people of Indiana in the same effort, if it is to be made upon the
            General Assembly; in other words, holders of the canal script would first come to the
            General Assembly and employ means to induce the General Assembly to pass a law
            submitting the question to the people and then go to the people and attempt to employ
            means by which they could pursuade the people to ratify the act of the General Assembly.
            My amendment saves us and the people from being subjected to such indecent
            proposals:--it says stand by the contract made in 1846-7.
          I have now said more than I intended to and more than I desired to say. This amendment
            is not a new one. I desire to make no innovation upon the gentleman who first proposed
            the amendment. It is the same amendment proposed by Senator Wolcott two years ago [See
            page 292 BREVIER REPORTS volume X] and I believe it passed the Senate, but I may be
            mistaken about that. So I will say gentlemen over the way cannot charge me with any
            desire of appropriating any benefit in this to the political party I have the pleasure
            to affiliate with. I have no party in it. It is a question that should rise above party
            in my judgment, and I say blistered be the politician that for the sake of his country
            would not rise above partyism and stand upon the ground that his judgment and honesty
            tells him is for the interest of the people of Indiana upon this subject.
          Mr. GRAY then demanded the previous question--see top of second column page 107.
          
            THE BURSON CASE.
            When Mr. ELLIOTT offered the following resolution: [see page 108] Resolved, That the
              Committee to whom was referred the credentials of the Hon. John W. Burson be and are
              hereby requested to report at once,
            Mr. HUGHES said: If the object of the resolution is to make this committee report on
              the charge of bribery when they have got subpoenas out for witnesses, it is rather a
              novel proceeding; and to use a favorite expression with gentlemen on the other side
              rather revolutionary. I only want to say distinctly that the record will show that
              every Senator who votes for that resolution as now worded, votes to suppress an
              investigation into grave charges of bribery.
            Mr. GLESSNER. Mr. President: It seems to me that resolution is out of order. There
              was objection to the introduction of the resolution--resolutions are not now in order,
              and we certainly cannot proceed to vote upon it over objections. There were two or
              three objections made in this part of the House.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Chair did not hear them. The resolution is clearly
              before the Senate.
            Mr. HENDERSON. Mr. President: The committee to which this matter was referred have it
              under consideration and have arranged to go into the investigation of it tonight. The
              matter would have been investigated before this time but Mr. Burson came to the
              committee last week and desired it should not be taken up until his attorneys should
              get here. I would have called the committee together for the investigation of it
              immediately, had it not been postponed at his suggestion. We are ready to go into the
              investigation of the whole case; we have witnesses subpoened; they will be here
              to-night, and we will be ready to report, perhaps in a day or two, on the whole
              case.
            On the motion of Mr. JOHNSTON, the resolution was laid on the table--yeas 24, nays
              23--as follows:
            
              
                
                  YEAS--Messrs. Armstrong, Beggs, Bobo, Bradley, Brown, Carnahan, Cave, Denbo,
                    Dittemore, Daugherty, Fracisco, Fuller, Glessner, Gregg, Henderson, Hughes,
                    Johnston, Keigwin, Lasselle, Morgan, Rosebrugh, Sarinhausen, Stroud and
                    Williams--24.
                  NAYS--Messrs. Andrews, Beardsley, Beeson, Caven, Collett, Dwiggins, Elliott,
                    Fosdick, Gray, Green, Hadley, Hamilton, Hess, Hooper, Hubbard, Martindale,
                    Miller, Robinson, Scott, Steele, Taylor, Wadge and Wood--23.
                
              
            
            Mr. GLESSNER moved to amend rule 17--see top of page 108.
            Mr. GRAY. I move to indefinitely postpone the amendment. I think I fully understand
              what is meant by this proposed amendment to the rule of this Senate. The amend- is so
              worded--and is done purposely I have no doubt--to exclude the Senator from Delaware
              from voting.
            Mr. HUGHES. Who is the Senator from Delaware?
            Mr. GRAY. The Hon. John W. Burson, is as much a Senator as any Senator upon this
              floor. Now I desire to state Mr. President, and I want to be most emphatically and
              distinctly understood,--and I desire the Reporter to take my remarks down--that the
              Republican Senators upon this floor have no objection whatever to a full, fair and
              sweeping investigation of the charges that are made against the Senator from Delaware.
              But we take the position that he is a Senator, entitled to all the rights, privileges
              and immunities of every other Senator upon this floor, that the depriving him of his
              vote is not only an outrage upon him, but an outrage upon every  man who respects his rights as a Senator upon this floor:
              and that it is in violation of law and of all precedence and all parliamentary law, as
              I shall clearly show by reading from Cushing's Parliamentary Law.
            I say Cushing's Legislative Law, as I will read presently, shows clearly that the
              Senator from Delaware is a Senator; and I say it is authority that is respected in
              every Legislative assembly in this nation, as much so as Webster's Dictionary is
              respected as proper authority for the true interpretation of the English language. The
              attempt to prevent the Senator from Delaware, from taking any part in the proceedings
              of this Senate, I repeat, is in utter violation of that law, and Senators who are
              keeping him out are trampling that law under foot and setting it at defiance. I
              suppose Senators will say the Senate has the right to do anything it pleases, but I
              undertake to say, and I have the law at my back in saying it, that when a Senator is
              once a Senator there is no way to get clear of him except to expel him. [Mr. G. reads:
              "The right to assume the functions of a Senator" &c.]
            Here is the Hon. John W. Burson, the Senator elect from the counties of Delaware and
              Madison who comes to the bar of this Senate, being duly returned, reported by the
              Board of Canvassers as duly elected, with the certificate of the Court and its broad
              seal upon it, and is sworn by a Judge of the Supreme Court, yet he is excluded from
              his rights as a Senator upon this floor. Why? Because some man has sworn that he has
              obtained that election by fraud. Is the Senate to prejudge the case? Is he not
              presumed to be innocent of the charge until proven guilty? Then why debar him of his
              rights until his case is investigated? Is there any right in it? Is it just? Is there
              any law or any precedents to establish it?
            Gentlemen talk about precedents; there is no precedent, Mr. President. They may talk
              about what has been done in Congress but there is no parallel to the case of the Hon.
              Senator from Delaware in Congress. Entirely different questions arose in Congress.
            Now, Mr. President, I undertake to speak for myself, and to point out clearly what
              course I intend to pursue, and Senators may distinctly understand it now. I repeat
              again, and want it distinctly understood, that we are willing the case should be
              fully, fairly and sweepingly investigated, and if the Senator is proven guilty of the
              charges, I say put him out. As far as I am concerned, if I am backed by those who
              think he is a Senator, we intend to resist every day, and every hour of the day, and
              every day of the session until the last day, and the last hour of the last day, until
              what is right is done in regard to the case of the Senator from Delaware.
            Mr. HUGHES. It is hardly worth while to take up time in the discussion of this case.
              The credentials of Mr. Burson are in the hands of the committee. An attempt has just
              been made to take them out of the hands of the committee and the Senate has refused to
              do so. The case of Mr. Burson is not in any sense before the Senate upon the question
              under consideration. The Senate has just laid on the table the proposition to call
              back Mr. Burson's case. Now we are on the subject of rules and there is a proposition
              here to forbid any Senator voting upon a question in which he is interested and where
              the record shows he is interested. If the gentleman will look in the same book he
              quotes from, he will find it is parliamentary law, that in no case can a Senator or
              Representative vote in cases in which he is interested, and that is the question
              before the Senate now. The proposition of the Senator from Shelby [Mr. Glessner] is to
              narrow that rule down to cases where the record shows a senator to be interested. That
              is the question before the Senate. I am not in favor of a man's voting where
              interested whether the record shows he is interested or not. I ask the Senator from
              Randolph [Mr. Gray] if he is in favor of a man's voting where interested?--whether he
              is in favor of a man's being the judge in his own case?
            Mr. GRAY. No, sir, I am not; but I want the Senator to understand that we consider
              the Senator from Delaware a Senator upon this floor, and we are demanding his vote,
              and I think the amendment is intended so that whenever we raise that question the
              record will show he is interested and therefore it will prevent him from voting.
            Mr. HUGHES. The record shows that the so-called Senator from Delaware did vote twice
              on his own case; now I put the question to the Senator from Randolph, if he had been
              in his place would he have voted on his own case?
            Mr. GRAY, I will answer. I suppose I would be controlled very much by circumstances
              surrounding me at the time. If I had been placed as Mr. Burson was, taking into
              consideration the outrage attempted to be made upon him, I think perhaps I would; in
              any other case I think I would not. Now, if the Senator from Delaware will be
              recognized as a Senator upon this floor, clothed with the immunities and privileges of
              a Senator, I am willing a rule may be adopted that would exclude him from voting on
              his own case--on the report of the Committee.
            Mr. HUGHES. If you are willing to do that why are you not willing to do it now?
            Mr. GRAY. Because you are not willing to admit him to the rights of a Senator.
            Mr. HUGHES. That is not the question, Mr. President. The Senator says he is willing
              to vote for this rule. Is he willing now? That is the question. It won't do to say
              that he is willing though not ready. Is he will- 
              ing to exclude him from voting now and hereafter?
            Mr. GRAY. We have no right to debar him from voting.
            Mr. HUGHES. We propose to establish a rule that no man shall vote in his own case,
              where the record shows him to be interested, and the Senator from Randolph objects to
              the rule, admitting it to be sound, because he has got a case in court he wants to try
              before the law goes into operation. That is what is the matter with him. The Senator
              from Randolph cannot legislate upon general principles, which he himself admits to be
              sound, he can't go for a rule that has been parliamentary law in every country where
              the English language is known for many years, until after he gets rid of the Senator
              frem Delaware call him that by courtesy. Here is a rule of the House of
              Representatives of the United States. [Mr. H. reads: "No member shall vote,"
              &c.]
            Now, sir, this is a good rule that the Senator from Shelby [Mr. Glessner] has
              introduced, but it does not go far enough. The rule I offered was the rule I read, but
              to compromise matters and save time I accepted the amendment, and up gets the Senator
              from Randolph and says: "Hold on, that is a very good rule, but it is going to hurt
              Mr. Burson;--the object is to exclude Mr. Burson." Alter we have had occular
              demonstration that Mr. Burson is a man ready and willing to judge of his own case and
              vote on it, which he has twice done, the argument is against the Senator. Does he want
              that repeated here?
            The question is whether each man in this chamber is to decide for himself whether
              there is a case against him. We have had Mr. Burson here twice voting on a call of the
              yeas and nays, and voting in favor of his own right to take a seat. We have had that
              exhibition here, and I undertake to say you may look into the law books and into the
              history of the civilized world and no other case can be found where a man claiming a
              seat in a legislative body ever presumed to vote upon the question himself.
            Talk about precedents; a precedent has been made here which has no parallel in
              history. You may search the world over and John W. Burson is the only man, known to
              the civilized world that ever voted twice upon the call of the yeas nays in favor of
              his own right to take a seat in a legislative body. And the false and infamous
              statement has been sent throughout this country that he was excluded by an arbitrary
              act of the majority, in order to organize this body, when the record shows that even
              counting his own vote the body could have been organized regardless of it. This is all
              there is of "the senatoral outrage'' as it is called throughout the country; and a
              member of Congress gets up in the United States House of Representatives and states in
              his place that this Senate was organized by fraud! Why sir, the vote of Mr. Burson had
              no more to do with the question of organizing this Senate than the vote of any banker
              or merchant in this city. He did vote and yet the Senate was organized; he could vote
              now, sir, but it would not destroy the organization of the body. There is an attempt
              being made to manufacture capital in this matter throughout this country by the
              suppression of truth and the suggestion of falsehood.
            The committee stand ready, and so advise the Senate to proceed to the investigation
              of the case, and let not Senators lay the flattering unction to their souls that they
              are manufacturing any great amount of capital outside or inside of this chamber by
              invoking constitutional rights for a man claiming a seat as a Senator here, when a
              grave charge of bribery stands unanswered and unrefuted against him. The Constitution
              says, a man who resorts to bribery to secure his seat is ineligible; and in his case
              such charges are made, a committee of investigation has been organized, subpoenas for
              witnesses have gone out, the committee is ready to hear the parties and give an
              immediate decision, and here we have this morning a resolution to suppress that whole
              investigation--to take from the committee jurisdiction of the whole subject--to close
              the avenues of justice and to close the mouths of witnesses upon this grave charge of
              bribery which goes directly to the ballot box and the rights of the people.
            They say, so the Senator from Randolph says, (and I must consider, in view of the
              greatness with which he is regarded by the Cincinnati Gazette, that he is the chosen
              leader of this movement,) that we are to hear of this case at every step of
              legislation of the session. Here, on the 18th day of January, with only a short season
              to spend in taking care of the interests of the State, he advises us in open Senate
              this morning that at every step in the legislation of the present session we are to
              have this question thrust upon us to the distraction of public business. That is the
              notice served upon us.
            Do these gentlemen mean to say that a charge of bribery, with a committee organized
              to examine it, shall not be investigated? Do they mean to say, after three or four
              decisions of this Senate, they will thrust that question upon us to distract the
              public business, and thus place themselves in the attitude of seeking to cover up that
              investigation? They talk about the rights of Senators, what do they think about the
              rights of the people? They talk about justice, what do they think of corruption? Have
              they no pride as citizens, as men or as Senators that inspires them to purge this body
              or any of its members from such a charge? Are we to be interrupted here in this  way, and a clamor kept up about the technical
              rights of a Senator when the people are standing outside of these halls demanding an
              investigation into the charge of bribery and corrupting the ballot box of the State;
              or are we to have him before a committee waiting to hear him? How much capital is to
              be made out of that? Not much. If the Senator from Randolph is the rising man the
              Cincinnati Gazette represents him to be, he will find other subjects more fit, out of
              which to carve a reputation, and not talk here about technicalities while the people
              stand outside clamoring for the purity of the ballot box.
            Mr. SCOTT. This subject has taken a little different turn from what I anticipated. I
              don't see but one point in this thing that looks unfavorable, but there is one point
              that looks unfavorable and unfair, and I submit that to Senators in all candor. There
              is but one vote between us I believe, if properly counted, and it looks very much as
              though these Senators were interested in preventing us having our legal and legitimate
              number of votes. It looks very much so, and it is very hard for a man in his own mind
              to acquit them entirely of any interest on that question. It is exceedingly hard in my
              judgment for the people to entirely acquit them of the interest offered in that
              direction--to deprive us of one vote, or to spike one of our guns. It looks that way
              to a man at a distance.
            The only thing we complain of is not that Senators are endeavoring to establish a
              rule which I recognize to be of value and one that should be the rule,of this House,
              and in the use of that rule they do not permit all persons elected, properly elected,
              to participate in a rule which if adopted will forever deprive us of the strength we
              are entitled to by the voice of the people of the State. If they had not prevented
              this Senator from voting, and now seek to get between him and his legitimate votes, a
              rule which will exclude him from voting hereafter when he does come in, we might not
              have so much complaint.
            Mr. HUGHES. Does the Senator mean to intimate that when the case of Mr. Burson comes
              up he is to vote in his own case, and that would be the hardship?
            Mr. SCOTT. I do not understand that a man elected to a seat on this floor can so
              discharge himself from responsibility that he can set silent from day to day and see
              his constituents entirely ignored in this Senate without expressing opposition either
              by vote or voice. I do not consider that a matter in which he is entirely and
              particularly interested. It is his constituents, sir, that are interested and he is in
              duty bound to cast his vote in such cases. If it were a matter of peculiar interest
              where he was to reap an advantage, every sense of propriety that every man has upon
              this floor would see and admit that he ought not to vote. But I cannot see any
              difference in these parliamentary proceedings, in his voting and in any other
              Senator's voting;--not the least.
            Now sir, as far as the question is concerned which was before the Senate this
              morning- the resolution of the Senator from Fayette [Mr. Elliott] asking that
              committee to make a report. I understand the purport of that resolution to be simply
              this: asking the committee to report upon the credentials of Mr. Burson, in order to
              let this body know whether he is by these credentials properly elected. I don't know
              what else the resolution meant. I had no knowledge of it, but I understand by it that
              the committee might report that as far as the credentials are concerned they show that
              he was properly elected. I don't know what use there is in making a report upon that
              subject because it has been conceded upon this floor that the credentials are proper
              and fair upon their face; although there would be no harm or object as I can see in
              that committee reporting that fact to this body. And I don't conceive or understand
              that would withdraw from the committee the contest which has been referred to that
              committee by this House, or prevent that committee from investigating the charges
              which have been made against the Senator. There is a clear and proper distinction
              between the election of a man and whether that man is qualified to take his seat after
              his election.
            One Senator stands upon this floor and says we are casting a vote to shield a man who
              is charged with corruption. I say the votes which have been cast will not bear that
              construction. When you interpret it in the light of a resolution referring it to a
              committee and a resolution of the Senate calling for a report from that committee it
              will show these two things are seperable and can be properly divided.
            I don't know of anything else in this matter. I would be perfectly willing to adopt
              this rule did it not bear so hard in this particular case, and as though it were fixed
              up for this individual case. I think the Senator from Delaware [Mr. Burson] ought to
              be allowed to participate in the adoption of the rule--he might vote for it or against
              it. I do not know which way he would vote nor do I care. But when we attempt the
              establishment of a new rule and exclude him from voting upon the establishment of that
              rule which is to affect him in the future, I think it looks hard and may be made the
              subject of just complaint.
            Mr. GRAY. The Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] has erected here a very strict
              standard of political propriety, in his remarks directed to the Senator from Delaware
              in regard to his vote upon a proposition in which he was interested. The Senator ought
              to be interested as to his rights as a Senator upon the floor, and that is all that
              affects the Senator  from Delaware [Mr. Burson]
              as to whether he is a Senator or nor. Upon that proposition I think he has a perfect
              right if he can, to try to vote. But Mr. President, the Senator seems to be so very
              sensitive in regard to what I shall call political propriety, I can't help but think
              of the fact that he himself, was elected to his seat in this body by the Republican
              party of his county, yet since I have had the honor to be a member of this Legislature
              I believe he has never acted an hour or a day with that party. If I am correctly
              informed, the Senator two years ago, went into a Democratic caucus, took his
              nomination for United States Senator and was voted for in the joint Assembly of
              the--
            Mr. HUGHES (interrupting.) That is not true. I have not been in a Democratic caucus
              since the war commenced till the other night; I went into one then, and expect to go
              into all this session, and expect to vote with that party.
            Mr. GRAY. All I have to say is if the Senator is to be governed by so fine and
              sensitive a feeling could he not have carried it out when he concluded to leave the
              Republican party and lay his commission down before the people of Monroe county?
            Mr. HUGHES. That is a question between the people of Monroe county and myself. If the
              gentleman has read any other paper than the Cincinnati Gazette he will find that the
              Republican organ of Monroe county endorses what I have done. That county never was a
              Republican county until I was a candidate and never will be again in my opinion.
              [Laughter.]
            Mr. GRAY. That does not answer the question. I undertake to say he was nominated and
              elected by Republicans to this Senate.
            Mr. HUGHES. I was; and in every speech I made I told the people they need have no
              fear of negro suffrage, for I had the pledge of honor of the Republican party both
              State and National, made in Convention, that they would not force it upon them. I
              found out I unintentionally told a falsehood because they no sooner got into power
              than they did do it. The gentleman can decide and the public can decide who has been
              betrayed.
            Mr. GRAY. The gentleman does not undertake to say that he represents the Republican
              party of Monroe county.
            Mr. HUGHES. I undertake to say I represent my constituents.
            Mr. GRAY. The way is to present himself before a Republican Convention and ask for a
              nomination.
            Mr. HUGHES. The way is to present myself before Republican voters.
            Mr. GRAY. Now I do think that would be the proper course for the Senator to pursue.
              That would be carrying out the doctrine he is attempting to enforce upon the Senator
              from Delaware. The Senator talks about the people outside of these walls clamoring
              about this question of Mr. Burson. Of course, if Senator Burson is disqualified, the
              entire people of his district of both political parties are unrepresented here; and
              that is what we object to. Just allow the Senator from Delaware to exercise the
              functions of a member of the body until this matter is investigated, and if the
              investigation shows that fraud has been committed, turn him out. I ask if that is not
              the course pursued in the other end of the capitol? Was not Mr. Weakly turned out
              yesterday? And did he not occupy a seat until the report was made? Why is not the same
              course pursued here? There is no reason--none in the world. We think it is the
              intention to keep the seat vacant, and not permit the Senator from Delaware to
              exercise his functions nor permit his competitor.
            Mr. HUGHES. I will state that I know the Senator is incorrect in that. Mr. Burson
              asked the delay of his investigation for one week, and stopped the investigation
              there. And I say whatever delay has occurred, has been at the personal request of Mr.
              Burson in consequence of the absence of his Attorneys. The Senator ought not to charge
              delay upon the committee.
            Mr. BROWN. If the Senator will allow me I desire to say this: Should this Senate make
              an order upon that committee or should the Democratic party make an order upon that
              committee that would require me as a member of that committee to unnecessarily
              postpone the investigation of Mr. Burson's case, I would resign my place upon it. I
              desire an investigation at the earliest practicable moment, and when any delay shall
              come from one side of the Chamber or the other, simply for the purpose of preventing
              Mr. Burson from having a hearing is shown to me, I shall no longer serve upon the
              committee.
            Mr. GRAY. We claim that there is nothing about the credentials of the Senator from
              Delaware that needs any investigation. We don't ask them to stop the investigation so
              far as fraud is concerned. Whatever fraud has entered into the election, we have from
              first to last said we are willing for the fullest investigation.
            Mr. LASSELLE, I can have no doubt as to the propriety of this proposed amendment. It
              is so just and proper that I am at a loss to see how any Senator can hesitate to vote
              for it. It has been the parliamentary rule for centuries that no member of any
              legislative body shall be permitted to vote on any question in which he is interested.
              It has been a rule of ancient parliament, from which we have derived our customs for
              centuries, that members are not only prohibited from voting on any question in which
              they are interested but are required to withdraw from the  deliberations of the body. I will read from Jefferson's
              Manual, which recites the old parliamentary usage on that question. It will be found
              in section 13, "orders of debate." [See 2 Hats. 121, 122.]
            Mr. GRAY. Does the proposed amendment meet that case? Might not a person be
              interested and not be referred to in the record?
            Mr. LASSELLE. It makes the case stronger. If the record of the body shows it it makes
              it conclusive. This is not only parliamentary rule for centuries but is the rule of
              Congress. I will read the rule of Congress--rule 40. [Mr. L. reads.] That rule was
              adopted April 7, 1779, only a few weeks after the adoption of the Constitution, and
              has always been the rule since. There can be no question as to the propriety of this
              rule; and I will say that the rule of the Senate in force now in regard to this matter
              is a mistake. That has been a rule of this body only for a few years past. I think it
              was put into the rules of 1865 by a misprint. I called attention to this fact two
              years ago and insisted that the resolution should be amended but it was thought no
              Senator would be found who would so far forget his duty to himself and respect for
              this body as to vote in a matter in which he was interested.
            It is claimed that Senators on one side are opposed to the Senator from Delaware
              voting, simply because if they allowed his vote it will give one vote against us. I
              hope this is a question above that of a mere vote. It ought to be and I know it is.
              There is a great principle involved here. I think I can speak for my colleagues here
              that it is not a question of a vote, but it is a desire to do justice and go back to
              the old parliamentary rule of centuries.
            The Senator from Randolph claims that the Senator, Mr. Burson from Delaware, is a
              Senator upon this floor. For my part I admit it that he is a Senator of the State of
              Indiana, and a Senator in this body. I accord that with cheerfulness and without
              hesitation, but I say that is no reason why he should be entitled to vote in any case
              in this body. He may be a Senator in form; he is a Senator until he is declared to be
              unqualified or expelled; but while he may be a Senator he is not entitled to be a
              Senator with all the privileges of the balance of us who have not been charged with
              bribery. This is consistent with the precedents and laws of our country. The Senator
              from Delaware is a citizen; so am I; we are free citizens of Indiana, but, sir, the
              moment we are charged with an offense against the laws, are we not arrested, are not
              our liberties for the time suspended, until that charge is cleared up? We are presumed
              to be innocent until proven guilty. I admit the Senator from Delaware is presumed to
              be innocent until proven guilty, but he is charged with bribery and according to the
              laws of the country we should suspend him in the liberties and full rights of a
              Senator until he is cleared of the charge. If cleared admit him as you would a
              citizen, but if guilty hurl him from the proud position of a Senator as you would hurl
              any citizen from the proud position of a citizen.
            I think I speak candidly upon the question. I have not the honor to be acquainted
              with the Senator from Delaware and as far as he is concerned I have no friendship to
              reward and no enmity to punish. I think I can do that Senator justice. I shall always
              try to rise above party in questions of this kind, let the result be as it may. When a
              Senator on this floor is charged with bribing his way here I will always take my stand
              as I have taken it, in favor of suspending that Senator until the charges are proven
              or disproven.
            Mr. GRAY. If the charge is made against the Senator from Monroe will the Senator vote
              to suspend him?
            Mr. LASSELLE. I will do it all the time. I will vote against allowing any Senator
              properly charged with bribery coming in here and voting. And, Mr. President, it seems
              to me if there is any case in which we should suspend any Senator it should be this
              very case. I submit whether it is not suspicioned by the people all over the land that
              the fountains of legislation are corrupt. We hear of it in Congress; and in the
              Legislature of Indiana. It is lamentable to admit it but we must, that a portion of
              the people have not that confidence in our integrity and honor that they should have.
              And it is our duty to examine into charges of this kind, and allow no gentlemen to
              exercise his full rights as a Senator here until that charge is decided and if it is
              proved upon him, we ought to make such an example of him as will deter any gentleman
              from undertaking to buy his way into the Senate of the State.
            Then came the recess for dinner.
          
          
            AFTERNOON SESSION.
            The Senate met at 2 o'clock, when--
            Mr. HOOPER said: Mr. President: I am gratified to day in the discussion of this
              question to find our friends on the other side have progressed somewhat--that they are
              not maintaining to-day the same position they did a few days ago when this question
              was up for debate. The Senator who last addressed the Senate just before dinner, Mr.
              Lasselle, has admitted and I think correctly, beyond all doubt, that the Senator from
              Delaware is a Senator upon this floor. It will be remembered when we had this question
              under discussion before, no such position was admitted by them. They held that he was
              not a Senator; that he had been irregularly sworn, and therefore it was equivalent to
              not being sworn  at all and he was not a member
              of this Senate. That is substantially the position taken by them in the prior
              discussion of this case. We held that he had been regularly sworn in, that he was a
              legal member of this body and had the right to vote and participate in our
              deliberations until his case has been acted upon and his seat declared vacant in some
              mode recognized by the law and the Constitution. That was the position we took, and I
              must say to-day that I think we maintained our view of the case and presented
              authorities maintaining it.
            [Mr. H. recapitulated his argument--here-tofore given in these pages.]
            A disclaimer has already been put in and I repeat it, that there is no desire on the
              part of any Senator on this floor to prevent a fair investigation of this question and
              I feel confident upon another point: that no question of party can possibly influence
              my mind when it comes to voting upon the question of the qualification of that
              Senator. If these charges are true, and if supported by evidence that shall carry
              conviction to my mind, certainly the fact that he is returned as a Republican Senator
              will have no possible weight with me in determining my vote on this question.
            Two years ago, I remember, a part of the Republican Senators here voted to turn out a
              Republican, and it was not regarded as a party question. It is true there was a
              difference of opinion among Senators as to his qualification, and I believe every
              Senator upon the Republican side of the House voted as their judgments and consciences
              dictated they should vote upon that question, and no question of party entered into it
              at all. I remember I was one who entertained the view that he was not qualified and I
              voted to vacate his seat and admit the gentleman contesting a Democrat.
            I believe this is a question of vital importance, and believing so, I shall maintain
              it by my vote. It affects the rights of his constituents and the rights of the
              constituents of every member on this floor. If it be true that a member can be
              silenced on this floor because somebody sees fit to make charges against him--if upon
              such ex parte testimony this Senate is to deprive the counties of
              Delaware and Madison of a representation upon this floor, they may disqualify just so
              many constituents as in their pleasure they may see fit. There is no authority for any
              such doctrine as that; it would be absolutely destroying every principle of our
              government if such doctrine were recognized. That is all there is in the case. Under
              what parliamentary law do they plant themselves when they say they have the right to
              do that? It is simply the power of force--the power of a majority to do as they may
              see fit.
            So thoroughly am I convinced that we are right, that if I were the Senator from those
              counties I would stay in my seat, and upon every roll call I would demand, not on
              behalf of myself but on behalf of my constituents, my right to vote until my seat had
              been vacated in some mode recognized by the Constitution and laws of the land. The
              Senator ought to demand that his vote be taken, and insist upon it. I believe there is
              enough principle involved in this question to make it an issue, and to insist upon the
              right of his being recognized, let the consequences be what they may, as far as
              legislation is concerned until this question is settled.
            Mr. BROWN. I would like to ask the Senator: Suppose Mr. Burson is sworn in now and an
              investigation takes place, and the committee report that the charges presented are
              true, what vote does it take then to exclude him from the privileges of the
              Senate--two-thirds or a majority?
            Mr. HOOPER. My present opinion is that a majority vote is all that is required.
            Mr. DWIGGINS was now recognized by the Chair.
            Mr. BROWN [addressing Mr. Hooper.] Upon that vote are you willing Mr. Burson should
              vote?
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Senator from Jasper [Mr. Dwiggins] has the floor.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. I ask the Senator to yield that the Senate may concur in a resolution
              of the House. [For a joint Convention at this hour to elect Directors for the
              Benevolent Institutions of the State.]
            Mr. DWIGGINS. I cannot surrender the floor. It strikes me, Mr. President, as a
              remarkable proposition at this particular time, to amend rule 17 of this Senate; and I
              am not able to understand how the amendment offered by the Senator from Shelby [Mr.
              Glessner] can possibly apply to any kind of a case except the case of the Senator from
              Delaware. Now, sir, in what case could the rule possibly apply, in the course of
              general legislation for the interest of the State? What law or bill could be
              introduced here, sir, that the records of the Senate would show any Senator personally
              interested in the passage or defeat of? It occurs to me, sir, such a case as that
              never could arise it the history of any legislative body. Why, sir, how would you get
              it on the journals? Suppose a bill was introduced in which I was directly and
              personally interested, in what manner, sir, would the journals of this House show that
              interest? In no conceivable way I can think of, unless some Senator knowing the facts,
              should come in and enter a protest. Hence I come to one conclusion, that this
              amendment is introduced and pressed here, for the express and only purpose--not
              impugning the motives of the Senator who in- 
              troduced it, for I cannot and would not, if I could--only to prevent Mr. Burson from
              discharging his duties as a Senator on this floor. It is to meet his case and his
              alone, and had it not been for his case, in my opinion, this amendment to this rule
              would not have been offered at this time.
            Mr. HUGHES. Mr. President: I understand the Senator to make the statement that this
              proposition was made for the only purpose, and for no other, to exclude the Senator
              from Delaware. I ask the Chair to decide whether that language is in order.
            Mr. DWIGGINS. I am not impugning the motives of any Senator. I said I had not the
              right to and would not if I had.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR I do not think the language was improper. It seems to me the
              Senator was guarded on that point.
            Mr. DWIGGINS. I did not intend to impugn the motives of any man.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR The Senator will proceed.
            Mr. DWIGGINS. Now, sir, I have said about all I desire to say upon the branch of the
              question I was discussing. In this discussion Senators have taken a wide range, in
              other words gone back, as I conceive, to discuss the merits of the case of Senator
              Burson. Now, sir, I propose to address myself briefly to that. I was not here as
              Senators know, at the organization of the Senate, but since coming here have heard the
              journals of the Senate read in the Burson case. As I understand it, it is this: [Mr.
              D. recited the history as recorded in the journals.]
            Mr. BROWN (interposing.) I rise to a point of order. I ask the President of the
              Senate to require the Senator from Jasper [Mr. Dwiggins] to confine himself within
              reasonable points on the subject matter embraced in the amendment. The Burson case has
              nothing to do with the subject matter of this resolution. The only question involved
              is: Is it right or wrong for a Senator to be permitted to vote upon a question where
              the record of the Senate shows he is immediately interested?
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Chair would state that it is utterly out of the power of
              the Chair to determine exactly the range debate has to take. The Chair is inclined to
              give the largest liberty. Senators in the discussion of this resolution have the right
              certainly to discuss how it may affect any question before the Senate by way of
              understanding the application or force of the rule, and it is not for the Chair to say
              that the discussion is not within the legitimate range of debate.
            Mr. BROWN. Does that involve the right to discuss whether the action of the Senate
              was right or wrong?
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Perhaps not strictly by itself, but that question has
              entered into the discussion and the Chair will not be inclined to sustain the point of
              order.
            Mr. DWIGGINS. The point I desire to make is that you cannot notify this body of
              anything by notifying individual members outside of the Senate. When is this body a
              Senate? Not before the President called the Senate to order. The point I make is that
              the protest which was given was no notice at all. Therefore I take it, that all done
              in this case, prior to the time of the organization of the Senate simply goes for
              naught. What was done afterward? [Mr. D. recounted the facts.]
            Mr. BROWN (interposing.) I rise to a point of order. I ask the President of the
              Senate to decide that the Senator from Jasper [Mr. Dwiggins] has no right to discuss
              the action and conduct of either the President nor the Ssnate in swearing or refusing
              to swear Mr. Burson in.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Chair will not decide any such thing. The Chair has
              decided that the Senator from Jasper has the right to discuss this question as fully
              as any other Senator, and I do not understand that he is doing anything else.
            Mr. BROWN. I appeal from the decision.
            Mr. HUGHES. Mr. President:
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR The Senator from Jasper has the floor.
            Mr. HUGHES. I suggest to the Senator from Jasper to let the concurrent resolution be
              disposed of. It won't take but a few minutes.
            Mr. BROWN. If he does that I will hear him with pleasure.
            Mr. DWIGGINS. I cannot yield the floor. All I ask is that I have the same show as
              Senators on the other side of the House.
            Mr. JOHNSTON. I hope the Senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown] will not take an appeal. I
              am satisfied the ruling of the Chair is not correct but I do not wish to vote that
              way.
            Mr. BROWN. Of course I will not place any friend of mine in such a position. But it
              does seem to me the Senator over the way might suspend his remarks, when the Senate
              will certainly give him the floor five minutes after.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Does the Senator withdraw his appeal.
            Mr. BROWN. Yes, sir.
            Mr. DWIGGINS. Now, sir, Senator Burson presented his credentials, was sworn in and
              took his seat precicely as all other Senators. If that does not make him a Senator
              with all the rights and privileges of any other Senator, then, sir, I am unable to
              conceive why it does not. It is claimed by Senators on  the other side that this Senate has the power to take hold
              of a Senator and shut his mouth or do whatever else the Senate may choose in
              presenting him from discharging his duty here, in other words that the Senate has
              original and exclusive jurisdiction in this question and therefore can do whatever it
              chooses in the premises. That is a proposition I contravert.
            The point I make is this: the Senate has original and exclusive jurisdiction to try
              these kind of cases but the Senate must try them inside the Constitution and the laws
              of the State. This Senate has no jurisdiction except as we get it from the
              Constitution. We haven't the right to sit here and enact laws as a king upon the
              throne without reference to the Constitution and laws. There are just two ways to oust
              a member: one by a successful contest and the other by expulsion. It is not pretended
              that there is any contest here. The gentleman who had the honor to be a candidate
              against Mr. Burson is not here demanding that he should have the seat.
            The Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] this morning said, that Mr. Burson was the first
              man ever voted for his own admission in any representative body, or any other body;-
              that there was not such a case on record. In reply, I might say that the precedent set
              by this Senate in attempting to take away any rights of Mr. Burson as a Senator before
              a trial, is unheard of and unprecedented. The Senator from Monroe cited the case of a
              member of Congress from the State of Kentucky. This is a different case. There never
              has been a case in the history of this nation, when a member of Congress after he had
              once been sworn in, where he was deprived of the right to vote or discharge all the
              duties of his position until regularly tried and excluded. There is no such case upon
              the record.
            But it is claimed by gentlemen that Mr. Burson was irregularly sworn in. I have
              listened very attentively, but have not heard one word of explanation as to in what
              the irregularity consisted. How was it irregular? In what manner was it irregular? I
              would be obliged to gentlemen on the other side if they will inform me wherein the
              irregularity consisted. I claim that there was no irregularity.
            Now, sir, I always have learned and have read in the Constitution and laws of the
              State, that a man should have a fair and impartial trial before he could be convicted;
              and I have read another law, and that is: that every man charged with crime as Mr.
              Burson is, should be presumed to be innocent until he is proven guilty beyond a
              reasonable doubt. If Senators know any different law in the statutes I would be
              grateful if they would call my attention to it. They seem to adopt a different rule:
              that a man is to be punished and then tried.
            If the Senator from Monroe is correct in stating that the Lieutenant Governor was
              acting as a mere clerk in the organization of the Senate, certainly an appeal from a
              ruling made by him when acting as a clerk would not lie, and that action of the Senate
              was void because there was no foundation upon which it could rest. But admitting, for
              the sake of argument, that was all right, what then? Why, sir, there is another rule
              of law I have learned in my short experience as a lawyer, and that is this: If a court
              commits an error, that court has the right to correct that error. I think that is a
              pretty tolerable plain proposition. Any court has the right to correct an error
              committed by that court. Now the point I make is, that the Senate did act without
              authority of law and outside of the provision of the Constitution and if I am correct
              the Senate has committed an error. If the Senate has committed an error, why shall we
              go on the whole term of the session and stick to that error? Why not correct it? We
              certainly have the right to correct that error and I claim now is the time to do
              it.
            As the senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] has severely criticised Mr. Burson for having
              twice voted in his own behalf, I would say that if my privileges and rights were
              attempted to be taken away from me by this Senate, without authority of law, I would
              do every thing--I would use all the power God Almighty and man has placed in my reach,
              to protect my rights and assert them at every point. And I would do that if I stood
              here alone with all my party friends against me, as well as the other side of the
              House, because when a man accepts an office from the people he owes that people a
              duty. Mr. Burson represents thirty or forty thousand people of Indiana and if he is
              silenced they are without representation here. They have rights here, and it is not
              only his privilege but his duty to insist upon his rights at every point and insist
              that they shall be recognized. I would do this: When the Committee reports upon his
              case, were I in his place, I would decline to vote upon that proposition but I would
              insist upon my right to vote upon every other proposition prior to the time of that
              report.
            I believe when the committee come to examine his case, they will give a fair and
              impartial hearing, and weigh the matter carefully and make a report in accordance with
              their views. A committee in a case of this kind, sitting as a court, it is their duty,
              as I believe they will, to try this case without regard to political proclivities.
              That is what I desire, and what I insist upon. I want the committee to go to the
              bottom of this matter, and I am informed by Mr. Burson that is what he demands.

            

            This is not merely Mr. Burson's case, for we are establishing a precedent for all
              time to come. Here is a Senate in which the Democrats have twenty-six members, and if
              Mr. Burson is counted the Republicans have twenty-four. Suppose the Republicans go
              round fishing over the State and procure protests to be signed against four or five
              Democrats and we vote them out. Then the Democrats to retaliate go to our Districts
              and they obtain protests upon which we are voted out; then we go back upon them and in
              a few days we have no Senate here. If this rule will apply in one case it will apply
              in fifty, and if that is to be the rule we might as well go home and let the people
              legislate in some other way. This is the legitimate result and I protest that it is a
              dangerous precedent to establish.
            Now, sir, to recapitulate. I am not speaking against time, gentlemen, I am speaking
              because I think the case demands it and because my constituents demand that I should.
              [Mr. D. then rehearsed his argument.]
            Mr. BROWN, Mr. WILLIAMS and others endeavored to obtain the floor but it was awarded
              to--
            Mr. STEELE who said: Mr. President: I understand the question before the Senate to be
              on making a certain rule by which this body is to be governed during the present
              session. That being the question before the Senate it becomes important to ascertain
              whether the senator from Delaware [Mr. Burson] has any interest in this matter one way
              or the other. It is insisted that he is not a senator here, and that the record shows
              he is not a senator. If so I have not understood it. I occupy the position taken by
              the senator from Jasper [Mr. Dwiggins] that the record is in our favor.
            [Mr. S. referred to the proceedings in this case previous to the organization of the
              Senate; and contended that an appeal taken afterward cannot go back of the record; in
              support of which he read from the State Constitution section 10 of Art. IV, and also
              from the Xlth Ind. page 404.]
            Mr. Burson was properly sworn in and made a senator upon this floor like other
              senators, and it is not competent for a majority of the Senate to silence him or
              require that he should sit here silently and not represent his constituents. If by the
              vote of a mere majority you can silence one member you can silence another, and by the
              same process, I believe they can silence any member opposed to them on this floor. It
              is a principle that is monstrous in itself.
            But the opposition do not appear to agree in their tactics. One senator turns round
              and says that Mr. Burson is not a senator; another senator, the senator from Cass [Mr.
              Lasselle] gets up in the face of the Senate and says, those who hold to that doctrine
              are wrong in his judgment--that Mr. Burson is a senator here. He speaks of him as such
              and takes this ground, that although he is a senator, the senate by a mere majority
              have the right to silence his voice in this body, so it shall not be heard. It amounts
              to the same thing;- If they have the right to say he shall not vote for a day or a
              week, they have the right to say he shall not vote during the session,- that his
              constituents shall not be represented during the whole session of this body.
            A great deal has been said by gentlemen as to the delicacy they would have in
              attempting to represent their district if charges were made against them. The best men
              the Lord ever made have had charges made against them--even our Saviour himself, the
              Great Giver and Upholder of the universe, was not exempt from such charges as this.
              The best men that ever lived in the world, whether senators, representatives or
              Presidents, have had charges made against them. It is an easy matter to make charges,
              but it is often found difficult to meet charges. I have long known the senator from
              Delaware and I don't believe for myself--I will not believe until I see the
              testimony--until I hear the testimony against him, that he is that corrupt man that
              some senators here would have us believe he is. They say they would be too delicate to
              undertake to do their duty here--too delicate to undertake to represent their
              constituents after they have sworn before the God that made them that they would well
              and faithfully perform their duties as senators. For modesty's sake they would turn
              round and purjure themselves morally here, rather than do the duty they sworn to
              do.
            Gentlemen tell us that we are for the purpose of making precedents, and I tell
              senators that this is a new precedent. It is something that has not been known in the
              legislation of this country before; and I will say to gentlemen that their chickens
              will come home to roost after a while.
            [Mr. S. here referred to Mr. Lasselle's speech, and a conversational discussion
              ensued between the two--the latter correcting the former's construction of his
              remarks.]
            It is not only the privlege of Mr. Burson to vote, but he should not exercise that
              kind of modesty spoken of, for he is doing injustice not only to himself but to the
              citizens of the counties of Delaware and Madison in refusing to vote, in failing to
              vote and in demanding to vote. I think almost any other Senator would have risen in
              their places and demanded that their names be called upon every measure that a vote
              was taken on. I think we are going to need all the help we can get, for I understand
              the honorable Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] advertised here in advance that we need
              not expect any of his aid. We need not  expect a
              vote from him for he declares in his place that he expects to vote with the Democratic
              party from now to the end of the session.
            Mr. HUGHES. I hope the Senator will not misrepresent me. I wish the Senator to
              understand that no party owns my vote. I think he had an illustration of that
              yesterday.
            Mr. STEELE. When the Senator rises and says, "I advertise you that I intend to vote
              with another party," I am bound to believe him.
            Mr. HUGHES. This debate is taking a wide range and the Senator is carrying it a
              little too far to assert that because I said I would act with a party, that binds me
              never to vote on that side of the house. I say it is unfair and untrue.
            Mr. STEELE. I ask the gentleman to state whether he did not make the remark that he
              would vote with that party?
            Mr. HUGHES. I did, and I repeat it but that does not bear the construction the
              Senator is putting upon it.
            Mr. STEELE. I have always entertained a very high opinion of the Senator from Monroe
              and believe he speaks that which he means. He did say and admits it now, that he would
              vote with the Democratic party and I have made it no stronger. If it is untrue, as he
              states, it is not my making, but the untruth comes from the Senator from Monroe.
            Mr. HUGHES. As I see from the last three speeches that the lot has fallen upon that
              side of the House, I give notice now that I will seek the floor when the Senator is
              done.
            Mr. STEELE. I have no objection. When the Senator rises and admits he made the
              declaration, I ask if it is not a fair conclusion for me to say that I regard him as
              speaking the truth; and yet he will rise in his place and say it is not true. If it is
              not true I use his own language. I ask the Senator here to determine.
            Mr. LASSELLE. I rise to a point of order.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. State your point of order.
            Mr. LASSELLE. That the gentleman is dealing in personalities in violation of the rule
              of the Senate.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I don't understand the senator to be dealing in
              personalities.
            Mr. STEELE. I would say in answer to the gentleman that instead of doing so I am
              intending to have the Senate understand that I was placing the most implicit
              confidence in the word of the senator from Monroe. I have the most explicit confidence
              and exercised it, and so I believe in my heart it is true that he will in all
              probability vote that way, and make his word true. I was only remarking that I suppose
              we want all the help we could get; that if members here elected by the Republican
              party give us notice in this our time of need that they do not expect to act with us,
              but against us, it behooves us to try and get all the helf we can.
            Now, Mr. President, I think I have said just about all I want to say. But before I
              set down I will observe that as far as the action of this committee is concerned in
              the case of Mr. Burson I believe the committee will act honestly; and if the charges
              are made out I will vote for his expulsion from this body.
            Mr. HUGHES. Mr. President: I am not responsible to this body, nor to any senator upon
              this floor, for the manner in which I discharge my duties here. My defense is reserved
              for another forum. I am the peer of every senator upon this floor, responsible only to
              my constituents, and it is not their privilege or right--it is not courteous for
              senators to read me lectures. With reference to the remark made by the senator from
              Grant [Mr. Steele] that "we have received notice we are to have no help from the
              senator from Monroe," I did not say so. When the senator from Randolph [Mr. Gray] took
              it upon himself to play the school master and rebuke me, I replied that I would act
              with the Democratic party here and expect to. Every man who wants to put a fair
              construction upon my languague understood that I would act with them as a party
              organization, upon party questions, and not upon matters of legislation. After my
              explanation--after I called the senators attention in a courteous manner to the fact
              that he was perverting what I said, he goes on and reiterates it. That simply amounts
              to an avowal on his part. Notwithstanding he winds up by unfurling his flag and
              declares he wants Mr. Burson to help him.
            Mr. STEELE (in his seat.) That's my idea.
            Mr. HUGHES. Exactly, so I understand. It's not the Constitution, not law, not
              justice, not the rights of the District composed of the counties of Delaware and
              Madison, nor the rights of Mr. Burson, it's "help me Cassius or" the Republican party
              is about to sink. That is what's the matter.
            Oh, yes, whenever they see the evidence made perfectly plain against him, they will
              vote to exclude him. Exactly so. I reckon gentlemen who speak in the tone and temper
              of the senator who has just taken his seat will hardly ever see the evidence against
              Mr. Burson. As a certain distinguished United States senator said in caucus about the
              fifteenth amendment, "we must ratify this amendment whether or no, because these votes
              are amongst us, and we must have these votes; we want these votes to protect the power
              of the republican party." The whole of this argument is evidently a  preconcerted plan; because notice has been given that this
              contest is to be continued throughout this session, and it is being followed out. The
              whole argument on this question is known to be a deliberate and systematic assault
              upon the established policy of the party to which these parties belong. It is
              astonishing that they question the propriety of the action of the Senate in this case.
              It has been the uniform practice of that party in the General Government for the last
              six or eight years to do the very thing we have done in this case; and all the
              denunciations that gentlemen heap upon this act here, passes over the head of the
              Democratic party and strikes with full force the Republican party from the ranks of
              which they came. It was only yesterday, or the day before we were informed that the
              United States Senate decided to swear in a senator who has been standing at their door
              for four years.
            Mr. WILLIAMS. They are not yet sworn in.
            Mr. HUGHES. The committee decided they are entitled to their seats That Senator is an
              unquestioned Union man, and I say that the attempt made by the State Journal to excuse
              the matter by saying that he was not elected till after the negroes left the Assembly
              is a mistake; he was elected while the negroes were there. There was no pretence of
              illegality of election and they have kept him out two thirds of his term. Here a
              charge is made by both Democrats and Republicans supported by the oaths of men of both
              parties--it is a contest between two Republicans and yet we are to be lectured here in
              this manner and denounced for doing the same thing that party has done in one hundred
              cases and is doing now.
            Sir, I don't propose following the example of gentlemen and discuss this case at
              length at all. I propose to do nothing of the sort, with the temper in which this
              discussion is conducted and the party feeling that is manifested. We are told that no
              business is to be done without this question being thrust in. All I have to say is
              this, gentlemen must act upon their own responsibility. If they think it more
              important to sit here and, to use a common phrase, fillibuster about a question to be
              decided in a few days than to go on and pass the necessary acts of legislation, that
              is a matter they are responsible to their constituents for. The other side have the
              means of protecting themselves. In the first place we are in the right; we have law
              and justice upon our side, and it does begin to look a little as though this great
              clamor was made to cover up an investigation into this charge of bribery. It begins to
              wear the appearance as though these gentlemen who began so smoothly were afraid to
              meet the charges against Mr. Burson. But, sir, the charges will be investigated. And
              for myself, I wish to give notice to gentlemen on the other side, that if legislation
              is to be obstructed here in this manner according to the intimation that has been
              thrown out, I suppose about as many of their bills may be found laying on the table as
              the bills of members on this side; and until this thing is stopped--until a better
              spirit is manifested--I will move to lay upon the table, and call the yeas and nays
              upon it, every bill and every resolution that comes from that side of the House, and I
              hope gentlemen on this side of the House will sustain me in it; and we will see what
              progress will be made in party tactics here.
            I hope gentlemen of the majority from this hour forth will consume as little time in
              speaking as may be; that these long speeches upon party questions may be done. Let us
              put them to shame by our good behaviour. Let them froth and foam and inveigh against
              practices and precedents of their own making, but let us go on with the dignity of
              Senators and do our duty here. If they don't get tired of this business their
              constituents will get tired of them. Now, Mr. President, I ask for the previous
              question.
            The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Gray in the Chair) put the question, but not being able to
              determine from the sound, a division was called for and the secretary counted 19
              senators rising in the affirmative and the same number in the negative; therefore, the
              yeas and nays were demanded and ordered. Pending the roll call--
            Mr. WADGE moved that the name of the senator from Delaware and Madison [Mr. Burson]
              be called.
            Mr. BROWN raised the point of order that this motion cannot be entertained.
            The PRESIDING OFFICER. The position I occupy is well known; I shall certainly order
              his name called.
            Mr. HUGHES. I presume not in the face of the order of the Senate.
            The PRESIDING OFFICER. Yes, sir, I shall.
            Mr. HUGHES. I move to amend the motion that the Senate direct the secretary not to
              call his name.
            Mr. MARTINDALE. I move to lay that motion on the table and call the yeas and
              nays.
            Mr. HOOPER. I rise to a question of order. The motion and amendment are both out of
              order for they were made after the roll call was commenced.
            The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Chair decides that the point of order made by the senator
              from Whitley [Mr. Hooper] is well taken.
            Mr. MARTINDALE. I maintain that it is the duty of the Chair, without motion, upon
              request of the senator from Delaware or any other senator, to call his name, and no
              motion  can be entertained by the Chair to
              prevent a member of this Senate from voting.
            The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Chair was going to state that when in the roll call we
              come to the senator from Delaware if he requests that his name be called the secretary
              should call his name.
            Mr. HUGHES. The secretary is under the order of the Senate, and I suppose he will
              obey the order of the Senate.
            Mr. BROWN. Suppose he don't call it?
            The PRESIDING OFFICER. Then I shall call it--the Chair will call it. (Applause from
              the Republican benches.)
            Mr. MARTINDALE. I ask that the President call his name.
            Mr. BROWN. I object.
            Mr. HUGHES. I insist that the senator from Marion is going ahead--
            Mr. MARTINDALE (interrupting.) I ask again that the name of the senator from Delaware
              be called.
            Mr. HUGHES. If the Chair decides that he is to be called I appeal from the
              decision.
            Mr. MARTINDALE. I ask that he be called.
            The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Chair has once or twice ordered the secretary to call his
              name.
            Mr. HUGHES. I have not heard the secretary call the name and I don't presume he will.
              He is under the order of the Senate. The secretary is not under the order of the
              Chair.
            Mr. HOOPER. I will read the rule. [He read rule 19--see page 406 BREVIER REPORTS volume XI.] Now I insist it to be the duty
              of every senator to vote; [here the Lieutenant Governor took the Chair] and any
              senator has the right to demand that the name of the senator from Delaware be called.
              It is not a motion but simply a question of right.
            Mr. HUGHES. The senator from Delaware has not been regularly sworn in.
            Mr. MARTINDALE. I rise to a point of order. There is nothing before the Senate for
              gentlemen to discuss. I demand simply that the name of the senator be called.
            Mr. HUGHES. I am speaking to a question of privilege. The Chair has gone as far as
              consistent and proper in rendering to Mr. Burson all the aid he can, but the Senate
              has decided the name should not be called.
            Mr. MARTINDALE. I rise to a point of order. There is nothing the gentleman can
              discuss on the call of the roll. I demanded that the name of the senator from Delaware
              be called, and upon that he proceeded to discuss my demand.
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I did not know this question was coming up or I should not
              have been absent from the Chair. I understand that a member a few moments ago did
              demand that the occupant of the Chair should call the name of the senator from
              Delaware; and I understood the President to say that he recognized the fact that the
              senator from Delaware was a senator in this body. I hold to that same opinion, the
              vote of the Senate to the contrary notwithstanding, but I can imagine no possible good
              to rise to the Senate or the senator from Delaware to have his name called, because I
              recognize the fact that the Senate has power to correct its journals, and it is not in
              the power of the Presiding Officer to put a name on the journals and keep it there
              against the will of a majority of the Senate.
            SEVERAL SENATORS--"Announce the vote."
            Mr. MARTINDALE. Before the vote is announced I ask--
            Mr. BROWN. I rise to a point of order.
            Mr. MARTINDALE (continuing.) If the Chair decides not to call the name of the senator
              from Delaware, and will not call it, I want to know whether the senator desires to be
              excused from voting or not?
            The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. I overrule the point of order raised by the senator from
              Marion [Mr. Martindale] for the reason that it is no part of the duty of the Chair to
              call the name of any senator. The yeas are 24, nays 23--so the demand for the previous
              question is seconded by the Senate.
            The motion to indefinitely postpone, &c--see page 108, about twenty lines from
              the bottom of the first column.
          
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Wabash and Erie Canal--Debate in Continuation.
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            TUESDAY, January 24, 1871.
          
          
            [IN CONTINUATION FROM NEAR THE BOTTOM OF PAGE
              148.]
          
          Mr. NEFF, from the Special Committee to whom was referred his Joint Resolution H. R. 1,
            [printed on page 111] and the Joint Resolution S. 1, [printed on page 107] returned the
            same with a recommendation that the latter be adopted.
          Mr. NEFF then said: Mr. Speaker, I move that the resolution [see page 107] be adopted,
            and upon that I desire to submit a few remarks. I will promise the House that I will be
            very brief. As this is a question that necessary involves very grave considerations and
            one that will elicit, to a great extent, the attention not only of the people of the
            State of Indiana but of every other part of the country. I have felt desirous of being
            heard upon it here. The subject requires no extended argument, unless I should endeavor
            to go over the entire history of all the matters and things involved from the begining,
            and now pointing to the necessity of the adoption of this resolution. I am sorry to say
            that the public mind has been agitated to a greater extent than it naturally should have
            been. Still the fact cannot be disguised that there are apprehensions--aye serious
            apprehensions--in the minds of the people of the State in regard to this question, upon
            which the House is about to act. The adoption of this constitutional amedment I will, in
            my judgmsht, serve to put the public mind at rest. If we adopt this amendment to the
            Constitution, it is simply complying with the contract entered into between the
            creditors and the State a quarter of a century ago.
          The people expect us to publish to the world by the highest and most solemn act known
            to the Legislature, that we will stand by our contract of settlement, and further to
            declare, by having it engrafted upon the organic law of the State that we will not pay
            the canal certificates, amounting to $17,000,000, and take back the canal. This question
            of taking back the canal and assuming the vast canal debt has agitated the people and
            entered largely into the political canvasses of 1870.
          Notwithstanding Governor Baker recommended the passage of this constitutional amendment
            in his annual message in January 1869, and a majority of the House, of his own polities,
            sat here for one hundred and one days without ever offering a resolution, yet in the
            late canvass the opposition charged on every stump, and in the columns of every paper
            that if the Democrats secured the Legislature, we would take back the canal and saddle
            the State with the canal debt.
          The people, however, disregarding their warnings, sent up a majority of Democrats. And
            in accordance with what I thought was right, and what I knew my constituents demanded,
            and to repel the base and unfounded calumny that was charged upon my party in the
            canvass, I was standing at my seat, and when the Speaker declared the House organized,
            the first time his name was called I offered this proposition, [see page 111] and feel
            assured that every Democrat on this floor will support it. I believe the opposition will
            support it also; but as they failed to pass an amendment when they had the Legislature
            two years ago, I wanted them to follow us in the measure.
          It is true that under the provisions of the Coustitution we can make but slow progress
            in changing it. But it is well enough. Per-  haps
            it would have been well if the Great Charter of American Liberty had had the same guards
            thrown around it, and thereby prevented the reckless Constitutional tinkers from
            changing for partisan purposes the Constitution of our fathers. This proposition, if it
            is passed here, will be referred to the General Assembly which will meet two years
            hence. In the meantime the question will go to the people, and we will say to our
            constituents with regard to the agitation of this long ago adjusted matter, we have
            attempted to place it in such a condition that it may be forever settled by you. I say,
            Mr. Speaker, if we adopt this amendment we will be justified by the people. I speak not
            now as a party man. I speak for the people of Putnam county, when I say we ought to
            adopt the proposition for this constitutional amendment. Right here, on my table, I find
            a memorial from these old canal bondholders asking and importuning this Legislature to
            say by a public act that they may be allowed to sue the State, drag our sovereignty into
            the courts and prosecute their claims against her.
          Mr. Speaker, I purpose for a few moments to call the attention of the House to the
            opinions and declarations of men of the highest authority in the State, speaking and
            acting contemporaneously with those acts of legislation by which the bondholders of the
            State effected a settlement. What was the understanding at that time by the State's
            creditors the people and those exercising their highest authority? I say, sir, that when
            we settled with this Canal company, we paid the utmost farthing of the old Internal
            Improvement debt. The members of the Legislatures of those years were met with censure
            when they went home, for having treated so liberally with the bondholders. It affords me
            pleasure, as the representative from Putnam, to allude to the Hon. Henry Secrest, now
            deceased, who bore so distinguished a part in effecting the adjustment of '46 and
            '47.
          It was mainly through his influence; his eloquence, his consummate ability and untiring
            labors, that the settlement was made which relieved the State from her financial
            troubles, and gave her that prosperity of which we are all so justly proud. To satisfy
            the people he prepared and introduced the thirty-second section by way of amendment to
            the Butler bill, allowing the State at any time within twenty years thereafter, to take
            back the canal, and take up the certificates of stock issued to the company. The history
            of the case shows that when this settlement was made,it was considered that the canal
            and its effects were worth about nine millions of money. The State entered into this
            final agreement with her creditors. She agreed to surrender the Wabash and Erie Canal to
            the bondholders, and at the same time agreed to execute certificates of indebtedness to
            them for one-half the amount of the debt--then about thirteen millions of dollars That
            was the basis of settlement. The bondholders took the Wabash and Erie Canal, its
            property and its lands and franchises, for one-half the State's Internal Improvement
            debt, and the other half the State agreed to pay, and has paid it. She has therefore
            kept her faith.
          There are papers connected with the settlement expressly stating that the canal and its
            interests then owned by the State, were worth at least nine millions, and the amount of
            the debt then assumed by the State was six and a quarter millions. Now, Mr. Speaker, can
            we in good faith adopt this joint resolution? Will we act in good faith to the
            bondholders? Will we violate any plighted faith? Will we wrong any individual? I take
            the position that we will not. And I take the contemporaneous testimony of public men,
            and the public documents of that time to show that this was a final settlement of the
            matter. I read an extract from Gov. Whitcomb's message, delivered to both Houses of the
            General Assembly on the 8th of December, 1846:
          In relation to the proposed arrangement for the payment of the State debt, and the
            completion of the Wabash and Erie Canal, as authorized by the act which was passed at
            the last session of the Legislature, I have the satisfaction to state that a letter was
            received by me in the early part of July last, from Mr. Palmer of London, bearing date
            of the 13th day of May, 1846, enclosing a copy of two resolutions of that date, which
            had been adopted by the Committee of bondholders in London, under whose authority Mr.
            Charles Butler had acted in submitting propositions in their behalf, resulting in the
            passage of the bill in question. In these resolutions (which, with Mr. Palmer's letter,
            are herewith submitted) it will be seen that the opinion is expressed, that it will be
            for the interest of the bondholders to concur in the principle of that arrangement, by
            the payment of one-half of the principal and interest of the debt by taxation, and the
            other half by the property and tolls of the Canal, from tne State line adjoining Ohio to
            Evansville, such property to be assigned to three trustees, and the State to be freed
            from responsibility on that portion of the debt owed, and interest soon to be
            secured.
          What else did the State give to these bondholders besides this Canal of more than three
            hundred miles in length? Why, Mr. Speaker, the State had a donation from Congress to
            this Canal of eight hundred thousand acres of land, which, to-day, at the appraisement
            is worth sixteen millions of money; and this immense interest was conveyed to the
            bondholders.
          And yet they come here, under the pretense of good faith to the people, and say to us
            that we ought to allow them to prosecute the State of Indiana--allow them to bring their
            action in the courts of the State for claims that we have thus settled with them and
            paid them in good faith.
          A few years previous to that time, all the sanguine friends of internal improvement
            looked forward to the time when we would be a 
            people without taxation. But they were deceived. I am not here to reflect on them for
            that. They were noble spirits--high-minded men. I am not here to stir the dust of those
            who have passed away.
          I say this was the payment of the bondholders. They took all the Canal and half their
            bonds. And now they say that we have failed to keep our promise to them--in this: that
            we have suffered and permitted railroads--that we have incorporated railroad companies,
            who have built these roads all over the country. They claim that we should have left the
            Canal to them without competition, and because we have not done that therefore we have
            violated our faith! Now, here is what Governor Whitcomb said in his annual message to
            the General Assembly that met next after the passage of these acts of settlement:
          But while the original bill gave the State the option of afterwards throwing one-half
            the principal also, upon the Canal for payment, by the supplemental bill, (and
            consequently by the law as it now stands,) that object is at once effected, by one-half
            of the surrendered debt both principal and interest, resting exclusively upon the Canal
            for payment, the State being released from all further responsibility in relation to it.
            The great and leading principle of the first bill, namely the satisfying of one-half of
            the surrendered debt from the Canal, remains unchanged, nor does the supplementary bill
            involve the State any further in debt. The main difference between the bills consists in
            the latter giving to the bondholders, who should finish the Canal, a priority in the
            payment of their claims and expenses of its construction out of the tolls and profits,
            over those who would not join in its construction.
          This is the languague of no common man. I am proud of the thought no State ever had an
            abler, truer, or more zealous friend than James Whitcomb, the Jefferson of Indiana. By
            this extract you will see what party it was that came forward and subscribed the
            settlement, agreeing to finish the Wabash and Erie Canal to Evansville, for which it
            would require some two or three millions of money; and they agreed that those who should
            come forward and make this subscription should be first paid out of the proceeds of the
            Canal. But Gov. Whitcomb says further:
          The final arrangement of our public debt can not fail to exercise a favorable influence
            upon the property, the morals, and the character of the State, and is the cause of
            heartfelt congratulations will all. We have suffered much through past improvidence; may
            we never neglect the lessons it has taught us.
          And in the same message, and on the same page, he says:
          If capitalists would not be justified in risking their means in the construction of a
            particular work or works, the State, now just emerging from insolvency, should not be
            required to do so. The level surface and fertile soil of Indiana, offer great
            inducements to the construction of railroads with a view to profit, and the most
            profitable because the most needed, will be first undertaken. When constructed by
            private or associated means there is less extravagance, and less danger of the
            faithlessness of agents than if they were constructed by the State.
          I will now read an extract from the report of the Hon. Henry Secrest, from the select
              Joint Committee of the two Houses of the General Assembly,
            recommending the passage of the [Butler] bill of January 1846. He says in his
            report.
          Taking then, this last proposition of the agent of the bondholders, with the
            modifications of the first proposition embodied in it, as the result of a compromise of
            opinion on his part, and of the settled opinion entertained on the other part, it may be
            regarded as forming the basis of an arrangement, and the undersigned has no hesitation
            in recommending it as such to the favorable consideration of the House.
          This proposition is substantially to release the general revenues of the State and her
            public faith from one-half of the entire funded debt, and making the same a charge
            against the entire Erie, Wabash and Ohio canal, in Indiana. In effect, this is the same
            as taking one-half of the public debt from the shoulders of our tax-payers, and placing
            it upon this canal.
          Mr. Secrest, of Putnam, who reported this bill, said it is, in effect, taking one-half
            of the public debt from the shoulders of our tax payers and placing it upon the canal.
            He says, further:
          In addition, the bondholders are willing to take the canal and its lands, (not
            absolutely, but in trust;) and finish the work through to the Ohio River, advancing
            one-third or more of the cost of completion in cash, and using the lands for the balance
            so far as practicable; and taking their recourse for this advance, not against the
            State, but only against the lands and revenues of the canal; thus advancing money to the
            canal on the security of the Congress grants of lands, without imposing any further debt
            upon the State; but on the contrary, in effect, leaving our debt less by one-half than
            it now is.
          Before I sit down I desire to call the attention of the House to a short extract from a
            report submitted by one of the resident trustees of this canal, who has been a trustee
            on the part of the bondholders for the last twenty years, as further proof of what was
            said and understood at the time of these proceedings. I allude to the Hon. Thomas
            Dowling, of Terre Haute, and I read from the State Sentinel of Feb. 5, 1846. He
            says:
          
            The bondholders agree to take the canal, its revenues and the lands donated
              by Congress for its construction, and discharge the State absolutely from one-half of
              the entire debt of the State or about six and a half millions of dollars.
            They pledge themselves to finish the canal from Coal Creek to Evansville in
              four years, and to make all needful side cuts and feeders, as provided in the several
              acts for the prosecution of the same.
          
          Then, sir, I submit to the members of this House, has there been any bad faith on the
            part of the State of Indiana toward her bondholders? Did we not pay them as we agreed to
            do? I insist that all this has been done in fairness and honesty. It is notorious that
            this settlement with creditors was sought, was enacted at the request of the
            bondholders. They importuned the people for this arrange-  ment, and it was considered as more favorable to them than
            to the people of Indiana.
          I will now close with a single remark: It has been charged all over this State that
            this Legislature would assume the payment of this old canceled debt. Let us refute this
            charge by submitting this question to the people, and let them decide it.
          Mr. MILES. Mr. Speaker: I do not desire to amplify this discussion by any extended
            remarks. My only purpose in rising is simply to submit to the consideration of the House
            and the country, my honest convictions in relation to the speedy passage of the
            amendment to the Constitution of the State under consideration, which I deem of vital
            importance, as it affects very materially the entire population of this great and
            growing State. And being desirous that its progress may not be retarded by assuming
            inequitable and unjust pecuniary obligations, no personal considerations have impelled
            me, only the desire I hold in common with her citizens, to promote her honor and
            prosperity.
          The assumption of sixteen million dollars is no trivial matter to the already
            tax-ridden people of the State. With all her embarrassments she has ever faithfully
            fulfilled her obligations at home and abroad, and has never allowed the language of
            "repudiation" to be written upon the face of her rising glory. In times gone by which
            were prolific with civil commotions, she sustained among her sister States an enviable
            reputation. Her sons have wedded their names to victory on every battlefield they drew
            the sword, and she shines to-day as a star of the first magnitude in her reliability for
            her contracts, her wisdom in counsel and valor in armor. Her renown is such as to excite
            pride and admiration in the hearts of her people, and they would not say one word that
            would tender in the least to tarnish her lustre.
          The populace are looking with anxious yet hopeful solicitude to this General Assembly
            to pass an amendment to the Constitution of the State to be submitted to them, which
            will forever preclude further legislation upon this subject. I flatter myself I know the
            mind of the people, and will say if they are permitted to vote upon the amendment they
            will, in my judgment, bury the craven and unjust demands of the bondholders of the
            Wabash and Erie Canal so deep that the trump of the Archangel will never resurrect it.
            And any man or set of men that dare advocate, directly or indirectly, in any way, the
            assumption of the debt of said canal, or any part thereof not specified in the Butler
            bills, will be glad to hide his blushing face in obscurity ere five yeasr shall have
            dawned.
          We owe this to the people who have been so generous and confiding as to send us here.
            They demand, and they have a right to demand, at our hands, being their public servants,
            relief from the anxiety that is everywhere manifested, and will continue till there is a
            final adjustment of this question by the contract in the funded acts of 1846-7, commonly
            known as the "Butler Bills."
          When this matter was adjusted, the bonded debt of the State amounted to about fourteen
            million dollars,principal and interest. The State being embarrassed with this debt, they
            entered into this contract in order to place the financial condition of the State on a
            more healthy basis, which agreement was accepted in good faith by the State as a final
            adjustment of the then existing debt of the State, and was accepted by the bondholders,
            through Mr. Butler, their agent, who claimed to represent the bondholding interest, as a
            finality. By this agreement the old bonds were to be surrendered, and in lieu thereof
            the State was to issue new bonds to the amount of half her indebtedness, to be paid by
            the people by taxation. By this contract the other half of the old debt was paid by the
            transfer of the Wabash and Erie Canal and the land granted by Congress, eighty thousand
            acres, valued at that time at two million four hundred thousand dollars. And further,
            said bondholders were to finish said canal to Evansville by a specified time, and for
            the moneys so advanced and expended to complete the canal to Evansville, the lands so
            received, tolls and revenues, were their only security, and the faith of the State was
            in no wise further pledged.
          Their only security, solely and exclusively was the said canal lands, and the tolls and
            revenues of said canal. (Acts of 1846, page 6, sec. 8, and sec. 32, p. 16, same act.)
            You will clearly perceive that these two sections contain the gist of the contract,
            which plainly demonstrates that the faith of the State is not pledged for their payment.
            And further, when they accepted this canal they took it subject to all then existing
            liens, and I cannot see why the State should be held liable, or how the holders of these
            old Internal Improvement bonds can come in with good grace at this time, after remaining
            as still as death for nearly twenty-five years and not even raising their voices when
            this contract was entered into.
          It does seem to me that this great lapse of time should be considered, to a great
            extent as an acquiescence in the agreement of 1846-7; and, sir, this long delay of Mr.
            Garrett et al. by failing to institute proceedings long ago, shows
            beyond question, they consider themselves, to some extent, bound by the contract so
            made. Sir, I take the position that the State is not liable for the payment of these old
            Internal Improvement bonds held by Mr. Garrett et al., according to
            the contract, unless they be surrendered in compliance with the act of 1847, section
            eight. As you will perceive, if we made arrangements to pay those  outstanding bonds in full, we would go beyond the contract,
            and we have no right to assume any of them, or act at all in the matter till the
            contract with the State and the bondholders of the Wabash and Erie Canal is complied
            with.
          This is a grave question, and we should be careful to act ou the defensive because it
            is safer for the people. Let us not act in haste. If the bonds held by Mr. Garrett and
            others are claims that we ought to take cognizance of, they certainly will not loose
            anything by waiting, and it certainly will be time enough for the State to pay these
            outstanding bonds held by Mr. Garrett et al., when the courts adjudge
            that the State is responsible for their payment, and not the bondholders of the Wabash
            and Erie Canal. I say then will be time enough for the State to make provisions for
            their payment. We are not acting here in a judicial capacity, but, sir, we are here to
            act as we believe to be for the best interest of the people, by enacting wholesome and
            just laws. If we err let us err on the side of the hard working yoemanry of the country,
            and leave to the courts the responsibility to decide as to the constitutionality of the
            act.
          Under the contract between the State and her creditors I submit there is nothing in the
            funded act of 1846-7 that required the State to defend the sale of said canal against
            former liens or liabilities. But, sir, the creditors of the State, were advised as to
            the liens upon the canal, and accepted the canal subject to those liens. The holders of
            the Wabash and Erie Canal bonds assumed obligations embodied in the Butler bill in
            regard to those Internal Improvement bonds that were not surrendered, and the State is
            bound by the contract to make no payment of the Internal Improvement bonds that did not
            come in to the compromise, except as provided in the Butler bills. I am willing and
            ready to carry out these acts to the letter and spirit.
          If they demand more, I, for one say to them, "Ne plus ultra." I am
            not willing to assume liabilities on behalf of the State that the contract does not
            specifically imply, or that will tend in any way to invalidate the agreement so as to
            place the creditors in "statu quo."
          This, I claim, was a fair contract entered into by parties capable to contract in the
            fullest acceptation of the term, with a sufficient consideration. They being advised as
            to the liabilities, it is too late now for them to take advantage of their own wrong,
            (which is an established principle of law,) unless there be fraud shown; and in their
            long and laborious memorial to this General Assembly, they do not pretend to say there
            was anything of the kind. Let us pass this, and the people, "una voce"
            will send up shouts of joy, saying, "Well done, thou good and faithful servants." They
            will consider this act as the dawning of better days, that will tend to a great extent,
            to ease the standard of legislative bodies from the foul imputation of being bought and
            sold like sheep in the market. When these outstanding bonds are surrendered according to
            the contract, the State will be ready to meet her liabilities.
          Mr. Speaker, this whole matter assimulates into this kind of a case. When an individual
            owes, say twelve men, each of whom have a mortgage lien upon his manufacturing
            establishment, and he fails to pay, and thereupon ten of the men say to him, if you will
            arrange for the payment of half of your liabilities in money, at a future day, we will
            take your manufacturing establishment for the other half. He accepts and transfers the
            establishment to them; of course they take it subject to the mortgage of the other two;
            for the whole debt due to these two, and surely no principle of equity would compel the
            debtor to ever pay more than one-half the sum so due to those two men. This is the view
            I take of the matter.
          If even I feel conscious of being on the side of justice, I would not knowingly do
            anything to reflect upon the honor of the State. I have as much State pride as any
            member upon this floor, having breathed my first breath upon her soil, and I indulge the
            hope that her prosperity may continue to increase as time rolls on. My only desire is to
            know what is just and act accordingly. The surest status I can recommend to members upon
            this floor to govern their actions in this matter, in the language of Shakespeare,
            is--
          
            "Poise the cause in justice's equal scales,
            Whose beam stands sure, whose rightful cause prevails."
          
          Mr. McDONALD. Mr. Speaker, I had not intended to say anything on this question, but as
            a distinguished man once said: "We are making history;" I must be allowed to say that we
            also are making history here, and we must be allowed to recur to its events. I shall ask
            but five minutes' time to give my opinion.
          Sir, I shall vote for the adoption of this joint resolution, first because it is right
            and just. I am aware that some people say--and they have said--that the Democratic party
            in this State would propose--whenever they might come partially into power--to resume
            that old contract with a certain set of bondholders of the State, and thereby bring
            again upon the people of Indiana a debt which was paid long ago of many millions of
            dollars. But I do not esteem that any such question is involved in this matter. It is
            simply a question of right and wrong, and the single object is, to do right.

          

          I propose to vote for this joint resolution, and send it to the people, that they may
            know, by this public act, that we are true to their interests in this House. I care but
            little, sir, about any display of oratory that may be made on this floor. Let us come
            forward in right honest words and say that the men who have made this charge have lied
            against the Democratic party. I, sir, and you have heard it. It has been published in my
            section and in your section. It was charged in the campaign by the Indiana State Journal, and repeated by the lesser lights of the press in the same
            partisan interest all over the State, that if the Democratic party should come into
            power the State of Indiana would be sold out--would be saddled with that old debt of
            $16,000,000. Now, sir, is the time for it to be shown that we, as Democrats will act
            honestly to demonstrate the groundlessness of this charge by our spleeny traducers; and
            I for one, will hurl it back with indignation.
          You will recollect, sir, that when our State convention met here last January, there
            was nothing said about this question. But just as soon as the convention dissolved and
            its members returned home, this charge was heralded by the State Journal, and that honest man and his advisers in the lower room of this building
            folded their arms and shut their mouths in regard to what that man did two years ago.
            But they came before the people and declared that the Democratic party were in favor of
            that immense swindle. Now, I propose to say by my vote here that this question shall go
            to the peoplethat my people and all the people of the State who are equally interested
            with ourselves may investigate it and act upon it. I propose to say by my uote here that
            the two millions of dollars intended to be expended upon this question can have no
            effect upon the Democratic party, and the honest portion of the Republican party in this
            General Assembly.
          Why, sir, I have been told that we were to be bought; that there were two millions of
            dollars to buy us! And I will say this much only about this matter, that though I am a
            poor man, these bloated corruptionists have not got money enough to buy me. I will dig
            with my hands, and my wife and children shall dig and suffer beggary before it shall be
            said that these insidious bondholders of the State have purchased my vote here. Then let
            us pass this joint resolution, and let it be demonstrated to the world--not only to the
            people of Indiana, but to the people of the world, and especially to our traducers on
            every side, that we know the right and that we dare to do it. I very much regret to
            mention this matter here; but I have a perfect right to do so, and, while I say these
            things, I want every gentleman on the other side of the House to be asurred that I
            respect them as gentlemen and as members of this body. But I want them to come forward
            now and show their hands. I want them to say that they meant what they said in their
            convention of February, 1870--that they will not be constrained as that convention
            was--to say nothing of the act of their Governor in the year before.
          Yes sir, we have been told that this immense debt is to be eventually saddled upon the
            people of Indiana. I only refer to this matter that it may be treated with the scorn and
            contempt which it deserves. But we have been told that eventually the politicians here
            would be brought up! Sir, I am not prepared to receive that doctrine but I am prepared
            to repudiate it.
          I will say then, let us leave this question where it properly belongs--with the people;
            and if they say this amendment shall not be passed--shall not be adopted into the
            Constitution as the finality of a matter which has been deliberately and honestly
            settled--then Mr. Speaker, we shall not have failed in the preformance of our official
            duty as servants of the people. It is simply to throw the responsibility upon the
            shoulders of the people, to be settled by that silent monitor--the ballot. And if the
            people of the State shall second and sanction this solemn act of their representatives,
            then let those men who have corruptly assailed them, go into the courts with their
            claims and we propose to follow them.
          And I will say here in my place, as a member of the House of Representatives, that I
            will vote the necessary means to Governor Baker to follow them into any court where they
            may see proper to submit their claims. And they may send out as many marked copies of
            their briefs and memorials as they choose; but let them be assured that we will "meet
            them again at Philippi". Having adopted this proposition, Mr. Speaker we can retire in
            the consciousness that we have done what we conceive to be right; and if we have erred,
            it is not an error of the spirit. Let us pass this resolution, and show the people that
            we trust them, and say to them with an honest and open face, we have done the best we
            could.
          The resolution was adopted nem con.
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Wabash and Erie Canal--Debate in Continuation.
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            WEDNESDAY, January 25, 1871.
          
          
            [IN CONTINUATION FROM NEAR THE TOP OF THE SECOND COLUMN PAGE
              152.]
          
          Mr. HUGHES. Mr. President: I move that it be rejected. We have just had one bill [see
            pages 161 and 162] in the hand writing of the Governor disposed of, in which it is
            proposed that this State shall go into court and be used to protect the canal not only
            in the suits now pending but in what might hereafter be commenced. What have we to fear
            from suits founded upon these bonds? It is an extraordinary proposition.
          The reason why I move to reject this bill [see page 152] is that it proposes to
            authorize the Governor and other officers of State to pay off the bonds, at their face,
            I presume. Now I wish to know if is not known to Senators here that a number of these
            bonds have fifty years to run, and are not yet due. On the bonds that have fifty years
            to run there is nothing due but interest, and here is a proposition to anticipate the
            debt and pay it before it is due, unless I am under a mistake as to the matter of fact.
            I think after the other bill was disposed of in the summary manner it was, this bill is
            entitled to no better fate at the hands of this body.
          We have heard a good deal said about money influence being brought to bear to corrupt
            legislation. The word "bribery" has been freely used in connection with this subject as
            far as this body is concerned, for the past few weeks. While there seems to be a
            difference of opinion as to the question of law in the payment of the Internal
            Improvement bonds, no man has been found with the recklessness to say that there is any
            obligation, legal or moral, to pay these bonds that have fifty years to run. That is the
            proposition of this bill as I understand it; if I am wrong, I want the Senator from
            Marion to correct me.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. There is some general reference to settling these bonds; the exact
            amount I do not know; nor do I understand that the bill requires the officers to act in
            any specified time.
          Mr. HUGHES. I take that as a concession that I am right. It will be time enough to
            authorize the State officers to pay the debt when it becomes due. I move that the bill
            be rejected.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. Mr. President: I do not wish to discuss this question. I have avoided
            its discussion every time it has come before the Senate. But there is one fact that is
            staring us in the face; and that is that part of these bonds of 1841 I believe are now
            due, and there is an additional amount due that is named in the suit instituted in
            Carroll county. The Wabash and Erie Canal, it is conceded, its tolls and revenues have
            been pledged for the payment of that debt. These bonds might have been surrendered under
            the Butler legislation but were not, and there is no authority of law to compel parties
            to surrender them under that legislation.
          I do not wish to go into the discussion of whether the canal is liable or not; upon
            that subject we have an exhaustive argument, in the first place by the Governor and then
            a well digested legal document from eminent legal gentlemen, giving such as their
            opinion, and I am willing to stand by that; and I simply say I will do all in my power
            during the present session of the legislature to make such provision as will prevent the
            sale of the canal before another session of the Legislature. If it is not done it does
            not necessarily follow that  the State is thereby
            bound for the payment of eighteen millions of dollars;I do not take that position; but I
            say the argument made by the Governor in his message is true. [See pages 32-37.] As far
            as I now know this is all the bill I will introduce upon the subject of the Wabash and
            Erie Canal; if gentlemen have other propositions to protect this property let them
            introduce them.
          Mr. DWIGGINS. I am not in favor of paying off these bonds till they become due, but I
            hope the gentleman from Monroe will withdraw his motion and let this bill go to the
              Judiciary Committee, and let it be reported back to the Senate so
            that we may reach the direct question.
          Mr. HUGHES. The Senator from Marion [Mr. Martindale] some time ago said he desired to
            stamp this whole canal bond business with such a mark of disapprobation on the part of
            the Senate that he was not willing to give any vote indicating any seriousness on the
            canal branch of the debt.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. I believe on three different occasions the Senator has applied that
            remark to the whole canal question, and on two different occasions I have corrected it
            and stated that I alluded then specifically to the bonds referred to in that memorial
            then in the hands of the Judiciary Committee.
          Mr. HUGHES. I corrected the gentleman on both occasions and had the resolution read
            which covered the whole subject; but the Senator is entitled to his own explanation. I
            just mean to say that upon this question--with regard to this bill, I feel as he did
            then, that I not only am not inclined to entertain the proposition seriously but want to
            mark it with the disapprobation of the body and mark it emphatically. And I have the
            right to take this position for I stand committed to pay every dollar of this internal
            improvement debt that is due. I will vote for any clean bill to that effect without
            asking a question.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. I will ask whether the gentleman will consent that this bill may be
            referred to the Judiciary Committee, of which he is Chairman, and be
            made clean?
          Mr. HUGHES. No, sir, for the man who drew that bill--nobody else than the
            Governor--understands this debt as well as I, perhaps better, and he drew the other
            bill;--they are both in his handwriting;--I am his personal friend, and almost can say
            his political friend, but, sir, a great alarm has been raised here about the danger of
            the State being involved in the sale of the Wabash and Erie Canal. That is the whip that
            is continually cracked over this Legislature. Every body can conceive at once that the
            Wabash and Erie Canal would be in no danger from being sold for the payment of the State
            debt if we pay it, and we have said we would pay it. Now having committed ourselves to
            this proposition, here comes a bill in the Governor's handwriting proposing that we
            shall undertake the defense of suits instituted against the canal and make the State a
            party to not only that suit in Carroll county but any other that may be instituted on
            the same subject or on the Wabash and Erie Canal bonds.
          Mr. STEELE. I understand there is no such thing in this bill.
          Mr. HUGHES. I know there is not, because they have come down a peg. If they can't get a
            whole loaf they will take a half one. Now, sir, with all my high appreciation of
            Governor Baker's integrity and ability, no man can make me believe that either he or any
            intelligent Senator on this floor did'nt know they were proposing here, under the form
            of solemn legislation, to authorize the Governor and State officers to pay a debt that
            don't fall due for twenty years. The people of Indiana are pretty well off, but not that
            rich. The worst paymasters in the world are those who pay in advance. Let the interest
            of that debt be paid up and the Canal will be in no danger, because they cannot sue on
            these bonds until they are due. Now I want to ask for information, what is the amount of
            these sterling bonds not yet due?
          Mr. BROWN. One hundred and twenty-four is the number stated--
          Mr. HUGHES. Let us see, what is the amount?
          Mr. BROWN. One thousand dollars each.
          Mr. HUGHES. One hundred and twenty-four of one thousand dollars each, that won't be due
            for twenty years. One hundred and twenty-four thousand dollars on which nothing is due
            except interest unpaid. After one bill has been rejected we have a proposition more
            mischevious still, more insidious in form, and whoever supposed it would pass this body
            must have presumed largely upon the ignorance of Senators upon public affairs. I say let
            us reject this bill also.
          This begins to look a little like a stock jobbing operation. Two years ago we got an
            official recommendation from the Governor against the payment of these bonds, and now
            this winter, we have got his recommendation directly to the contrary. After we pledged
            ourselves to take his last recommendation and pay the bonds, he gets in a bill asking us
            to pay one hundred and twenty-four thousand dollars of bonds that ain't due for twenty
            years yet. It is a good thing that parliamentary law has provided for a motion to reject
            a bill. Let us reject this bill and perhaps the next one will contain a provision to pay
            the bonds actually due.
          Mr. STEELE. Mr. President: My friend from Monroe objects to this bill because it
            proposes to pay certain bonds which he says are not due. I would just ask the gentleman
            whether the bill is in more general terms than  the
            amendment that was offered by himself here the other day to the resolution of the
            Senator from Jackson?
          Mr. HUGHES. I will answer. The resolution was in general terms that we would pay the
            old internal improvement bonds. Of course not to pay them before they were due, but when
            it comes to a bill, we have to perfect it in detail.
          Mr. STEELE. I will read the resolution as amended by the gentleman from Monroe, and see
            if he was so very particular to guard everything that might look towards injuring the
            State. [Mr. S. reads the resolution printed at the top of page 83.]
          Mr. HUGHES. Does the Senator contend that that resolution committed the Senate to
            anything further than paying the bonds according to their terms?
          Mr. STEELE. I regard it to be in terms as general as that in the bill, and I will ask
            the gentleman whether he considers from the wording of the bill that the officers of
            State would be required to pay these bonds before they are due?
          Mr. HUGHES. I do not know that they are required to pay them before they are due, but I
            know they are authorized to pay them. All go out of office in two years and I take it
            for granted, as a common sense proposition that those officers do not expect to wait
            twenty years to carry out the provisions of the bill.
          Mr. STEELE. I see no difference and I cannot see how the gentleman will escape from the
            position he has put himself in. He first resolves in general terms that he will pay the
            bonds and when a bill is offered to pay them without requiring when it shall be done,
            without limiting the time, whether 1877 or 1887, the time, I believe, when the last
            bonds fall due--he is fearful to make any provision by which they are to be paid for
            fear they will be paid before they fall due.
          I understand the gentleman to assert without qualification that he is in favor of
            paying all of these outstanding bonds, but not willing to pay until such time as these
            bonds fall due, I am with him. I consent to that. If the State is not already able to
            pay these bonds at this time she will do well if she pays them at the time they fall
            due. Every debtor is supposed to have done his whole duty if he pays his debt when it
            falls due. I understand that every debtor who intends to do his duty towards his
            creditors will make provisfon for the payment of his debts as they fall due. And if A, B
            or C employs an agent to pay a debt with the whole subject before him, it is understood
            that the agent will pay that debt when it falls due and not before. I understand that to
            be the scope of such an agency.
          But there has been something said about a bill [see pages 161 and 162] that was
            rejected here:--that it gave general license to the State to be made defendant to every
            suit that might be brought upon these bonds, whether those issued anterior to the
            passage of the bills of 1846-7 or in relation to those other certificates of stock
            issued upon those bonds that were surrendered. I insist upon it as far as that is
            concerned, that the bonds spoken of in that bill are set out--are named--and it is shown
            what bonds they are, and no other, and that the other bill does not in one single letter
            or line proposed that the State shall be made a party in every case where these
            certificates of stock may become in question in the suit; it does not in one single
            section or line propose that the State shall be made defendant to any action in regard
            to it. The bonds where the State might be made a special defendant are specifically set
            out, and there can be no question about it one way or another. But that bill is no
            longer under discussion. The bill before the Senate proposes to pay these bonds; it does
            not say they shall be paid to-day or to-morrow; it does not say when they shall be
            paid.
          There are two kinds of bonds that have never been surrendered under the Butler bills as
            I understand. Part of these bonds are called the General Internal Improvement bonds and
            the other bonds are issued upon the credit of the Wabash and Erie Canal. Some of these
            have not been paid, consequently the two sets of bonds are named in the bill before the
            Senate as I understand it. So far as I am concerned I am ready to vote for any bill that
            proposes to pay these bonds. I do not understand that they shall be paid now--any single
            bond not due--but I do say here should be some legislation by which these bonds may be
            taken up that are already due.
          Mr. HUGHES. I am with you on that.
          Mr. STEELE. It is not only this canal aud and its revenues,its rents and earnings that
            may be made liable in this suit of Mr. Garrett, but all the other public works pledged
            for the redemption of these bonds. Now is there not some reason why these bonds should
            be paid and paid at once? The central canal at Indianapolis is one of these works bound,
            together with various other works that have been sold, and to-day are liable for the
            payment of these bonds. I am willing that the provisions of this bill may be altered or
            amended so as to meet the payment of these bonds when they fall due and not before and
            would be ready to vote for any such bill: bnt I do say it is high time we were looking
            in the direction of making some provision for the payment of these bonds. I repeat, I am
            willing to vote for any bill that will secure this desirable result, but don't think the
            better way is to move to reject these bills because I think they may be amended by the
            appropriate  committee so as to suit the
            fastidiousness of my friend from Monroe.
          Mr. BROWN. Mr. President: I desire to say but word a or two on this question. I shall
            not only vote to reject the bill now pending before the Senate, for the reasons which
            have been so well and completely given by the honorable Senator from Monroe, [Mr.
            Hughes,] but shall vote to reject it for additional reasons. I shall vote to reject it
            because I believe it is at war with the interests of the people of the State of Indiana,
            for the State to voluntarily pay these bonds except in the manner provided in the Butler
            bills.
          Two years ago the Governor thought it was wrong to pay these Internal Improvement
            Bonds, and he gave a reason for it, which reason if sound, and in my judgment it is
            sound, is one that ought to convince any lover of a desire to do right by the people of
            Indiana, that we should keep our hands out of the public treasury for the payment of
            these Internal Improvement bonds. He says: [Mr. B. read from volume X of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS,
            commencing at the top of page 9 of the suffix to the close of the second paragraph.]
          That is what His Excellency said two years ago. He said to recommend the payment of
            these bonds would be giving aid and comfort to an enterprise at war with the interests
            and rights of the people. If His Excellency was right in saying, to do so would bring
            this dire calamity and great disaster upon the people of the State what must I say of
            the present conduct and action of His Excellency, but to say that he is now in the ring
            of the canal bondholders, and desires to bring that calamity upon the State of Indiana,
            and surely I shall not be criticisod for saying it, when I add the fact that in every
            message sent to the General Assembly he has not denied the proposition he laid down in
            his message two years ago. The only logical conclusion to be drawn from his present
            position is that he desires the State shall take back the Wabash and Erie Canal.
          Not only in his message has he shown an unusual anxiety for a Governor to show, but he
            has sent two bills in here in his own handwriting and has chosen my distinguished
            friend, the Senator over the way to introduce one; a bill monstrous in my opinion,a bill
            in direct antagonism and at war with the rights of the people of the State in my
            judgment,a bill that would completely surrender the State of Indiana to the absolute
            jurisdiction and control of a court, not only in reference to suits upon outstanding
            unsurrendered Internal Improvement bonds, but to suits upon bonds that were issued under
            the law surrendering the Internal Improvement bonds. I sincerely hope I am mistaken, but
            I can place no other construction upon the conduct of the Governor than that he desires
            that the State of Indiana shall redeem the Wabash and Erie Canal bonds; and in my
            judgment it will not be safe for those who follow the leadership of the Executive of the
            State to go with us to the bar of public opinion and try this question before that
            bar.
          The twenth-fourth section of the Constitution is as follows: [Mr. B. reads.] After the
            adoption of this Constitution provision is to be made, but His Excellency desires that
            we shall run over the Constitution and make provision for contracts made before the
            adoption of this Constitution. Why is it, if he does not want the State to redeem the
            Wabash and Erie Canal, that he desires to break down the Constitution?
          When His Excellency drafts a bill and sends it to the Senate Chamber or the Hall of the
            House of Representatives, simply because the Governor's hand drew the sentences,
            syllables and lines of the bill, the body is not to be bombarded into the support of the
            bill. When the Executive of the State sends his measures here in the shape of bills or
            otherwise they have no right to call round them, for their influence and their support
            the great power and influences the Executive of the department of State justly controls
            and may properly exercise. It is only his personal character that comes to the rescue of
            the bill the honorable Senator from Marion has been pleased to introduce. There is
            nothing in the Constitution that warrants the Executive in his attempt to overawe the
            General Assembly into a surrender to his opinion upon the subject. This, thank Heaven,
            under our form of Government, is an independent and free co-ordinate department of the
            State Government of Indiana, and there is no power in the Executive to overawe it. With
            all due respect ta the present Executive of Indiana, and with all due regard for the
            high position he occupies, in my judgment, his conduct and anxiety in these premises is
            at least unwarranted if not offensive to the Senate.
          Mr. DWIGGINS. Mr. President: I desire briefly to examine the history oft his whole
            proceeding. In the first place Gov. Baker delivers a message to the General Assembly, in
            which he recommends that provision be made for the payment of these old Internal
            Improvement bonds not surrendered under the Butler bills. Now it is made the duty of the
            Governor, under the Constitution, to inform the Legislature of the facts. The Governor
            has informed the Legislature of the facts in the case, and he tells the Legislature why
            he thinks provision should be made for the payment of the outstanding bonds. What is the
            next step? The Senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown] introduced a certain preamble with
            resolutions thereto; and one of the resolutions is that this Legislature will not make
            provi-  ion for the payment of these bonds. The
            Senator from Monroe [Mr. Hughes] introduces an amendment in which he says this General
            Assembly will make provision for the payment of these bonds. The preamble and resolution
            of the Senator from Jackson were discussed at length, and ably, by him and by other
            honorable gentlemen on this floor. The amendment offered by the Senator from Monroe, was
            also discussed at great length and after a full and fair investigation of the whole
            subject, both by Senators on that side and this, what is the result? The result is the
            amendment of the Senator from Monroe is adopted by a large majority. It is voted for not
            only by members on this side but on that side.
          What is the next step? The Governor has seen fit to have a bill introduced here and the
            Senator from Jackson takes exception, because the Governor has a bill introduced here.
            That is strange doctrine. Any constituent has the right to send a bill to me and I will
            introduce it whether I approve of it or not. Governor Baker is a citizen of the State,
            and more than that, the Governor of the State, whose business it is to look after the
            interests of the State. He sends a bill here to be introduced and because it is in his
            handwriting he is to be brought to the bar of the Senate and lectured for a long hour in
            reference to his action as Governor. I say, as any other citizen he has the right to
            hand a bill to a Senator and request that the bill shall be introduced, and no Senator
            has the right to lecture him for it. I apprehend if any constituent of the Senator from
            Jackson would send a bill here to him he would introduce it whether he approved it or
            not. But these bills have not been introduced in that manner. The Senator from Grant
            [Mr. Steele] introduced one as his bill, and the Senator from Marion [Mr. Martindale]
            introduced one as his bill, and no statement was made that they were introduced by
            request of the Governor or anybody else.
          I can't understand how gentlemen who assert that they are willing this debt should be
            paid off, refuse to amend this bill, as any other bill may be amended by a Committee so
            that it shall only embrace the debt that is due, and not that which is not due. On the
            contrary when the bills are introduced a motion is made at once to reject; and I want to
            say that I never propose to vote on a motion to reject any Senators' bill. It is not
            treating the Senator who introduced the bill with due respect. I never will vote to
            reject a bill. If objectionable I will vote against it when it comes up in order or use
            some other means to defeat it. Let it have a fair chance. I am in favor of voting to pay
            what is now due and the interest thereon.
          Mr. GRAY. Mr. President: I have no desire to discuss this bill at all. I however wish
            to make a few remarks in regard to the bill that has been rejected, [See page 161 and
            162.] I am impelled to do so in consequence of some remarks that have been made by
            Senators who voted to reject the bill. I agree with the Senator from Monroe that there
            is a large number of these bonds not yet due, and perhaps it would not be good policy to
            order their payment.
          Now with regard to what is said about the Governor--I don't propose to get up as a
            defender of His Excellency, but having Committed myself by voting against the rejection
            of this bill I don't intend to be placed in a false position before this Senate and the
            country. It is charged that this bill authorizes the State so be made party to a suit
            and that there may be brought into that suit the Wabash and Erie Canal bonds and thereby
            commit the State and those voting against the rejection of the bill to take back the
            Wabash and Erie Canal. I undertake to say that there is not one line nor word nor
            section that will justify any remark that has been made by Senators on that side of the
            chamber. I don't want to cast any vote looking in that direction at all, for I am in
            favor of shutting every door that will take back the Wabash and Erie Canal or make the
            State liable for these Canal certificates.
          Mr. HUGHES. I believe it is conceded by Senators on both sides that there is no defence
            to that suit; that the bonds will have to be paid and that unless they are paid the
            canal will have to be sold. If judgment is rendered the State could furnish the money as
            if paying her own debt. There is no use of the State taking any risk and going in as a
            defendant when it is conceded that judgment must go against the canal, and it is
            conceded the State has the right to pay off the bonds.
          Mr. GRAY. The Senator from Monroe ought to draft a bill and bring it in and not satisfy
            himself with taking exceptions to every thing that is offered and offer nothing
            himself.
          Mr. HUGHES. If nobody else will bring in a bill clean and pure for paying off these
            bonds I will bring in a bill myself.
          Mr. STEELE. Mr. President: I rise for the purpose of reading from the bill now under
            discussion. I believe we can at all times depend upon the word of the Senator from
            Monroe, and he has informed the Senate that if there is a bill sufficiently guarded and
            one that purposes to pay the debt that is due, he will vote for that bill. I will read
            the third section of the bill and ask the Senator to say whether it is satisfactorily
            guarded. [Mr. S. read sec. 3--see page 152.]
          Mr. HUGHES. The gentleman's construction of the bill differs from mine. The bonds which
            are not due for twenty years are in a previous section specifically decided as being  amongst those which these officers are authorized to
            pay, and taking the two sections together they clearly confer authority upon the
            officers to anticipate payment by twenty years.
          Mr. STEELE. Instead of that I understand that taking the two sections together they
            provide right to the contrary.
          I desire to refer to the argument of the gentleman from Jackson [Mr. Brown.] I want to
            show that he starts out on a false proposition--that he reasons from a false premise;
            and I believe it is a rule in law that if the proposition is false--if the premise is
            not true, the conclusions to be drawn from it never can be. The proposition the argument
            rests upon is this: That the State is not primarily liable here--that she stands as a
            guarantor for the payment of the indebtedness now under discussion:--for the payment of
            these bonds. I think I do not misrepresent the gentleman when I thus state it. I must
            say it is a new principle entirely in law that the State in the case given could
            possible be a guarantor, and for the correctness of the position I occupy, I refer the
            gentleman to all standard law works on guarantor and guarantees. I take it as a position
            that the State cannot be, in regard to these bonds, a guarantor, but it is her
            debt;--that the state is the one that is promising. I refer gentlemen to Fell on
            Guarantees and also to Webster's unabridged Dictionary for definitions.
          Now Mr. President, I submit the matter as far as that is concerned and turn to the law
            that authorized the issuing of these bonds--the very bonds now under discussion and we
            will see who it is making promises. I read from the revised code of 1838, in which the
            internal improvement acts of 1836 are embodied. [Mr. S. reads section 8: "The State
            Canal Fund Commissioners are hereby authorized" &c.] By authority and in the name of
            the State of Indiana these certificates of stocks were issued; for the payment of which
            she says she binds the credit of the State. Now, sir, if it is the State of Indiana that
            is contracting this debt--this obligation--I ask in the name of common sense how it is
            the State can turn round and guarantee the payment of her own paper?
          But Mr. President, I design now turning for one moment to one of these bonds. Here is a
            copy of one of these bonds the State stands guarantee for. The faith of the State is
            irrevocably pledged. Now the position of the Senator from Jackson is that the State is
            not compelled to pay one of these bonds.
          Mr. BROWN. I have not said that the State is not bound to pay these bonds.
          Mr. STEELE. I am speaking in reference to his argument as far as the immediate
            liability of the State is concerned. The bond says: "for the payment of this bond the
            faith of the State is irrevocably pledged." How has it been changed?
          Mr. BROWN. It is pledged if the internal improvement works fail to pay it, not
            before.
          Mr. STEELE. It is not so denominated in the bond nor in the law.
          Mr. BROWN. Wait till I show you. Do you decline to be interrupted?
          Mr. STEELE. I don't think the Senator was interrupted the other day. The indebtedness,
            I assert again, is between the State and the bondholder. Let that bondholder be whoever
            he may be the State has irrevocably pledged her faith to pay the bond when it falls due.
            The gentleman from Jackson says the State should not pay it when it falls due. I ask
            Senators here if it does not look a good deal like repudiation?
          Now I propose to examine something the gentleman has said in his speech. I read from
            the printed pamphlet speech of the gentleman page third. He says [Mr. S. read commencing
            at the top of the second column page 75 of this book.] The gentleman's conclusion was
            rather strong. Again, I read now from page 5. [Mr. S. read commencing near the top of
            the second column page 385 of this book, "It seems to me clear" &c.] Now tell me on
            what other reasoning the Senator from Jackson comes to the conclusion that the State of
            Indiana is relieved, legally and morally from the payment of the indebtedness to John W.
            Garrett and those others, than that they were represented at the time this contract was
            made? And if he claims that they were so represented and that the State accepted the
            proposition they made, I ask gentlemen to show the Senate when it was, where it was and
            by whom they were represented.
          I ask the gentleman again, does he claim that Chas. Butler had authority to represent
            all these creditors? If he does we understand the matter. If he does not occupy that
            position I ask him how it is that the State of Indiana has been relieved, not only from
            legal liability, but from all moral obligation to pay this? We pass to the gentleman's
            argument again. [Mr. S. reads, "Our domestic bondholders" &c.--see page 386, of this
            book, fourth line, third paragraph.] Let me ask the Senator from Jackson, if this is
            true in the broad sense? Has the State paid the interest on John W. Garrett's bond that
            has fallen due, or on any portion of them? Has she kept her faith and paid the interest
            the gentleman says she has?
          Mr. BROWN. I didn't say any such thing. What I said was that she kept her faith by
            paying the interest on the five and two and a half per cent. Internal Improvement
            bonds.
          Mr. STEELE. "Oh! that mine enemy would write a book." He has written a book here  and when I read from it he says it is not true.
          Mr. BROWN. I repeat again what I said is this that the State kept her faith by paying
            the principle of the five and two and a half per cent. bonds and the interest upon them.
            That is all I said and that is all in it.
          Mr. STEELE. When I read from the gentleman's speech he puts in the five and two and a
            half per cent: it is not so in his speech. He says the State kept her faith and paid the
            interest on all that part of the debt she was liable for. Was she liable for John
            Garrett's bonds? If she was I ask the gentleman again if she paid he interest? Why, no
            sir. I desire now to refer the gentleman to page 8. [Mr. S. reads from the last
            paragraph first column page 388 of this book.] I ask the Senator to tell the Senate in
            the same glowing terms he did the other day, whether it is true that was done with the
            consent of all the creditors and that they were all represented there. He says all our
            creditors had full notice of this matter. Who was it had full notice?
          Mr. BROWN (in his seat.) John W. Garrett for one.
          Mr. STEELE. If the gentleman were called upon for proof I ask him how he would show the
            bondholders were represented, or that they all acquiesced in that for the last
            twenty-five years? John W. Garrett is saying to-day to the State of Indiana that "I
            never was represented there; I hold the bonds of the State of Indiana, and I look to her
            for payment;" and yet the gentleman from Jackson gets up and says "that is not true
            Garrett, you were represented there, you have I acquiesced in this matter for
            twenty-five years." But this is only part of the inconsistencies of the gentleman's
            speech.
          Again, the gentleman says. "But who can say," &c., [see page 389 of this book,
            twenty-three lines from bottom of first column.] I say for one that when the
            bondholders, it matters not whether it is the General Goverment, whether it is John W.
            Garrett or whether it is the school fund commissioners, let it be whoever it be, that
            comes to the Treasurer of the State of Indiana with a bond that is due upon the face of
            which her faith is pledged that she will pay it,I say as one of her citizens, and as a
            representative of my district here, I say it is the duty of the State to pay every
            dollar principle and interest of that bond; and the gentleman from Monroe says the same
            thing.
          The gentleman from Jackson undertakes by this to show that the Governor was intending
            in this matter to favor the General Government when not willing to pay the bonds held by
            others. I am not here for the purpose of defending Governor Baker, for I think he is
            able to defend himself, but will say that I understand the matter in a little different
            light. I undsrstand there was due from the General Government to the State upon war
            claims four or five hundred thousand dollars and it had a claim against the State of
            Indiana on account of these bonds and the Treasurer was not allowed by the General
            Government to pay one dollar of these war claims to us until that offset was allowed. I
            say I speak this from the authority of the Adjutant General of the State, that the
            General Government itself, through its officers, informed the State of Indiana that
            unless these claims were allowed, principal and interest it would not pay one dollar--it
            would withhold payment from the State of Indiana until such time as she paid her debt to
            it. What is the opinion of the gentleman from Jackson? That the Governor did wrong and
            should not have made the settlement at all, but should turn that over to the Legislature
            and do without the interest that would accumulate upon four or five hundred thousand
            dollars--all this should be lost to the State of Indiana so as to enable the member from
            Jackson to have something to do in the adjustment of that claim. Whether there was law
            for it or not; whether it was so set out in the statute that Governor Baker might or
            should allow that claim, I say that he done right and acted properly, and this people, I
            say, will justify him in the act. What has he done? He has paid a debt the State of
            Indiana has promised and a debt the State of Indiana was bound to pay and at the same
            time a debt due from the State of Indiana to the General Government--he paid these bonds
            never represented in the adjustment made in 1846-7. I take it Mr. President, it is not
            material who made the payment, if it was due from the State to the United States, and by
            paying that that was due we could get some three hundred thousand dollars.
          But here the gentleman begins to doubt a little in his argument the other day. Although
            he states that all the bondholders were represented in the adjustment of 1846-7, and
            that the State was relieved from all legal and moral obligation to pay the debt, what
            does he say: "I readily concede" &c., [see near the bottom of page 390 of this
            book.] Let me ask the Senator if that is the only property this bond is a lien upon? Is
            it not a lien upon the Central Canal? That I believe, has been sold recently for two
            hundred thousand dollars. Is it not a lien upon one of the Railroads here in the
            neighborhood? Is it not a lien upon the White Water Valley Canal? If there is one of
            these bonds not represented--one that did not assent to this legislation of 1846-7, I
            ask if its lien does not extend to all of the public works then owned by the State and
            pledged for the payment of this debt? I submit whether it does not extend to all of
            them.
          What does the gentleman say? Why, says he, it is time enough to look after this matter
            when these public works are sold. If it applies to the bondholders to look for their pay
               to the Wabash and Erie Canal, does it not apply
            to these men who purchased the Central Canal and that Railroad and the White Water
            Valley Canal? I submit that it does. And according to decision of the Supreme Court they
            would be the first property except the White Water Valley Canal. And why? Because they
            were the last that were sold by the State--they were sold since the Wabash and Erie
            Canal, and the rule is, you are to take that property which was sold last--which was
            conveyed last. If that is true--if that is the law that those works would be first
            liable--what position would the gentleman from Jackson place the State in? He would say
            Go sell the Central Canal or the Railroad, and when that is sold on execution it is time
            enough for the State of Indiana to talk about paying it. I submit the matter whether
            that is not all the argument in the case.
          In conclusion, now, he says: [Mr. S. read from the last paragraph on page 392 of this
            book.] The gentleman says I am not in favor of the State refusing to pay every honest
            obligation she owes. And if she does the argument is that she is guilty of repudiation.
            How do you escape from it? Here are bonds presented at the counter of the Treasurer of
            State which the faith of the State is pledged to redeem, and payment is asked. What does
            the gentleman from Jackson advise the Treasurer to do? "Say to these men we are not
            legally bound; there is nothing in conscience to require us to pay them." I say let it
            not be written upon the banner of the State of Indiana that she has repudiated her
            debt.
          What would any Senator say to me if he held my note and were to come to me and ask
            payment of it and I should say "I made an arrangement with my friend Mr. Hughes, in
            Monroe county to pay my debt; I will not pay it. I am not morally or legally bound to
            pay it." What would the gentleman say that presented the note? Would he not say it smelt
            strong and rank of repudiation? I submit the matter, if the argument is good in the one
            place it is good in the other.
          With the gentleman from Jackson, I say to the people of the State of Indiana, that I am
            not in favor of the State repudiating one dollar of her debt, principal or interest. She
            shall pay every bond she is legally and equitably bound to pay, and right there she
            shall stop. No act of mine, if I know what I am doing, shall ever go to bind the State
            for the payment of one dollar, or one cent, not legally and equitably due from her. I do
            not want repudiation or even the suspicion of repudiation to be inscribed upon her
            banner. No, let us unfurl it to the world and say, that Indiana is not only able to pay
            her debts but is willing, whenever they fall due. These Garrett debts are due now and
            other debts are due: Let us make provision for their payment.
          Let us guard this bill if it is not sufficiently strong. Let us have the legal ability
            of the Senator from Jackson county, and the legal talent of all the men that are here,
            and let us even go outside, if we have not the ability inside, and get this bill well
            guarded so that the State shall not be in any danger from it. Let us lay aside politics
            and consider this matter as we ought. Let us lay aside every weight in this matter and
            do that which is right between man and man; and say to the bondholders and the world
            that we have inscribed justice and equity upon our banner--we have kept our faith. This
            is my position gentlemen; it will be my act; I will take no other position if I know
            it.
          Mr. HADLEY obtained the floor, but, at his request, yielded to--
          Mr. BROWN, who said: Mr. President: I am glad the Senator over the way has had a chance
            to deliver that speech he felt so uneasy about. The speech he has just delivered is
            characterized by his general conduct in discussion in never giving a candid and fair
            statement of the opinions and sentiments of others. The Senator stated to the Senate
            that I said the State has kept her faith and paid the interest upon the Internal
            Improvement bonds. Of course I said no such thing. I was talking about the settlement of
            1846 which provided for the issue of two and a half and five per cent. stocks. Here is
            what I said: [Mr. B. read from the top of page 386 in this book.] Why should I not say
            they "were likewise well pleased?" Simply because they were represented in the
            transaction. They made no complaint in 1846, and when the Legislature convened in 1847
            they were still silent, and they remained silent until Governor Baker's administration
            has taken up these two and a half per cents, and now because these two and a half per
            cents. were taken up some of these gentlemen desire the Wabash and Erie Canal to be put
            back upon the State, and are now saying these gentlemen never were satisfied.
          Now one word on this guarantee question and I am done, for I shall not follow the
            gentleman at any great length. I will read from this 8th section of the act of 1836.
            [Mr. B. reads.] The Senator read the law correct. The next section the Senator did not
            read. One section authorizes the loan and the other section provides for the payment of
            the loan and fixes the liability upon those who are to pay the loan. Here is what the
            Senator did not read: [Mr. B. read section 9.] Here the State authorises the Board of
            Internal Improvement to contract a loan for the State and the act limits the power and
            authority of the Board so that it shall pledge the Internal Improvement works for the
            payment of it. Then the State says she guarantees these things she  pledges are sufficient for the purpoee of paying that
            debt.
          The Senator read what purports to be a copy of a bond: the Senator can't tell whether
            it is a true copy or not. Without attempting to put any constrution upon the language of
            the bond,--I can't say exactly what the language is. but this I can say to the Senate
            with little fear of successful contradiction, if any fear; that there was no power to
            bind the State beyond the point--one iota beyond the measure of the authority given in
            this act. There is where gentlemen must stand when they undertake to argue this
            guarantee question. If the Board of Internal Improvements made a bond fixing a different
            liability upon the part of the State from the liability the State authorized to be fixed
            upon her, that part of the bond it illegal and void and the State is not called upon to
            respond to it.
          The next proposition I desire to present is this; that when these gentlemen invested
            their money and took the bond, they took it with notice of the law. Every body is
            presumed to know what the law is. Gentlemen who took these Internal Improvement bonds
            took obligations for the payment of which they were first to look to the Internal
            Improvement system and would have to exhaust the Internal Improvement system before they
            could call upon the State by taxation to pay it. This very record case he brings to the
            bar of the Senate shows that I am right. If the State is primarily and not secondarily
            liable why does John W. Garrett propose to exhaust the Wa- and Erie Canal before putting
            the State to pay it.
          The gentleman over the way [Mr. Steele] puts the burden on the State all the way
            through, while my earnest desire is to place the responsibility upon the other side to
            show a clear liability against the State in their favor. I say upon this question I am
            willing to put my position alongside the position of Senators over the way and we will
            go hand in hand to the people of this State and they who are superior to us, they who
            are higher than we, they who are the power in this State, they sir, who are responsible
            for the payment of these bonds if they are paid; to that tribunal to whose will I shall
            always bow--to them I am willing to go and be tried at the bar of public opinion whether
            I am a repudiator or not, and whether or not the opinious I entertain will be sustained
            or not.
          Mr. HADLEY demanded--see page 152.
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Wile and Shoenemann Contested Election Case--Debate in
          Continuation.
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            WEDNESDAY, January 11, 1871.
          
          
            [Morning Session.]
          
          Mr. CAUTHORN, from the Committee on Elections submitted the
            following:
          Mr. Speaker: The Committee to whom was referred the Contested Election case wherein
            Simon Wile is the contestor and William Shoenemann the contestee, involving the right to
            a seat on this floor as Representative for the county of Laporte, have had the same
            under consideration and being fully and sufficiently advised in the premises submit the
            following report:
          The Committee find that at the general election held on the 11th day of October, 1870,
            the contestor and contestee were the opposing candidates in the county of Laporte for
            Representatives to the General Assembly from said county; that they were the only
            candidates for said office and both received legal votes therefor; that on the 11th day
            of October, 1870, the day said General Election was held, the contestee was holding the
            office of Postmaster at Michigan City, Indiana, an office created and held under the
            authority of the United States, that said holding of said office by the contestee was
            generally known to the legal voters of said county; that the salary or compensation
            realized by the contestee from said office was fourteen hundred dollars per annum; that
            the contestee continued to hold said office until the 4th day of January, 1871, when he
            left home to attend the present session of the General Assembly to take his seat as a
            member thereof; that said office is now managed by his employees, and that he has
            received no notification of the appointment or confirmation of a successor.
          Upon the above statement of facts, which, are admitted by the parties, the question is
            presented as to which of the parties, if either, is entitled to the seat on this floor
            as the Representative from the county of Laporte. It is purely a question of law, and
            its solution depends upon the proper consideration of section 9 Article 2, of the
            Constitution of the State of Indiana, which reads as follows:
          SEC. 9. No person holding a lucrative office or appointment under the United States, or
            under this State, shall be eligible to a seat in the General Assembly; nor shall any
            person hold more than one lucrative office at the same time, except as in this
            Constitution expressly permitted: PROVIDED, that officers in the
            militia, to which there is attached no annual salary, and the office of Deputy Post
            Master, where the compensation does not exceed ninety dollars per annum, shall not be
            deemed lucrative: AND, PROVIDED, ALSO, that
            counties containing less than one thousand polls, may confer the office of Clerk
            Recorder, and Auditor, or any two of said offices upon the same person.
          The Committee are of opinion that by virtue of said provision of the Constitution the
            contestee was not eligible to a seat in this House as a Representative. It is clear from
            the text of the Constitution that the framers of that instrument intended to make the
            holding of certain offices of itself sufficient to render the holder thereof not
            eligible to a seat in the General Assembly. This is a selfevident proposition and needs
            no elucidation. There may be offices the holding of which may not bring the incumbent
            within the constitutional restriction and render him inelligible. But the case in point
            is not one of them. The office held by the contestee was that of Deputy Postmaster, an
            office known and recognized by the framers of the Constitution and to which their
            attention in drafting this section was particularly directed, as in the proviso it is
            directly alluded to, and Deputy  Postmasters whose
            compensation do not exceed ninety dollars per annum are exempted from its operation. But
            the office admitted to have been held in this case does not come within the exception,
            as the annual compensation exceeds ninety dollars per annum. There can be no escape
            therefore, from the positive conclusion that the contestee was not eligible to a seat in
            this House by virtue of that Constitutional restriction.
          We presume (there being no evidence whatever on the point) that the contestee received
            a majority of the votes cast at said election for the office of Representative as he
            holds the certificate. Such being the case we would not exclude him from the seat he
            holds on a mere technicality or informality. But in this case he is disqualified by the
            Constitution, the paramount law of the State, and to admit him would, in the opinion of
            the committee be a palpable violation of that instrument which we have sworn to
            support.
          Having thus disposed of one branch of the inquiry presented, it only remains for the
            committee, in the discharge of its duty, to dispose of the remaining one. And as to this
            we are of opinion that the contestor was duly elected Representative from the county of
            Laporte, at the election held on the 11th day of October last. On that day it was
            competent for the voters of that county to elect a Representative, and the elegible
            person receiving the highest number of votes would, of course, be elected. And it was
            not competent for any number of the voters of that county to defeat that right, either
            by absenting themselves from the polls, casting blank ballots or voting for a person not
            eligible.
          In the case before us the contestor was the only person eligible for said office voted
            for and consequently elected. It may be indelicate for any person to assume the duties
            of a Representative office with a majority of the voters of his county arrayed against
            him, but we are not called upon to decide this.
          The view of the case and conclusion reached by the committee may appear to militate
            against the American doctrine of the right of the majority to rule, and perhaps, to some
            extent it is the case. But in contemplation of the law, and this is purely a legal
            question with which we deal, it is in harmony with that principle. The law presumes that
            every one knows the law, and ignorance thereof cannot be pleaded. In many cases it is a
            violent presumption and may work hardships. It may be so in this case, yet it is
            nevertheless the law. And therefore in the eye of the law the voters of Laporte county
            who cast their ballots for the contestee accomplished indirectly what the voters who
            cast their ballots for the contestor directly accomplished. They knew in contemplation
            of law, that the contestee was not eligible, and by voting for him they indirectly
            accomplished the election of the contestor, as surely as if they had absented themselves
            from the polls or cast blank ballots.
          The committee therefore find that the contestee is not entitled to the seat he now
            holds in this House, as Representative from the county of Laporte, and that the
            contestor is entitled to said seat. The committee therefore recommend the adoption of
            the following resolution:
          
            
              
                RESOLVED, That Simon Wile and William Shoenemann, being the
                  only persons voted for at the general election, held on the eleventh day of
                  October, 1870, for the office of Representative, from the county of Laporte, in
                  the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, and William Shoenemann not being
                  eligible for that office at said election, and Simon Wile being the only person
                  voted for who was eligible, that William Shoenemann has no legal right to a seat
                  in the House of Representatives, as the Representative from the county of Laporte,
                  and that Simon Wile was duly elected a Representative from the county aforesaid,
                  in the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, and is hereby admitted to his
                  seat in the House of Representatives, for the said county of Laporte.
                
                  [Signed]
                  GEORGE McDOWELL, Chairman, HENRY S.
                    CAUTHORN, FRANK D. CALDWELL, JONATHAN D.
                    COX, HENRY S. BARNABY. 
              
            
          
          On his motion, and by unanimous consent, this report was referred to the
              Judiciary Committee.
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            WEDNESDAY, February 1, 1871.
          
          
            [Afternoon Session.]
          
          Mr. McDONALD, from a majority of Committee on the Judiciary,
            returned the above report and submitted the following:
          Mr. SPEAKER: The Committee on the Judiciary to whom was referred the
            matter of contest in the case of Wile against Shoenemann, from the county of Laporte,
            have had the same under consideration, and have not been able to agree. The undersigned
            are of the opinion that the resolution as reported to this House by the
              Committee on Elections should be adopted.
          [Signed] ISIAH B. McDONALD, HENRY S. CAUTHORN, WILLIS G. NEFF, R. P.
              DAVIDSON.
          Mr. WILSON, intimating that a majority report would be ready to-morrow, the matter was
            passed over informally.
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            FRIDAY, February 3, 1871.
          
          
            [IN CONTINUATION FROM PAGE 214 NEAR
                THE MIDDLE OF SECOND COLUMN.]
          
          Mr. WILSON, from a majority of the Committee on the Judiciary
            submitted the following:

          

          The Committee on Judiciary to whom was referred the report of the
              Committee on Elections, in the case of Wile vs. Shoenemann--wherein
            said Committee recommended the adoption of a resolution declaring the sitting member
            from the county of Laporte not entitled to his seat by reason of ineligibility, in this
            being at the time of his election, Deputy Postmaster at Michigan City,--herewith submit
            the following report, dissenting from the opinion expressed by said Committee. The case
            briefly stated is as follows:--
          On the 11th day of October, 1870, Shoenemann the contestee, was elected the
            Representative for Laporte county to the General Assembly, by a majority of 275 votes
            over the contestor, his only competitor. At the time of his election he held the
            appointment of Deputy Postmaster at Michigan City in said county, and continued to hold
            said oppointment until Nov. 17th, 1870, when he resigned his office as such postmaster,
            addressing his resignation to the Postmaster General, whom he then thought the proper
            person and officer to receive it. Afterwards ascertaining that such resignation should
            have been directed to the President, he accordingly in due form forwarded to the
            President his resignation as postmaster in these words:
          
            
              
                
                  
                    U. S. Grant, President of the United States:
                  
                
                SIR--At the last State election, I was elected Representative
                  to the State Legislature for the county of Laporte, by the Republican party. It
                  now becomes necessary for me to resign the office as Postmaster at Michigan City.
                  I would ask most respectfully to be relieved of duty of said office as soon as
                  possible, and herewith resign the office as Postmaster of said city. Thanking you
                  very kindly for the honor and trust of which I have been bestowed with, I am,
                  respectfully your obedient servant.
                
                  WM. SHOENEMANN, P. M. 
                Michigan City, Dec. 10,'70.
              
            
          
          On the 5th day of January, A. D., 1871, he presents his certificate of election, at the
            Bar of this House, and was duly sworn in as a member of this General Assembly. The
            report of the Committee on Elections declares the contestee
            ineligible by reason of holding an office at the time of his election to this House. We
            are unable to agree with the conclusion of the Committee, for the following reasons:
          
            It is against established precedent and the lex et consuetude of
              parliament.
            It is against the object, spirit, and meaning of our constituticu.
            It is not sustained by law.
          
          In support of the first proposition, reference will be had to the law, and custom as
            well as jurisdiction of parliament, for--
          The Legislative Assemblies of the United States, having all been constructed upon the
            model of the two Houses of the British Parliament; the forms of proceeding which prevail
            in the latter have been adopted by them as their common Parliamentary Law; and upon that
            have been engrafted the peculiar usages which distinguish the various systems of
            parliamentary practice in this country; precisely, as, upon the basis of the common law
            of England, the different legal systems of the several States have been established.
            [Cushing's Law and Practice of Legislative Assemblies, sec. 697.]
          The Constitution of the United States and of almost all the States, contain provisions
            relating to the incidental powers of the legislative assemblies, and they do not in any
            degree change, either by enlarging or diminishing, the powers of jurisdiction recognized
            by the ordinary parliamentary law.
          When therefore, the framers of our constitution engrafted therein the 10th sec. in
            article 4, providing that "Each House when assembled shall choose its own officers,
            judge the election, qualifications and returns of its own members, and sit upon its own
            adjournment;" as well as that other section, 14, which provides that, "Either House may
            punish its own members for disorderly behavior, and may with the concurrence of two
            thirds, expel a member;" and that other section, 16, "Each House shall have all powers
            necessary for a branch of the legislative department of a free and independent State;"
            they were simply following the precepts which had withstood the inovations of centuries
            "as a part of the unwritten law, and as such, only to be collected out of the rolls of
            parliament and other records, and by precedents and continued experience." [Coke
            Inst.]
          They found that these privileges, and this power and authority in the making,
            confining, enlarging, restraining, abrogating, repealing, revising and expounding of
            laws so transcendent and absolute, could nowhere better be preserved than in our
            Constitution--thus recognizing the doctrine of the wisest statesmen, and greatest
            lawyers, through a long succession, from Sir Edward Coke, and Mr. Seldon, to the Earl of
            Hardwicke, Lord Kenyon, Erskine, Mansfield, even to the present Lord Chancellor of
            England, "that matters moved in Parliament shall be managed, adjudged, and discussed by
            the course of Parliament, and in no sort by the law civil, or by the common law of the
            land, used in the other lower courts," [Coke Inst. Lex. Parl. 83.] For, as Sir Edward
            Coke says, "Every court of justice hath laws and customs for its direction, some by the
            common law, some by the civil and cannon law, so the high court of parliament, suis propriis legibus et conseutudinibus consistit, and it is only by
            the Lex et consuetude Parliamenti that all weighty matters concerning
            the Peers of the Realm, or Commons in Parliament assembled, ought to be discussed,
            adjudged and determined." [Coke Inst.]
          This will not be denied. In order therefore to get a complete and intelligible view of
            the law and practice of our Legislative Assemblies, it will be necessary to understand
            fully and distinctly the law and practice of the British Parliament, [Gushing 698,] for
            what is given to the Legislature in our Constitution is simply an inheritance from the
            Parliament  and statute law of England, which for
            nearly three centuries has been claimed, and is recognized as the acknowledged franchise
            of the Lords and Commons, that they are the judges of the election and qualification of
            their own members, to be determined only by the law of Parliament [May 40, 42] and it
            will be seen that our Constitution, in its grant of jurisdiction regarding elections, is
            identical with that exercised by the Commons, which have no control, and never claimed
            to have, over the eligibility of candidates, except in the administration of the laws
            which define their qualifications; [May 42.]
          We are compelled, therefore, in our examination of this case to consider it with
            reference to its identity and application to like cases determined in parliament, under
            laws though more certain and defined, yet not so limited, as the language of our
            Constitution, would seem in such cases in the use of a single word, to limit in its
            sense and meaning. "It is not the word of the law, says the ancient Plowden, but the
            internal sense of it, that makes the law; the letter of the law is the body, the sense
            and reason of the law is the soul."--" Every statute ought to be expounded not according
            to the letter but according to the meaning." [Dwarris 272.]
          We ask then for a determination of this case upon the recognized and accepted
            interpretation of the law established for centuries in the British Parliament, and as
            the House of Commons is in such cases, a court of jurisdiction [Dwarris 299,] so can it
            be said that this House has special and exclusive jurisdiction under our Constitution
            for the same purpose; and we submit that in the exercise of this high discretionary
            power, great deference is certainly due to a legislative exposition of a constitutional
            provision, and especially when it is made almost contemperaneously with such provisions,
            and might be supposed to result from the same views of policy, and modes of reasoning
            which prevailed among the framers of the instrument expounded; [2 Wend 266 274.]
          Recognizing this high power, and the precedents established thereupon, we claim that
            this case should be determined by these precedents, based upon the statute law from
            which our own system of laws is drawn, and the spirit of which so fitly dwells in the
            great charter of our liberties and declared rights, for when determined, your
            proceedings cannot be revised nor your judgment suspended by any other court or
            tribunal. [C. L. & P. 649.]
          We ask a comparison between the laws upon which a succession of precedents has been
            drawn, and the language of our Constitution upon which the resolution of the committee
            is moved.
          By the 7th act George 2 c I6, s 4, no judge of the court of session, or judiciary, or
            baron of the court of exchequer in Scotland, shall be capable of being elected, or of
            sitting or voting.
          By the 22d act George 3 c 45, no person who shall hold, or enjoy any contract entered
            into for the public service shall be capable of being elected, or of sitting, or voting
            as a member of the House of Commons.
          Nor any person holding any office or place of profit under the lord lieutenant, or lord
            justice, created since the 33d George 3d, shall be capable of being elected, or
            chosen.
          Persons having or holding new offices under the Crown created since 1705, are incapable
            of being elected or of siting, and voting as members. [6 Anne c 7, 525. See 1 Luder 455,
            Whitley Harvey's case 1839, DeLolme English Constitution 622.]
          Nor any person having a pension from the Crown, shall be capable of being elected, or
            of sitting or voting as a member of the House of Commons.
          Commissioners of the revenue in Ireland, and their deputies or clerks, (and many other
            classified officers) are all disqualified not only from being elected, but also from
            setting, and voting as members of Parliament, [22 George 3 c 45.]
          Any person who shall directly, or indirectly * * * execute hold or enjoy * * any
            contract, agreement, or commission of his majesty's treasury, navy, &c., shall be
            incapable of being elected, or of sitting, or voting as a member of the House of
            Commons; and any person being a member who shall enter into such contract, or having
            entered into it shall continue to hold it, his seat shall be void. [Same.]
          Now, what is the language of our Constitution. Section nine of article 2, reads as
            follows:
          No person holding a lucrative office or appointment under the United States, or under
            this State, shall be eligible to a seat in the General Assembly.
          It must indeed be a mind of extraordinary power of analysis that can detect a
            distinction between this section, and that law which has been so often interpreted in
            parliament, to which reference has just been made. If indeed there is a distinction it
            is without a difference, except in this, that the law of England goes farther, so far,
            as to disqualify in certain cases, persons not only from sitting, but from being
            elected, and being elected, voting.
          The law of Parliament or statute law of England, as well as our own laws of Congress,
            recognize two grades of members: 1st, those qualified to be elected, and to sit and
            vote; and, 2d, those qualified to be elected and sit without voting. The same
            qualifications are not required, nor can they be possessed in one sense, for both
            purposes. This distinction or grade is recognized in our own laws. By act of March 1817,
            delegates to Congress are entitled to a seat with the right of debating but not of
            voting. They may make motions, except a motion to reconsider, which being dependent upon
            a right to vote, cannot be exercised by a delegate. [Wilson's Digest Parl. Law p.
            188.]
          No section in our Constitution declares a disqualification "where these qualifications
            are of the same nature as those required of an elector," except Section 17, Art. 7.
            Under this section he is not eligible to an election to any  other than a judicial office, during the term for which he
            was elected thereto. Here the the language is explicit: it declares what constitutes
            ineligibility which shall disqualify him for an election. Section 9, declares simply,
            that one holding office shall not be eligible to a seat. In other words, with the
            exception in said section, he could not while he held one office possess another, and
            hold both.
          It is a principle of law, that where a question arises as to the construction or
            expounding of a will it is not what the testator meant, as distinguished from what his
            words express, but simply what is the literal meaning of the words, [Dwarris 561.]
            Construing then, with parity of reasoning, the words "eligible to a seat" in their
            grammatical and natural sense, the mind must indeed be dark that refuses to receive
            their accepted signification as against the words "eligible to an election." In what a
            labyrinth of nonsense and contradiction would men involve themselves, when, forsaking
            the rules of evidence, they would draw conclusions from words in contradiction to
            language, and in defiance of common sense. If ineligibility to a seat means
            ineligibility to an election, or if the former can relate back to the
            time when ineligibility existed--at some time past--then we must believe that in the
            construction of our laws when one thing is said another is meant, and that a man means
            one thing because he says another.
          Under the head "disqualifying officers or employments," in section 78, of "Cushing's
            Law and Practice of Legislative Assemblies," the principle there laid down is in these
            words:
          Disqualifications of this kind result from the holding of certain offices, or from the
            exercising of certain employments, commissions and professions, the functions of which
            are deemed incompatible with the proper discharge of the duties of a member, but of
            which one may divest himself at pleasure, and which are therefore relative rather than
            absolute. In general as these disqualifications are not derived from the personal
            character of the individual, or inflicted by way of punishment, they do not render him
            ineligible, that is, incapable to be elected, but prevent him from assuming the
            functions of a member until they are removed. [See also, Panyters Practice at Elections,
            Douglas 1, 143, Douglas 3, 450,]
          But this depends upon the language used in reference to each particular
            disqualification and the time to which it relates. Thus where it is said that no person
            holding a particular office, &c., "shall have a seat,"--"shall be a member"--"shall
            at the same time have aseat"--"shall hold a seat"--"shall be capable of having a
            seat"--"shall be capable of being a member"--"shall be capable of holding an
            office"--"shall act as a member," the disqualification relates to the time of assuming
            the functions of a member. But where the following terms are used "shall be incapable of
            being elected," the disqualification relates to the time of the election. Section 16,
            Article7, clearly comes within the purview of the last clause of this section, providing
            that "no person elected to a judicial office shall be eligible to another," &c.
          It needs no reasoning to show upon what grounds this line of precedents touching the
            qualification of members upon this very same question, has been established by the law
            of parliament and indeed other tribunals in cases of contested elections from which no
            deliberative body has as yet deemed a departure wise or justifiable. The same rule has
            ever obtained in courts, that in construing acts of Parliament, and instruments of
            writing, the only means is to take the words in their ordinary grammatical sense,
            according to the natural and most obvious import of the language, without resorting to
            subtle and forced constructions for the purpose of either limiting or extending their
            operation.
          Further the Committee on Elections claim that by reason of holding
            an office at the time of his election, the contestee is disqualified though he may have
            relinquished all claims to said office since his election and before taking his
            seat.
          We think otherwise, and we respectfully submit, that, if at the time of the election to
            the General Assembly, one holds an office, the holding of which is not by the letter of
            the Constitution, a disqualification for any other office at the time, if he divests
            himself of that office before taking his seat, he is eligible. To sustain this
            proposition we cite 2 Hatsell's Precedents, 52; Clerk on Election Committees 1852, 156;
            Commons Journals 18, Jan. 1717; 20 May, 1715; 1 Luder 72, 445; 38 38 Comm. Jour. 15,
            245,414, 689; Clifford's Reports 1796, 141, 221, 261, 342; 1 Peck, 526.
          The determinations in Parliament on this question, have been accepted and followed for
            many years by all Legislative Assemblies, where there was not by special construction, a
            constitutional provision to the contrary. In support, therefore, of our proposition, we
            cite a few of the determinations in the House of Commons:
          On the 5th of February, 1708, Sir Richard Allen is declared duly elected for Dunwich,
            on the hearing his petition. On the 7th February, he surrenders an office to the customs
            for life, to which he had been appointed in May, 1678. On the 8th February this
            surrender is enrolled, and on the 9th of February he desires the sense of the House
            before he takes his seat, and upon reading the letters patent and surrender, he is
            admitted to take his seat.
          On the 10th day of April 1728, it is resolved by the Committee of
              Elections, that Mr. Ongley, having an office in the customs at the time of
            his election, is capable of claiming to sit. 2 Hats., Prec. 38. The idea says Hatsel, of
            excluding from the House of Commons, one who holds an office in the Government of the
            country, and who from that situation is the best qualified to give the necessary
            information relative to the Department which he belongs to, is too absurd to be
            seriously maintained for a moment.--Same, 47.

          

          Another case cited in Hatsel is that of Lord Althrope. He was chosen a member of the
            House of Commons, April 4th, 1782, for Northampton. On Wednesday the 3rd of April at a
            meeting held to consider of a proper person to represent the county of Surrey, Lord
            Althrope was nominated and unanimously approved of, and at the election on Wednesday the
            10th of April, he was elected Knight of the shire for that county. It was held that Lord
            Althrope being elected, and returned for Northampton, was not eligible for Surrey,
            without first vacating his seat, and on the 8th of April he accordingly vacated his seat
            for Northampton.--Same.
          With these determinations, selected from many others, we turn to those of more recent
            decision in Congress. And as they bear so directly upon the case at bar, we ask that
            indulgence commensurate with the importance of this case. In the case of Hammond vs.
            Herrick, determined in the 15th Congress 1st session 1817, the principle is laid down
            that though the sitting member may have held office at the time of his election to the
            House, by resigning that office before the session, he is eligible to a seat in the
            body.
          The case at bar is directly in point. Shoenemann, the contestee, was at the time of his
            election, October 11th, Deputy Postmaster at Michigan City. On the 17th day of November,
            seven weeks before he was sworn in as a member of this House, he resigned his office as
            Deputy Postmaster, and when he accepted by his oath of office the duties and
            responsibilities of a member on this floor, that moment he divested himself of any
            office or appointment under any other person or power, or by force of any election. Not
            only because the possesion of one office vacates the other, but for the reason that
            having in the only manner prescribed by law, vacated one office by resignation, he was
            free to exercise the trust the great majority of Laporte county imposed upon him.
          The committee in the case of Hammond vs. Herrick, were sustained in this opinion, and
            as the arguments in that case are presented so ably, concisely, and intelligibly, we
            refer to those opinions, and wish to make them a part of this report, for we have no
            other conclusion than as given there. Nor can we present to this House any better law,
            which freed from party bias goes to the fullest extent in declaring the object, spirit,
            and meaning of our Federal and State Constitution. In this case
          The sitting member was elected to Congress in October 1816, being then in commission as
            District Attorney of the United States. On the 29th of November 1817, he resigned his
            office as District Attorney and on the first day of December following took his seat in
            Congress. It was decided that he was not rendered incapable of being a member of the
            House by reason of his having held the said office after the 4th of March, and until the
            29th of November 1817.
          The inquiry here presents itself as in the case now before the House, as to the time
            when the rights of membership commence. The 6th section of the first Article in the
            Federal Constitution provides, that--
          No person holding an office under the United States shall be a member of either House
            during his continuance in office.
          The incompatibility is not limited to exercising an office and at the same time being a
            member of either House of Congress, but is equally extended to the case of holding, that
            is, having, keeping, possessing or retaining an office under such circumstances. The
            only difference between this section in the Federal Constitution, and section 9 of our
            Constitution, is the phraseology, for to become a member admits of eligibility to a
            seat.
          As to the time when this membership commences or when one may be considered eligible to
            a seat; it has often been decided by the Committee of Elections of
            the House of Commons that a person holding an office incompatible with membership, is
            nevertheless capable of prosecuting his claim to a seat. Persons elected to the House of
            Commons become at one time members for certain purposes, and at another time for other
            purposes, and this committee in Congress say, that--
          After examination of all Parliamentary Registers, Histories and Journals within our
            reach, we have found no case where a person elected to the House of Commons was brought
            in on a call of the House, before he had voluntarily appeared, qualified and taken his
            seat. The act of becoming in reality a member of the House depends wholly upon the will
            of the person elected, and returned. Election does not of itself constitute membership.
            * * * Neither does a return necessarily confer membership. These acts are nothing more
            than the designation of the individual who when called upon in the manner prescribed by
            law, shall be authorized to claim title to a seat.
          What then is necessary to constitute a person a member of Congress? There are yet two
            other acts to be performed, one by the Goverment, another by the inchoate member, or the
            Representative elect, before his right to his seat is consummated, and before he is,
            agreeably to the language, and spirit of the Constitution, a member. He must appear in
            this place and take the oath as prescribed to support the Constitution. This act of his,
            in consenting to take the oath is the only legal evidence known to our constitution and
            laws, of his having accepted the office, and his having taken the oath is the only legal
            evidence that he is in law and in fact a member. No rights or privileges of a member
            attach to a Representative elect, before he takes the oath of office.
          In nearly every Congress since the commencement of the goverment, postmasters have been
            returned as members, and such members have almost uniformly held their offices after the
            4th of March succeeding their election.

          

          In the case of Elias Earle, of South Carolina, who was Postmaster at Centerville, in
            that State. On the 10th of February 1817, the Governor executed a certificate of his
            election and he continued to execute the duties of his office until the 12th of June
            1817, in the meantime, but after his election, having forwarded his resignation as such
            Postmaster to the Postmaster General. It was held in this case that--
          Continuing to execute the duties of an office under The United States after one is
            elected to Congress, but before he takes his seat, is not a disqualification, such
            office being resigned prior to the taking of his seat.
          And in the case of George Mumford of North Carolina, a Collector of Revenue, it was
            held that--
          The formal resignation of an officer held by a member elect, is not necessary, if the
            duties of it have so far ceased as to have operated a virtual abolition of the
            office.
          What was said in the determination of this case may be said in the case at bar. They
            are parallel. The question of sovereignty does not exist, nor cannot be maintained in
            this case. But whether it did or not, underlying the whole case is a principle upon
            which the decision of this body must be made and from which they cannot shrink by
            technical evasive rules, or questions of doubt.
          Shoenemann, the contestee, resigned as Deputy Postmaster in November, then again in
            December. The contestor, with his counsel,and the contestee, came before the
              Judiciary Committee after the report of the Committee on
              Elections had been referred to us. The chairman of the committee gave them a
            hearing. We all heard the plea in behalf of the contestor. We heard Shoenemann say that
            he had resigned, that he had sent his unconditional resignation to Washington in
            November, and then in December. Not having a copy of that resignation he produced the
            following letter from Hon. Jasper Packard, representing his District in Congress:
          
            
              
                H. R., WASHINGTON, Dec. 19, 1870.
                Hon. WM. SHOENEMANN; My Dear Sir--Your
                  resignation has been received at the Department and duly accepted, of which I had
                  notice on Saturday. I shall to-morrow make a recommendation to fill the
                  vacancy.
                Hoping you will have a pleasant time this winterat Indianapolis, I am
                
                  Yours Very Truly,
                  JASPER PACKARD. 
              
            
          
          But we fail to find anything about his resignation in the report of the
              Committee on Elections, though honorable members of that committee
            acknowledge on this floor that such evidence was adduced.
          Then a question arises as to whether Shoenemann's resignation was accepted. The
            committee deemed this unnecessary, but desiring to satisfy all minds, a telegram was
            sent asking when Shoenemann's resignation was accepted. The following answer came:
          
            
              
                WASHINGTON, Jan. 18, 1871.
                
                  
                    Hon. Wm. Shoenemann, House of Representatives:
                  
                
                Willett's name was sent to the Senate Dec. 20th, vice Shoenemann, resigned,
                  showing acceptance of resignation that date.
                
                  JASPER PACKARD, 
              
            
          
          Still not satisfied, a copy of the resignation must be had, and so agreed by all the
            parties, the contestor agreeing to furnish it, saying that "he knew better than the
            contestee," the man who wrote, it "that it was conditional." We waited some time and
            then he had not sent, nor did he intend to send for it. The contestee was then privately
            told to send for a copy of his resignation. In answer to his telegram he received the
            following answer:
          
            
              
                WASHINGTON, Jan. 26, 1871.
                
                  
                    Hon. Wm. Shoenemann, House of Representatives:
                  
                
                Your resignation is unconditional. Will sendcertified copy by mail.
                
                  JASPER PACKARD. 
              
            
          
          These are the facts. In support of the 3rd reason we assign for dissenting from the
            conclusion of the Committee on Elections,--sustained by a minority of
            the Judiciary Committee, namely, that such conclusions are not
            sustained by law, we make reference to the following authorities and decisions:
          In the case of Gilbert vs. Ince, 11 Barbour 94, 95:
          A seal is not necessary to the act of resignation the office becomes ipso facto vacant
            by such resignation. The act of resignation is the act of the Deputy, and when he does
            the act the office becomes vacant.
          When, therefore, the resignation was received by the Sheriff in this case, the
            defendent then ceased to hold the office of Deputy Sheriff, and his sureties ceased to
            be responsible for any act of his done thereafter.
          In the case of Van Onsdall vs. Hazard, 3 Hill, 247, 248, it was held:
          On the mode of resignation it is here said, that it may be either in writing, or by
            parol, express or even by implication, so that there be an intent to resign on one side,
            and an acceptance on the other.
          When no particular mode of resignation is prescribed by law, and where the appointment
            is not by deed, it may be by parol; as by the incumbent declaring to the appointing
            power that he resigns his office, or will continue to serve no longer, and requesting an
            acceptance of his resignation. Nor need the acceptance be in writing. It is enough that
            the office be treated as vacant, for instance by appointing a successor.
          The leading case of Rex vs. Rippon (1 Lord Raymond 563, Salkend 433 S. C.,) resolves
            both of these points.
          A vacancy may sometimes arise from a mere implied resignation, as by accepting an
            office incompatible with that which is claimed to be vacant. (The People ex. rel.
            Whiting vs. Carrique. 2 Hills Rep 97, and cases there cited.)
          This is an absolute determination of the original office and leaves no shadow of title
            to the posses- sor--so that neither quo warranto
            nor a motion is necessary before ony other may be elected. 3 Burr 1616, T. R. 87.
          In this case last cited Bullen (Judge) cited Lord Mansfield who had held that if the
            two offices were incompatible, the acceptance of the latter would imply a surrender of
            the former.
          In Angel & Ames on Corporations, 255 1st ed., it is there laid down that the
            appointment to one office, is a temporary disqualification which renders the officer
            ineligible to the other incompatible office, though it is admitted, on the same page
            that the appointee may accept the new one on abandoning the other.
          There is not a doubt that he had a right to elect whether he would hold his seat there,
            or accept his new appointment. 3 Hills, 97.
          In the case of U. S. vs. John C. Wright. 1 McLean, 509 it was held:
          A civil officer has a right at any time to resign his office, and after his resignation
            has been received at the proper department, his surety is not bound for his faithful
            performance.
          The President has no power to refuse a resignation, or require an officer to continue
            in office.
          Judge McLean in discussing this case said:
          There can be no doubt that a civil officer has a right to resign his office at
            pleasure, and it is not in the power of an Executive to compel him to remain in office.
            It is only necessary that the resignation should be received, to take effect, and this
            does not depend upon the acceptance or rejection of the resignation by the
            President.
          In conclusion of this report we can but repeat from the argument upon which the case of
            George Mumford, above referred to was determined in Congress, in his favor, permitting
            him to hold his seat:
          Is it not indecorous, after a man has taken an oath to support the Constitution, and
            thereby qualified himself and taken his seat as a member, to insist that he does hold an
            office which is as much as to say that he has violated the Constitution and his oath,
            without having some evidence, that he has discharged, or attempted to discharge other
            duties than those of a member?
          In this case Shoenemann had abandoned the office long before he took his oath of
            membership at the bar of this House. He is not responsible nor is he regarded as
            Postmaster, at home or at Washington--nor has he been since Dec. 20, 1870.
          Who has proven that he did not send forward his resignation? We have shown that he did.
            Suppose indeed his resignation did not get to Washington safely. Will it be claimed for
            a moment that any power there can take him from the high and important duties assigned
            to him on this floor by his constituents? Must he still be regarded as the Postmaster,
            notwithstanding he has told your committee that he holds no office at the time he
            qualifies as a member? He has done all required of him, and it might be said he has even
            gone beyond the requirements of the law. But having so promptly presented his
            resignation, will it be said that the President is not bound to know and provide for the
            vacancy in an office which has before his face, been made vacant, and which it is his
            duty to fill?
          For the minority of the Judiciary Committee to contend that there
            was no evidence of the receipt of this resignation, places them, and this House in a
            very humble attidude indeed, for by so doing they put it completely in the power of the
            heads of demartments, by refusing to accept; or by omitting to acknowledge the receipt
            of a resignation, to prevent any one who has been chosen by the people from taking his
            seat on this floor. This does not conform to the spirit of our republican institutions
            nor form of Government. Adopt this theory and there will no longer be privileges of
            Parliament except such as may be dictated and prescribed by a few. In other words,
            instead of that old saying vox populi, vox dei, we
            must accept a new version, vox potentati vox populi.
          The committee, therefore, are of the opinion that Shoenemann, the sitting member,
            holding no office at the time of taking the oath of office as a member of this assembly,
            is eligible to his seat and entitled to hold the same. O. M. WILSON, JOS.
            HENDERSON, G. W.FRIEDLEY, R. T. STJOHN, E. CALKINS, Fulton. 
          Mr. CAUTHORN. Mr. Speaker: As a member of the Committee on
            Elections, this case was heard and considered by me, and when that committee
            submitted its report to the House, the legal question involved was on my motion,
            referred to the Judiciary Committee for investigation and report. As
            a member of that committee also, I have had this case under consideration, and have by
            patient research and inquiry endeavored to discharge my duty, not only to the parties
            immediately interested, but to the country and the House. I therefore claim attention
            for a very few moments whilst I present my view of the case.
          This case involves directly one clause of the Constitution of the State of Indiana.
            Such being the fact it commends itself to the careful consideration of us all. For you,
            Mr. Speaker, and every member of this House, has taken a solemn oath to support and
            defend that instrument. And if we have any regard for that oath, we must carefully and
            honestly examine the facts and the reasons upon which we arrive at a conclusion and
            predicate our action.
          For my part I propose to act dispassionately and impartially, without regard to
            political considerations or personal consequences. I will do what I think right in the
            premises, come what may as a sequence. Often men are influenced in their actions by
            extraneous and disturbing influences. But on this occasion, sir, I disclaim such. The
            path I will tread is not strewed with flowers and leads to no asylum where I will find a
            welcome, except such  as arises from the
            consciousness of having discharged my duty.
          I will, moreover, say at the outset that if instating this case I shall make any
            statement that is not unquestionably warranted by the evidence, I will thank any
            gentleman on this floor to rise in his place and correct me at the time I make it.
          What are the facts in the case? It appears from the admissions of the parties made
            before the Committee on Elections, that at the last general election
            held in Laporte county, on the 11th day of October last, the contestor, Simon Wile, and
            William Shoenemann, the contestee, were candidates, and the only candidates for the
            office of Representative to this General Assembly for that county. It further appears
            from said admissions that on said day the said William Shoenemann was holding the office
            of Deputy Postmaster at Michigan City, Indiana, an office created and held under the
            authority of the United States, and that the annual compensation thereof was $1,400 per
            annum. That the said William Shoenemann continued to hold said office until the 3d day
            of January last, when he left his home to come to this city and take his seat in this
            Hall as Representative for said county; and that in the meantime said postoffice is
            being operated in his name by his employes, and that he had no knowledge on the 16th day
            of January last of the appointment or confirmation of any successor. This, sir, is
            substantially a brief statement of the case as presented to the Committee on
              Elections, and was so presented by the mutual agreement and admission of the
            parties to the contest and their legal advisers. And it was upon this state of case that
            the Committee on Elections predicated their report which was made to
            the House, and in which report they submitted a full exposition of the reasons and
            inducements which led them to the conclusion they ultimately reached and rendered it
            proper in their opinion to recommend to the House the adoption of two resolutions; one
            declaring Mr. Shoenemann not entitled to retain his seat, and the other declaring Mr.
            Wile entitled thereto. The reasons and arguments of the committee are set forth in the
            report and I will not now notice them in detail.
          The committee based their judgment upon a constitutional restriction disqualifying Mr.
            Shoenemann, and decided the case solely upon a legal proposition. This being true, it
            seemed right that the report of that committee on said legal question should be referred
            to the Judiciary Committee for investigation as that committee, as
            its name implies, is organized specially to deal with such questions. I therefore moved,
            contrary to the usual practice with reports from standing committees, to refer the
            report to that comittee.
          The Judiciary Committee has carefully investigated this case, not
            only with reference to the legal question arising upon the admitted facts presented to
            the Election Committee, but also upon additional evidence submitted
            to them. This proceeding, to say the least, was irregular. The Judiciary
              Committee should no more have gone outside the record submitted to them than
            the Supreme Court in deciding a cause on appeal should receive additional evidence not
            introduced in the court below. If it became necessary, in the investigation of the case,
            to rely upon: facts not introduced in evidence before the Election
              Committee, comity and fair dealing required that the case should have been
            referred back to the Election Committee for them to hear the
            additional evidence and consider it with a view of enabling them to change their
            decision of the case if they should see proper so to do. But I will not complain further
            of this.
          What additional evidence was introduced before the Judiciary
              Committee? It was the fact that Mr. Shoenemann had tendered his resignation
            of the postoffice at Michigan City on or about the 14th day of December, and forwarded
            it to the proper department of the Federal Government at Washington City. But the terms
            of the said resignation, whether conditional or unconditional; whether to take affect
              in presenti or in futuro, was not made clear and
            manifest. But I hold this to be immaterial and as being entitled to no weight in the
            determination of this case. For it is clear to my mind that this case is decided aliunde.
          I hold that this case is controlled and governed exclusively by section nine of article
            two of the constitution of the State. That section reads as follows: [Mr. C. reads.]
          Now in this case it is admitted that Mr. Shoenemann held the office of Deputy
            Postmaster at Michigan City on the election day, and continuously up to the present
            time. He is today the Postmaster at that place de facto if not de
            jure. He is still holding the office. The Constitution of the State disqualifies
            any one from occupying a seat here who simply holds a Federal office of this kind,
            whether the holding is de facto or de jure it makes
            no difference. This being true Mr. Shoenemann is clearly not entitled to represent on
            this floor, the county of Laporte as Representative. Any other conclusion will defeat
            the object had in view in placing this restriction in the constitution.
          What was the object sought to be accomplished by the framers of the constitution in
            putting therein this prohibitory clause? It was, sir, to exclude from these halls undue
            Federal influence. And if Mr. Shoenemann is permitted to retain his seat in this House
            this provision of the constitution is subverted. 
            For he is to-day holding by some sort of title a Federal office expressly prohibited by
            the constitution to be held by a person occupying a seat on this floor as a member.
          So far as the resignation claimed is concerned I hold it does not affect the case. The
            fact of his holding the office fixes upon him a disqualification. The simple fact of his
            having tendered his resignation does not remove his disability. Cases might arise, I do
            not say this is one, in which the Federal officer would tender his resignation with the
            understanding that it would not be accepted for the purpose of gaining admission to a
            seat on this floor, and after the exigency had passed, would withdraw his resignation
            and continue in the service of the Federal Goverment in the same capacity as before.
          I may be permitted in this connection to remark without subjecting myself to the charge
            of casting any unfounded suspicion upon the sitting member that this case presents a
            curious anomaly. The notice of the contest of his seat was served upon him on the 15th
            day of October, a few days after the election. The ground of contest, and the sole
            ground, was th fact of his holding this Federal office. He had therefore nearly three
            months to divest himself of his Federal official robes, and purify himself in the eye of
            the Constitution of our State before presenting himself at the bar of the House to take
            the oath prescribed by the Constitution, and take his seat. But this he failed to do.
            And no sufficient reason has, or, in my judgment can be assigned for the failure. He was
            in close communication with the Federal appointing power and could, in the space of
            three or four days, have signified his intention of giving up the disqualifying office.
            And, sir, unless Michigan City is populated by people actuated by different motives from
            any community I have any knowledge of, quite a number of patriotic citizens could be
            found willing and anxious to sacrifice themselves in this behalf upon the altar of their
            country, and assist in relieving him of the encumbrance. Besides, sir, the power of
            accepting his resignation and appointing his successor, lies with his own political
            friends. And it occurs to me that from motives of prudence and policy it would be
            necessary barely to communicate the fact that the seat of a Republican Representative in
            this House depended upon his divesting himself of this Federal office, to induce them
            speedily to consummate the work. The avenues to the appointing power were open to him,
            and able representatives of his party were within the shadows of the Executive Mansion,
            and he could have been relieved of this disability long before the time he appeared at
            the bar of the House to assume his duties as Representative on this floor. Congress
            convened on the first Monday in December, and this House on the fifth day of January,
            and after the assembling of Congress and before the assembling of this Legislature ample
            time intervened to enable Mr. Shoenemann to purify himself in the eye of our
            Constitution by divesting himself of this disabling office. But be failed to do so, and
            his conduct in this regard is open to remark, and he must abide the consequences of his
            failure.
          I therefore hold that by virtue of his holding a Federal office, the compensation of
            which is $1,400 per annum, at the commencement of the present session, he was, and still
            is, disqualified by the Constitution of the State from holding a seat on this floor. The
            disqualification attaches to him at the time he presents himself at the bar to be sworn
            in as a member, and, if disqualified then, no subsequent act of his can remove it. His
            divesting himself of his disability after that time would be of no avail. His right
            under the certificate of election he held would be then forfeited, and no subsequent act
            of his could revive his right Nothing short of the will of the people expressed through
            the ballot-box could renew his right.
          Having thus, to my satisfaction, at least, disposed of Mr. Shoenemann, what becomes of
            the seat he occupies? Is Mr. Wile entitled to take and hold the seat thus vacated? I
            hold, sir, that he is not, and that the same is vacant and can only be filled by the
            voters of Laporte county.
          There is a marked difference made by the framers of our constitution between cases of
            disability affecting the office of Represenative and that of membership in the General
            Assembly. This distinction is neither a new or original feature in our Constitution. The
            same distinction obtains and is recognized in the Federal constitution. Our State
            constitution in point of time was framed after the Federal constitution, and was
            patterned after it. And it is reasonable to suppose that the terms used by the framers
            of our Constitution, in cases where applicable were used in the same sense as used and
            interpreted in the Federal Constitution. Now, the Constitution of the United States
            makes a marked distinction between the office of Representative and membership in the
            House of Representatives. Whenever the Constitution of the United States disqualifies
            for Reprsentative it relates to the office and attaches at the time of the election, and
            all votes cast for a person so disqualified are virtually thrown away. But whenever it
            disqualifies for membership, it only has reference to the time the party appears to
            assume the duties and take upon himself the responsibilities of the office.
          This distinction was clearly drawn and established, so far as the Federal Constitution
            is concerned, in the celebrated contested election case of Hammond vs. Hereick. In that
               case Herrick was District Attorney for the
            United States, in Ohio, at the time he was elected a member of Congress from one of the
            districts of that State. He continued to hold said office after his election, and up to
            within a few days prior to his taking his seat as a member of Congress on its
            organization. His seat was contested on the ground of his having held said office at the
            time of his election. The Constitution of the United States provides that no person
            shall be a member of Congress who holds another Federal office. Now, if the restriction
            in the Constitution relates to the status of the party on election day, Herrick was
            ineligible. But if it relates to the time he was to take his seat, he was eligible. This
            was the issue in that case, and determined by it. This case was argued by able counsel
            and determined by eminent statesmen, and the decision was that the disqualifiction only
            attached to the party at the time he appeared to take the oath and enter upon the
            discharge of his duties, and not to the time of the election. In that case, Herrick, the
            successful candidate, on the day of the election was not qualified to be a member, as he
            was holding another Federal office. But he divested himself of this before he appeared
            at the bar of the House to take the oath as a member and upon full and searching
            investigation and calm deliberation, it was held by Congress that he was entitled to his
            seat.
           This case clearly settled the principle so far as Congress was concerned that a person
            may be eligible as a candidate who would riot in his then condition be eligible as a
            member in cases where the Constitution simply refers in its disqualifications to
            membership. And that ease also settled the further principle that when the Constitution
            refers to the office and disqualifies a party, it relates to the day of the election,
            and all votes cast for a party so disqualified are thrown away. This distinction is
            recognised and decisively adjudicated by the Congress of the United States.
          The Constitution of Indiana, as I have already remarked, is fashioned after the Federal
            Constitution, and its terms and allusions, where applicable, may properly be measured,
            expanded and determined by it. The Constitution of Indiana recognizes the same
            distinction between the representative office and membership in the organized
            legislative body. It provides that no person shall be eligible as Representative who has
            not certain qualifications. Here the disqualification refers to the office itself, and
            operates on the day of election, and all votes cast for a disqualified person are thrown
            away. Again, it provides that no person shall be eligible to a seat in the General
            Assembly who holds certain office. This is the cause operating in this case. And this
            clause, by the terms used, plainly refers to membership only, and the disqualification
            does not operate on the day of election, but the time the party presents himself for
            admission into the organized body as a member. The people elect the Represntative, but
            each House elects its own members, as they are severally constitued, by the
            Constitution, the judges of the election return and qualification of the members. Such
            being true, it is clear in this case that the disqualifying clause in the Constitution
            relied on relates to membership only, and not to the office of Representative and did
            not render the contestee ineligible to be voted for on the day of election, and
            consequently votes cast for him were not void. It was competent for the voters of
            Laporte county to vote for Mr. Shoenemann and it he had taken the proper steps in time
            to divest himself of this disqualitying office he would have been entitled by virtue of
            said election to take and hold his seat, But he did not divest himself at all, or at
            least in time.
          The constitution expressly fixes the time when the General Assembly shall meet and
            organize, being the Thursday first succeeding the first Monday in January. This year the
            time thus designated fell on the 5th day of January. Now if Mr. Shoenemann had at any
            time before that day divested himself of his disability and presented himself free and
            unincumbered at the bar of this House, I hold that he would have been entitled to be
            sworn and to take and hold his seat But if he did not do so on or before that time he
            could not do so at all. Because all questions of qualification of members relate back to
            the first day of the session. Before that day Representatives are elected by the people,
            but on the day of organization each House elects and judges of the of the qualifications
            of its members. Before organization there are Representatives elect but no members.
            Organization must take place before membership attaches. And Mr. Shoenemann having
            continued to remain under the shadow of disability up to and after that date, cannot
            hold.
          But having, as I have stated, been eligible to be voted for, the votes cast for him
            were not thrown away, and Mr. Wile can claim no advantage and treat them as void. His
            right depends upon showing that Mr. Shoenenmnn was ineligible on election day. If he can
            not show that, his right to the seat fails entirely. From what I have said, I hold it
            clear that Mr. Wile is not entitled to the seat, but that the same is vacant. I
            therefore am of opinion that the resolutions I have offered are right, and to use a
            Masonic expression, shall govern myself accordingly.
        
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            TUESDAY, February 7, 1871.
          
          
            [Morning Session.]
          
          Mr. STJOHN. Mr. Speaker: The subject  under consideration is of such a character as to demand a
            calm and dispassionate examination from every Representative of this body, not as
            partizans but as unprejudiced and impartial judges. It is a question which does not
            alone affect or interest the parties who are claiming a seat upon this floor, but goes
            behind all such considerations and reaches the right of an intelligent constituency to
            representation in the body to whom is entrusted, for the time being, the most important
            interests of the people. It is due that constituency that we treat this case with all
            the dignified consideration which it deserves; and to do this, we should for the time
            forget that some of us are Democrats and others Republicans. Neither should we act as
            mere attorneys, catching at technicalities, and reasonable doubts; but we should form
            our conclusions under the solemn oaths we have taken upon the facts as we know them to
            exist, and in the light of those books of acknowledged authority, and the adjudications
            which have been had in cases of similar nature before deliberative bodies of the highest
            order of ability.
          It is agreed that no one except the contestor and contestee, was an aspirant for a seat
            in this House, from the county of Laporte alone. It is further agreed that the
            contestee, of the votes that were cast for the office of Representative, receive a
            majority of 275. That he was duly elected, there can be no controversy, unless the
            holding of office of deputy Postmaster were such a disqualification as to render the
            contestee ineligible to an election.
          I assume, with great confidence, that the contestee, notwithstanding he was Deputy
            Postmaster was eligible to an election, and that to entitle him to a seat in this House,
            he had but to divest himself of the disability which that office threw upon him, before
            he presented himself at this bar to be sworn as a Representative. I am fortified in this
            position by not only the solemn adjudications of the Congress of the United States, but
            by the well matured opinions of our own learned Supreme Court.
          Eligibility to an election is one thing, eligibility to a seat another. If the
            contestee were not a citizen of the United States or of the State of Indiana on the day
            of election, voting for him would simply have been a void act because he was not
            eligible to an election. But if the disability were such that he could by his own act
            divest himself of it at any moment, it would not be such as would reach to and affect
            his right to sit in this House if he performed that act at any time before he presented
            himself here for membership. He is chosen a Representative by the people; he is admitted
            to a seat by this body, who judge of his qualifications for that distinction.
          I am gratified to be able to refer this House to a case almost precisely similar to
            this, which was decided in the British House of Parliament, as long ago as 1708. That of
            Sir Richard Allen, who was elected for Dunwich, and also, on the day of election, held
            an office in the customs for life, which disqualified him for a seat in Parliament. He
            was elected on the 5th of February, and on the 7th of the same month surrendered his
            letters patent under which he held the office in the customs, on the 8th of February his
            surrender was enrolled, and on the 9th of February he took his seat as a member of
            Parliament, after having submitted the facts for the judgment of that body who, without
            a division, pronounced in favor of his right to sit as a member of Parliament. I know
            well, sir, that gentlemen assert there is a distinction between that case and the one
            now under consideration in this; that Sir Richard Allen, held his office in the customs
            under the same sovereignty under which he sough a seat in Parliament, while Mr.
            Shoenemann held an office by appointment under the sovereignty of the United States, and
            seeks to hold an office here under the sovereignty of the State of Indian.
          But I am still further gratified to be able to answer that objction by reference to a
            case decided by the Congress of the United States, in the first session of the tenth
            Congress. The case of Philip Barton Key, who was chosen a member of Congress from the
            State of Maryland. He was an officer in the British army, had served as such from 1778
            until 1783, from which time he was placed under half pay, still holding his commission.
            On the 6th of October, 1806, Mr. Key was elected to Congress, for two years. Mr. Key
            addressed a letter to Mr. Erskine, the British Embassador, at Washington, formerly
            resigning his commission and half pay, in the British army, and this letter did not
            reach Mr. Erskine until the 28th or 29th of October, three days after the meeting of
            Congress, and after Mr. Key had taken his seat. This was a case wherein the contestee
            held an appointment under a sovereignty different from that under which he claimed a
            seat in Congress, and I think wholly disposes of that objection against the contestee in
            this case.
          Then, if I am correct in this, the case of Elias Earle, elected from Soutli Carolina,
            is directly in point. He was a Postmaster on the day of election, and resigned his
            office as such prior to presenting himself at the bar of Congress to be sworn as a
            representative from South Carolina, and it was held by Congress that he was not
            disqualified.
          Cases similar in principle might be multipled but I do not desire to occupy the time of
            the House by referring to them, and will pass to the question of fact so ably considered
            by the gentleman from Knox [Mr. Cauthorn.]
          Did Shoenemann resign the office of Deputy Postmaster prior to taking his seat here?
            The  discussion of this question involves somewhat
            the definition of the word "resignation." Webster defines it to be, "to give up an
            office or commission, to withdraw," &c. In the argument of this question I am aware
            that I shall be met with the assertion that some of the testimony I rely upon was not
            before the Committee on Elections, whose report is in possession of
            the House. But, Mr. Speaker, I am not here to quibble over technicalities, like a
            pettifogger before a justice of the peace, but to decide upon the right of a free and
            intelligent people to be represented on this floor by the person whom they have chosen
            by a large majority to do so.
          We are not setting as a jury in the trial of a man for his life, catching at every
            doubt, reasonable and unreasonable, upon which to base a verdict, but as intelligent
            men, with the facts before us, no matter whether they have come through the medium of a
            committee of this House or from some other source, so they be reliable.
          If Mr. Shoenemann was Postmaster at Michigan City on the day of election, he was
            competent to be voted for and elected. If he was not such Postmaster on the day he
            presented himself to be sworn as a Representative from Laporte county, he was eligible
            to a seat in this House, and no hair-splitting, trickery or catching at doubts should
            exclude him. It is in evidence, that on the 15th day of November last, Shoenemann
            forwared his resignation of the office of Postmaster, to the Postmaster General at
            Washington City. That he subsequently learned, the President of the U. S. was the proper
            authority to whom to forward such resignation and on the 19th day of December last, the
            same was received at Washington and on the 20th day of December was accepted. This
            occurred fifteen days prior to his taking a seat in this Assembly. I shall be told this
            testimony was not before the Committee on Elections. I have a
            distinct recollection that before this case was referred to the Judiciary
              Committee the admission was made upon this floor by the friends of the
            contestor that such was the fact.
          But I am not to rely upon this alone, there is other and equally reliable testimony in
            the shape of letters and dispatches. But I am not confined to this. When the case came
            on for hearing, before the Judiciary Committee, the parties were
            present, the contestor by his attorney, and the contestee in person, and both I were
            heard before the committee, upon which occasion, the contestee informed the committee
            that his resignation was so forwarded, and was unconditional. Do gentlemen doubt this
            statement? then I refer them to the letters and I dispatches which are made a part of
            the majority report in this case. We certainly do not possess the hardihood, to say in
            our places, that the dispatches received from Mr. Packard, are forgeries, or that that
            gentleman has been guilty of falsehood in stating that the resignation was received,
            accepted and the name of Willets sent to the Senate for confirmation.
          But say gentlemen these dispatches were not all of them in evidence before the
            committee. I ask, does the circumstance that they were not before the committee render
            them less true, or entitled to less weight in this House? If they would have been true
            before the committee, they are no less so here. And this House will not be justified in
            rejecting them, because they happen to become known as facts since the report of the
              Committee on Elections.
          Assuming these facts to be true, there certainly can be no one in this Assembly who
            will assert that the resignation of Shoenemann was not forwarded, received and accepted
            prior to his taking the oath as a member of this General Assembly. These acts of the
            contestee, I assert, ended his official career for the time as Postmaster, and relieved
            him of all the disability with which that office had encumbered him, and fully prepared
            him to as sume the responsibilities of the office of Representative.
          But, say gentlemen, his resignation although forwarded and received is not yet complete
            to divest him of the responsibilities and the office of Postmaster. This position, I
            think, untenable. The resignation is the act of the appointed, and not of the appointing
            power which created him; and the resignation being an unconditional act, the failure of
            the superior to recognize or accept that resignation, cannot prolong the office in the
            appointee one hour. If such be the conclusion from the weight of acknowledged authority,
            does it become the dignity of this House to plant our feet on a failure of testimony at
            the moment when the Committee on Elections had the case under
            consideration, or would it better comport with the dignity of Representatives of a great
            Commonwealth to decide the case upon the testimony before the House and in the direction
            which that testimony pointed?
          I will suppose for the sake of the argument, that it requires the concurrence of the
            appointing power to complete a resignation and to divest the appointee of his office. We
            have then this condition of things: A being appointed to office by the President,
            resigns, or attempts to do so, by tendering his resignation, which the President
            declines to accept. A becomes the slave to a two hundred dollar Postoffice, and his
            securities perpetually bound for his faithful performace of its duties. Such a
            proposition needs only to be stated to become absurd and ridiculous. If the failure or
            refusal of the appointing power to select a successor could prolong the official career
            of the  appointee, then I can plainly perceive how
            much mischief might result from such refusal.
          I will suppose the Senate of the United State to be Democratic and a House of
            Representatives chosen in which there are also three majority Democratic and that five
            of the Democrats so elected, had been Postmasters at a salary of one hundred dollars per
            year at the date of their elections and in order to qualify themselves to sit as
            Representatives they tender their resignations in due form and time to President Grant,
            who for obvious reasons declines to accept them, thereby, upon the theory of gentlemen,
            making a Republican House of Representatives, when the constituency of that House was
            clearly Democratic. This would create out of our democratic Republic a military
            despotism whose darkness would relieve by contrast the repulsive features of the middle
            ages. It is not difficult to imagine the appearance of the horrified countenances of our
            democratic friends at such a wanton disregard of the sacred rights of representation by
            one who was the servant and not the master of the people.
          Fortunately, however, the wisdom of those who have been called upon to determine this
            question, took a broader and more democratic view of the rights of the citizen, and have
            decided both in the English courts and our own, that the resignation is complete when
            the document announcing it has been received at the proper department. That it is the
            act of the officer and not of the Administration. I refer for authority on this subject
            to the case of Gilbert vs. Luce, 11 Barbour N. Y. Report 94, 95, in which it is clearly
            held that the act of the deputy Sheriff in tendering his resignation relieves him at
            once from the office without the concurrence of the Sheriff who appointed him. Again, in
            VanOsdall vs. Hagard 3, Hill, N. Y. Reports 243, where the same doctrine is as strongly
            held. Again, in the United States Digest, Vol. 2, page 317, section 30, 31, 32, 33 and
            on page 318, section 42, the same ruling is made. Again, in the United States vs. John
            C. Wright, decided by Judge McLean, it was clearly announced as sound law that the
            appointing power cannot compel the appointed to continue in office against his express
            desires. And these cases were not decided upon the local statutes of any State, but upon
            the broad and universal principles of the common law and common right.
          I trust, sir, it will be long before this free and prosperous State shall be cursed by
            a line of decisions authoritatively pronounced which shall unsettle the doctrine therein
            published or trample on the rights which it has been the delight of these eminent
            jurists to guard as the sacred inheritance of a people; rights for an infraction of
            which the fathers of the Republic, met in the shock of battle the proudest nation of the
            world.
          I may be pardoned for glancing at the Constitutional argument and objections put
            forward in the minority report of the Judiciary Committee. For an
            argument against Mr. Sheonemann's right to a seat we have the assertion of the minority
            that the provision of the Constitution found in section nine of article two, at once
            forbids the contestee a seat in this House. If this clause of the Constitution was meant
            by the framers of that instrument to prohibit the election of persons under the
            disability charged upon the contestee, I am at a loss to know what the same distinguised
            gentlemen meant when they adopted section seven, of article four, which informs us who
            shall not be a Senator or a Representative as follows; [Mr. StJ. reads.]
          Here, sir, are disqualifications which forbid an election; why are they so? Simply
            because they are disabilities from which the party may not by his own act relieve
            himself. If the disability mentioned in section nine, article two, were intended by the
            framers of that instrument to operate equally upon eligibility to an election, why do we
            find the two provisions so separated? Is it not reasonable to suppose both would have
            been contained in the same sections instead of being found in different sections of
            different articles? The inference, from the language and position of the clauses,is most
            forcible that the one was intended to inform us what disabilities prohibited an
            election, and the other such as would disable the party from taking his seat while the
            disability continued. The language of the one is "no person shall be a Senator or
            Representative" &c., the other, "no person holding a lucrative office" &c.,
            ''shall be eligible to a seat."
          There remains but a single point made in the minority report to which I desire to
            refer, and then I have done. It is asserted that the contestee held the office of Deputy
            Postmaster at Michigan City, at the date of his election, and that such holding was a
            notice to all the electors of the county of Laporte, and consequently the votes which
            were cast for him were simply thrown away, and could not be counted. This position is
            not well taken, nor can it be sustained by the course of reasoning pursued by the
            minority report.
          To support this theory ot the report the office must have been such an one as the whole
            population of the county were legally bound at least to take notice of--an office the
            jurisdiction of which extended throughout the county. The office of Postmaster cannot be
            presumed to have any jurisdiction attached to it. No particular number of citizens, were
            compelled to recognize its existence; no particular territory was bounded by its
            authority, no person in fact, within the State, except the officer himself was in any
            manner bound to recognize its existence or to avail himself of its facilities. Unless
            some one or more of these  attributes attached to
            it, it was not, nor can it be such an office as is claimed in the minority report, and
            the electors of Laporte county were in no wise bound to take notice of its
            existence.
          The citizens and electors of Michigan City and vicinity, could as well have used any
            other office in the county or State, without a question of power or right. Such an
            office as would meet the theory of the minority report would be that of Clerk,
            Treasurer, Sheriff, Auditor, &c., offices through which the citizen is bound in law
            to transact business, or leave it undone;--offices whose writs and commands the citizen
            is compelled to respect, and whose seals he is bound to recognize.
          From the facts and the law in this case I arrive at the following conclusions:--see
            page 237--middle of the second column.
          
            CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.
            
              [IN CONTINUATION FROM PAGE 239--MIDDLE OF THE FIRST COLUMN.]
            
            The question being on a motion to indefinitely postpone the Convention bill--
            Mr. CALKINS of Porter, said: Mr. Speaker, I shall take up but very little time upon
              this question. But I have thought it due to a large portion of the people of the
              State--to much the larger portion of the people of my district--that I should present
              this question here to the General Assembly. I was sorry to find that my friend from
              Putnam [Mr. Neff] was desirous of strangling this matter at the very threshhold. But
              it would seem that when a man of his eloquence and power, his position and influence
              in this House, makes such a prompt and decisive opposition to any bill, such a bill
              might be considered as no indifferent matter--as no mean thing.
            This bill which I introduced is copied from the act of 1848, under the provisions of
              which the Constitutional Convention was called in 1840, whose labors resulted in the
              adoption of the present Constitution of the State. It was copied with the necessary
              changes as to the time of holding the election (next September.) As to the question of
              calling a Constitutional Convention, it seems to me that there could be no possible
              harm in submitting this question to the people. Even if there be not any general
              feeling in favor of a convention the simple reference to the matter for a popular
              expression could result in no harm. But seeing a disposition from respectable quarters
              to trample the matter under foot, I shall present only a few considerations in favor
              of the bill--and very briefly.
            The first matter to which I desire to call the attention of the House is the
              Judiciary article in our present Constitution. It is known to all that this article
              provides for certain courts, leaving a discretionary power with the Legislature to
              provide other courts. It has been found by experience, for nearly the last quarter of
              a century, that our judiciary system is very imperfect, as now organized. And in every
              session of the Legislature we find that one-half of the entire time is taken up with
              the consideration of court bills; and I ask, respectfully, if this one fact of taking
              up so much time here with these purely local matters is not a sufficient argument to
              convince any man that we need reform in this respect? Again, the Constitution limits
              the number of Judges of the Supreme Court to five, throwing entirely too much labor
              and responsibility upon the men in this exalted position.
            It has been found by experience in the adjacent States--in Michigan, in Illinois and
              in Ohio--that five members of the Supreme bench are not sufficient; and the number has
              been increased in those States. The new Constitution of Illinois, increases the
              number, by providing that it shall not be less than seven, letting them go as high as
              may be necessary. Now, as we have been informed here, if we increase the number of our
              Supreme Judges to five, it will be at least two years before the last ease will be
              reached which is now on the docket. And what is the consequence? If a man goes into
              court to enforce the collection of his debt, it is inevitable delay. And all the
              dishonest party has to do to gain time is to appeal to the Supreme Court, and he gains
              two years time. With respect to the Circuit Courts: If we take my own district for
              example, in that district there are eight counties--about twenty-five thousand
              voters--and the business there will require the court to be held thirty-seven weeks
              out of the fifty-two. And I suppose the same can be said of other circuits. Now I
              submit that this requires a remedy in the Constitution, by limiting the number of
              inhabitants in each district or circuit; which will enable the Judges of the different
              circuits to do the business of the circuits, giving that due attention to each case
              which ought to be given. And yet we find gentlemen here opposed to increasing the
              circuits on the score of its expensiveness. I state only what is true with respect to
              my circuit and many others. And as to the Common Pleas Court--that Court has a
              jurisdiction almost co-extensive with the Circuit Court and there crowded into it is
              all the Probate business besides.
            According to my experience (though it has been but a brief experience) of all the
              Probate cases, there is not one in ten of the cases of administration and guardianship
              which is not settled by the attorneys and administrators exclusively, because the
              Judges have not time to hear them, and the result is that a great many widows and
              orphans are cheated out of their rights before the law; and I call upon  every lawyer to bear me out in what I now say. There is,
              of course, occasionally an exception--occasionally there is a judge who is alive to
              these interests, and he examines all the cases coming before him. Now these are some
              of the defects in our Judiciary system. But gentlemen say we can reorganize the system
              by legislation. I grant it in part; but so far as the Supreme Court is concerned you
              can't increase the districts and judges beyond five. Then we should call a
              Constitutional Convention, for such a body only can afford a remedy.
            I will call the attention of the House to the very perfect judiciary system of the
              new Constitution of Illinois. I have not time to read it at length, but just to refer
              to it. But there is another thing to which I ought first to refer and that is the
              importance of removing these Judges away from the influence of the mere will of
              partizans. No people, perhaps, have suffered more for these partizan decisions than
              the people of Indiana. My position here is that the Judges should be elected or
              appointed by some other method. But perhaps it would be urged that if they were
              appointed by the Governor or chosen by the Legislature the same results would follow;
              so I will leave that branch of the subject without discussion here, and call attention
              to another great defect as I claim in our State Constitution, and that is with regard
              to corporations.
            It is well know that when the Constitution was adopted there were but very lew
              railroads in the State; but to-day the railroads of the State control the entire
              balance of power as to capital. It was thought important to engraft into the old
              constitution a provision in relation to banks. Banks were then the corporations the
              people were fighting. I can remember, myself, the time when it was a peculiar hobby
              for politicians to point at the banks, as holding in their hands a very dangerous
              power. And it was thought of so much importance that they incorporated into the
              Constitution an article on the subject of banks. The subject of railroads was not
              touched in the convention. There is not a single line in the constitution regulating
              these railroad corporations. Now in the State of New York, almost everything, whether
              social, financial or political, is in the hands of those who own or control railroad
              corporations, and the people of Indiana, if not now, they are likely soon to be just a
              much controlled by railroads, and certainly will stand just as much in need oi
              regulations for railroads as the people of the State of New York. In the State of
              Illinois, that was a principal consideration urged by the friends of that measure for
              the call of a Constitutional Convention; and was regarded as the principal thing
              throughout the State. This interest in Illinois, is no greater than it is in Indiana;
              yet they found it absolutely necessary there, in order to protect themselves from the
              grasping hands of these moneyed corporations to call a Constitutional Convention.
            Now, I am in favor of railroads--in favor of building them everywhere, as needful and
              necessary to the development of the resources and the very civilization of every
              country; but I am not in favor of giving them power to monopolize the financial and
              commercial interests of the State. As the case is now, I can go to the city of Chicago
              and get a ticket to New York for five dollars less money than I can get it from
              Valparaiso or from Plymouth; and I can go to Chicago and get a freight car to the
              Eastern cities cheaper than I can get it from any interior town in Indiana. What is
              the reason of this? It is because the railroads have a perfect legal right to trample
              the rights of the citizens of the State under foot in this way. Now, it is a fact that
              these railroad corporatiens--that is, their roads are considered as quasi highways. And in one respect these corporations are common carriers, and
              their roads are highways; and in another respect they are private corporations. They
              are so recognized in the new constitution of Illinois, and I desire to call attention
              particularly to that section in the constitution of Illinois defining the rights of
              railroad corporations in this respect:
            Railroads heretofore constructed, or that may hereafter be constructed in this State,
              are hereby declared public highways, and shall be free to all persons for the
              transportation of their persona and property thereon, under such regulations as may be
              prescribed by law, etc.
            So it has been thought best to define the powers and duties of these corporations and
              place proper restrictions upon them in the State of Illinois, because they recognize
              the fact that they hold the balance of power.
            There is another thing to notice here, and that is the power of the railroad
              companies to "water their stock;" that is to say if one or two individuals buy up or
              happen to own a majority of the stock of such a corporation, in entire disregard of
              the rights of other stockholders; they can "water their stock," so as to render the
              stock owned by the minority absolutely worthless. This matter ought to be remedied. We
              ought not to allow companies to hold such entire control over the moneyed interests of
              the State and of individuals. Looking into the statutes of this State, I find a law
              passed by the General Assembly by which railroad companies have the right to condemn
              absolutely, the realty of individuals in this State for the purposes of right of way,
              of getting gravel for their road beds, and for any purpose in the interests of those
              corporations, to condemn the property of individuals and that without notice. The law
              gives the railroad corporations the right of possession--no  matter if the assessment is greatly too low no matter if
              the rights of the individual have been entirely disregarded--he is completely at the
              mercy of the corporation. It may be said that this is a matter of hasty legislation,
              and that it can be remedied in that way. My answer to that is: If there were proper
              guards in the Constitution no such hasty legislation would take place, and there would
              be no suffering of wrongs to which I have referred. The Constitution is the proper
              place in which to guard this matter. But I will not take up further time with it than
              to say this: That if the House be determined to vote down the present bill--and I
              apprehend they will--the time is not far distant when there will be such a popular
              thundering for relief at the doors of these halls as will be entirely
              irresistable--even like that which was heard in the State of Illinois. It is true, we
              do not feel this evil so much now. But every year, by the consolidation of these
              roads, wealth is being added to these corporations; and the great power that is given
              to them to trample on the rights of individuals, is fast making them great centers of
              selfish influences that should be regulated by the supreme power.
            There is another matter to which I will call the attention of the House; and that is
              in relation to warehouses. That is a subject to which the attention of the
              Constitutional Convention of Illinois was also particulaaly directed. There are no
              restrictions in this State in relation to grain warehouses. I may consign a car load
              of grain at Michigan City to some party in Indianapolis, and the railroad may deliver
              my grain to any elevator near its track without respect to my particular assignment,
              and it must be shipped from thence to the consignee at my expense. And if the railroad
              party happens to be at enmity with the party to whom I make my consignment the
              railroad may absolutely refuse to deliver it to the particular warehouse to which it
              is assigned. This matter was thought to be so important that they made it the subject
              of a distinct article in the Constitution of Illinois; and I desire to read it for it
              is a very good one:
            All railroad companies receiving and transporting grain, in bulk or otherwise, shall
              deliver the same to any consignee thereof, or any elevator or public warehouse to
              which it may be consigned: Provided, such consignee, or the elevator, or public
              warehouse can be reached by any track owned, leased or used, or which can be used by
              any such railroad companies; and all railroad companies shall permit connections to be
              made with their tracks, so that any such consignee and any public warehouse, coal
              bank, or coal yard may be reached by the cars on such railroad.
            Thus taking out of the hands of the railroad companies the power to control the
              handling of all the grain shipped on their lines. Now a railroad may build a warehouse
              of their own, and place my grain in their own warehouse. It is exclusively within
              their power to control all this, and it adds a large item to their finances at the
              expense of the people. By this means, alone, there would result to the shippers in a
              single year a gain of more than treble the expense of a constitutional convention and
              this money would be retained in the hands of shippers. The Illinois Constitution also
              defines warehouses, declaring them to be public warehouses, and provides for the
              inspection thereof.
             There is yet another thing to consider, Mr. Speaker, (and I will soon yield the
              floor,) and that is in relation to minority representation. I announce this principle
              to be true: That it is just as essential that the people of the different States of
              this Union adopt this principle of protection against political abuses, as it is to do
              anything else to maintain their own existence. Unless the different States shall
              sooner or later adopt something of that kind, in my judgment, sooner or later, such
              internal commotions will be produced that an absolute demand will be made for it. Now
              in the Illinois constitution it is provided that there shall be three members of the
              General Assembly chosen for each representative district, and every elector shall be
              entitled to cast as many votes as there are representatives for his district; and any
              person desiring to vote the three for the same candidate he shall be entitled to do
              so, and his votes shall be counted--so that two representatives of the majority party
              and one of the minority may be Representatives on the floor of the halls of
              legislation. No matter what the political complexion of the district, the minority can
              always select one and the majority two. The principle is being embedded in the popular
              mind that the whole people shall be represented. Take now the State of Delaware--there
              they elect Democrats entirely--there is no Republican representation whatever. But
              take the State of Iowa and there they have but seeenteen members that belong to the
              Democratic party out of one hundred and fifty. Perhaps, Mr. Speaker, all this has been
              well enough so far, considering the trying circumstances we have just passed through,
              but the time will soon come, when this partizan feeling shall have died away, and when
              this principle of representation will be demanded, and I believe it is just as
              essential in such a Government as ours to have the principle of minority
              representation engrafted into our organic law as it is to have a Constitution at
              all.
            Mr. Speaker: With these remarks I submit this question. I ask those who are opposed
              to this bill, what harm can it do to allow the people to say whether or riot they will
              have a constitutional convention--?whether or not there are omissions and defects in
              the present constitution which ought to be supplied and amended?--and especially when
              I have shown  that by the supply of one article
              ia a single year there will be saved to the people three times the expense of such a
              convention?
            Now, sir, I am proud of my State, but I look into the State of Illinois and I find
              that they have outstripped us as to the increase of population; and I look into the
              State of Ohio, and I find the same result. In the last ten years Illinois and Ohio
              have increased in material wealth almost one-third more than the State of Indiana, and
              I ask myself, why is it that with just as good resources, just as favorable seasons,
              just as good a people, just as enterprising, why is it that they have outstripped us,
              not only in population but also in material wealth Illinois can not be a better State
              than Indiana. She may be for agricultural purposes, but neither Illinois nor Ohio are
              ahead of our State in mineral resources. Yet it is nevertheless true that both of
              these States have in the last decade increased in population and material wealth
              almost one-third more than the State of Indiana. If this is the result of bad
              legislation, then I ask that the question be submitted to the people. If gentlemen say
              the State is ruined in consequence of bad legislation, my answer is, that just so long
              as gentlemen continue to vote capital out of the State, just so long will the State
              remain in the rear; and that may not be the fault of the constitution. But still the
              defects I have pointed out in the present constitution certainly demonstrate that
              amendment much needed in that instrument; that the better policy will be to revise lhe
              entire constitution. [See page 239.]
          
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Agent of State--The Wabash and Erie Canal--Debate in
          Continuation.
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            WEDNESDAY, February 8, 1871.
          
          
            [IN CONTINUATION FROM PAGE 244--BOTTOM FIRST COLUMN.]
          
          Mr. DWIGGINS (resuming.) This bill to abolish the office of Agent of State was
            introduced the 6th day of the session, and now the session is more than half gone. The
              Judiciary Committee has had this bill before them about half the
            time of the session, to make out a report, and with all their ability, if they have not
            had time, in God's name where will the other committee get the time to do it; we had
            better refer it to the same committee and have them report next session. This is an
            important bill and demands action upon the part of the Senate.
          Mr. GREGG. Mr. President: At an early day this bill went into the hands of the
              Judiciary Committee. What they have done in the committee room I
            don't know. I have a strong impression that this office of State Agent could be
            abolished, and I came up here with this conviction. For gentlemen to ask longer time to
            investigate the legal proposition that may be involved in this question, it would seem
            they might as well ask till the close of the session, and we would then go home without
            taking action on this question at all.
          This is no small subject. I believe the whole people of the State are interested in
            this question. We are paying too large a salary to the Agent of State. It is maintained
            by good authority that this office can be dispensed with, and if it can it is our duty
            to do it. We owe it to those we represent to do it. Then why delay this important matter
            when to-day is the day we propose to elect an Agent of State. Why, it was the action of
            the Senate early in the session to defer the election of this Agent that this very
            question might be considered. Why have we taken four weeks for this purpose, and to-day
            no nearer the point than, when we commenced? I will refer to the Governor, for I believe
            he is good authority and right when he recommended the abolishment of this office. I
            believe he knew what he was talking about; and I have not yet heard a good reason for
            the continuance of the office in question.
          Mr. BROWN. I ask the Senator to give a reason why it should be abolished.
          Mr. GREGG. I will sir. It is for the reason that that officer has no duties to perform.
            Gentlemen on the other side who are in favor of the continuance of this office should
            show cause why. My bill provides that a State officer shall perform the duties of Agent
            of State, so if anything should come up we can say: Now we keep this office nominally in
            existence; and no injury could possibly in any way occur.
          Mr. GRAY. This bill of mine makes the Treasurer of State Agent, the same as the
            Senator's, but specifically states where the interest is to be paid.
          Mr. GREGG. I am not particular as to which bill passes so the office is abolished.
          Mr. GREEN. Mr. President: The office of Agent of State was created in 1842, and located
            in the city of New York, for the purpose of transacting our Internal Improvement
            business under the Butler bill, which provides that transfers are to be made in New York
            at the office of Agent of State. Now the Agent of State is no part of the Butler bills.
            I presume any other officer of State could do the business, as the bill only provides
            that it  should be transacted through an agent. I
            am not so sure about the bill of the Senator from Randolph [Mr. Gray.] It provides for
            the removal of the office and furniture to Indianapolis and that may be a serious
            question; but this bill only abolishes the office of Agent of State; and by legislation
            we can direct that some person in the City of New York shall do the business of Agent of
            State.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. Mr. President: This office is costing the State eleven thousand five
            hundred and sixty dollars to do what can bedone in a few hours; and the object of this
            bill is to save that to the State of Indiana. Now there is a bill here from the House
            which reduces the salary of Agent of State to one thousand dollars, but does not provide
            against office rent, expenses in New York, etc., and it would leave the salary and
            compensation ten thousand and sixty dollars, and for what? To pay the interest on bonds
            unsurrendered which should be done in an hour by any banker in the city of New York or
            in Indianapolis. I want gentlemen to meet this question fairly and squarely.
          It is said that it is necessary to continue the office of Agent of State, because in
            certain contracts we have agreed to keep an Agent for the payment of our interest. Of
            course we will keep an agent, but will any lawyer insist that it is necessary for us to
            keep an agent especially for that business. May not the Treasurer of State instruct a
            bank in New York, or in this city to do the business and transmit the funds necessary to
            such agent? There is no doubt about it in the world. If gentlemen on the other side are
            right about it, until every dollar is surrendered of the debt of the State of Indiana,
            we are bound to keep an Agent of State at a salary of several thousand dollars and other
            perquisites, which will be a loss to the State of Indiana. I do not care how this
            question is reached, I want to reach it. I believe the bill of the Senator from Randolph
            is the most perfect of the two. Now in order that we may get at this matter, I shall
            vote with the Senator from Randolph that both these bills be referred to the
              Committee on Finance, and I hope the Committee on
              Finance will relieve the Senate from embarrassment by placing both these
            bill in the hands of the Senate at the earliest possible moment.
          Mr. SCOTT. Mr. President: I have had this matter in my mind since this session began,
            and some time before, and the more I think of it, and the more I investigate it, the
            more I am troubled and the harder the road seems out of the difficulty. Now, sir, to say
            that the Judiciary Committee could report on that bill now is simply
            a matter of impossibility. For that committee to wade through the records of the past
            sessions of this body and the other and ascertain the true condition of this matter
            cannot be done in twenty days or twenty-five days and they could not intelligently
            report on that subject until they had done so, else their information would be
            worthless. True, the Senate can act, if they see fit, blindly--they can take the
            responsibility of abolishing that office if they see fit. Here are fifty Senators who
            are able to take the responsibility, I am glad the Senate has relieved the
              Judiciary Committee of this responsibility.
          To get rid of three thousand five hundred or five thousand dollars would the Senate
            involve the State in the payment of millions? That would be saving at the spigot and
            leaking at the bung. Wonderful economy that would be. I don't desire any such economy. I
            am as anxious to get rid of the Agent of State as anybody on the floor. I believe if our
            resolution for an amendment to the Constitution shall become a law, we are relieved from
            that subject, but until that becomes a law we are not relieved nor can we be.
          This bill affects the great thing of the session--[see page 244--middle of the second
            column.]
          Mr. BROWN [in continuation from top of page 245.] I do not remember when the office of
            Agent of State was created, but think I may safely say, Mr. President, that the office
            was created after the Internal Improvement system was broken down, and for the
            protection of the State on the one hand, and as an act of even handed and simple justice
            to her creditors on the other. Not knowing at this time with any particularity the exact
            powers and duties imposed upon the office of Agent of State, I do know that it is the
            condition of the laws that the office of Agent of State is to be kept open the year
            round in the city of New York for the transaction of the public business of the State
            connected with the outstanding obligations. It was made a condition by the State's
            creditors in 1846-7, when they consented to the adjustment of the public debt, that
            there should be an office in the city of New York, and the State pledged her faith that
            that office would be kept there until all the outstanding obligations of the State were
            taken up. I find in the law of 1846, the following: [Mr. B. reads, "The stock created
            shall be transferable only in the city of New York," &c., and the section
            following.] The abolishment of this office breaks the contract in this bill in my
            judgment and Senators advocating it are not ignorant of this.
          Coming to the law of 1847--the supplementary act--the fifth section of that act
            re-enacts the provisions of 1846. So, Mr. President, for my self responsibility to the
            people who sent me here, I say we cannot abolish this office without violating the
            contract in the Butler bills until you have changed the Constitution  or until the stocks issued under these acts have been
            surrendered.
          The Senator over the way desires to leave the impression that there are only one
            hundred and ninety thousand dollars owing on the internal improvement stock. It has been
            paraded by Senators on this floor--it has been asserted in the public printing presses,
            and it has been attempted by public men to enforce it upon the people of the State of
            Indiana, that the outstanding stocks of the State amount to one hundred and ninety-one
            thousand dollars. Let me say to Senators who publish and undertake to make such
            declarations, that if they will sit down and find the law which provides for the manner
            in which the interests hall be collected upon computation they will find the amount due
            on them is rising seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars. Why may not the truth be
            told on this question? Why endeavor to evade it by saying the State does not owe
            anything worth taking about? The Senator from Laporte has also informed Senators of
            other outstanding obligations. Senators not in a position to know the debt of the State
            of Indiana, should understand that there is probably one million five hundred thousand
            dollars of stocks not redeemed by the school money or any other source whatever.
          The bill of the Senator over the way proposes to simply transfer the performance of the
            duties of Agent of State to another officer. Mr. President, that is not keeping an
            office of Agent of Slate. If I am the Treasurer of State, and you abolish the Agent of
            State, the duties may be performed by me, but there is no Agent of State--there is no
            office of Agent of State--there is no keeping the contract made with the State's
            creditors when we covenanted and agreed that there should be an office of Agent of
            State, in which they had an interest equal with the people in the management of the
            interests of the State. But if the business of the Agent of State is to be transacted in
            the city of New York--if a place is to be kept open there from one end of the year to
            another, as under these bills such a place must be kept open--I say it is not right; it
            is not just; it is unfair to impose that burdensome and expensive duty upon the
            Treasurer of State unless you compensate him for doing it.
          I find Senators who have been insisting upon the payment of these unsurrendered
            Internal Improvement bonds with such persistent zeal advocating the abolishment of the
            office of Agent of State, and, sir, I clearly see the motive that induced these
            gentlemen to make that effort. Take the Garrett bonds to illustrate. Strike down the
            State Agency--break this contract--and Garrett then comes to the State and says: I went
            to the city of New York to surrender my bonds and have them cancelled under the Butler
            bills but you said you had wound up the business required under the contract of 1846-7;
            and there is no law for the cancellation of these bonds; you have surrendered whatever
            rights you had under that contract; my bond says the State is pledged for the payment of
            this bond and you must pay it, and no man can stand up and maintain but that the State
            in that event ought to pay Garrett that bond with all the accrued interest: and that is
            the little job, not that Senators have, but perhaps some other persons have and are
            using Senators perhaps, without Senators seeing it, for the accomplishment of that
            purpose. They have been driven off the track in executing it in one manner, and they
            fall back and pursue some other plan. The Governor has sent in repeatedly bills asking
            that the Internal Improvement bonds be paid with interest, and to the praise of the
            Senate they have been rejected. Senators know they can pass no bills here that will pay
            these bonds at their face with interest. That part of their programme to enforce upon
            the State the paying twice what it owes has fallen to the ground, and now they desire to
            accomplish the same thing by abolishing the office of Agent of State and thus break the
            contract. I say if it can be abolished without the State incurring any additional
            liability for the payment of outstanding obligations, I am for it. I hope we will not
            run at an unusual rate of speed--I hope we will hasten a little slowly in this matter
            and I hope whatever the action of this Senate may be it will be right and that it will
            not involve the public in additional responsibilities.
          Mr. LASSELLE. Mr. President: I am one of those who believe that the office of Agent of
            State can be and ought to be abolished, because it is a useless expenditure of the
            peoples' money. I will call the attention of the Senate and the Senator from Jackson
            [Mr. Brown] to the fact that section five of the act of 1846, which he read, does not
            provide for the payment of interest by the Agent of State, it only provides that it
            shall be paid in New York, it does not provide by whom. But even suppose it did, in
            express terms, what then? Will not the Treasurer be Agent of State if we abolish the
            office and say he shall perform the duties? Do we not make him Agent of State. I am as
            anxious as any one to guard against any responsibility by the State for the assumption
            of that debt or any portion of that debt, but I have no doubt about this question.
          Mr. HOOPER. Mr. President: I am clear from the reading of the House bill that it was
            intended to cover all the expenses incident to the office of Agent of State, and if the
            terms of that bill are not broad enough to cover the entire matter then we ought to so
            amend it if we pass the bill, as to leave no question or doubt in regard to that point.
            I think the party who drew that bill intended precisely what the face of it purports to
            express--that  one thousand dollars should cover
            the entire expenses of the agency, and I repeat, if there is any doubt on that point,
            the bill should be so amended.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. I do not know who drew the bill and cannot be charged with being
            personal, but the language of the bill expressly avoids any reference to office and
            clerk hire in New York, which in the report of the last Agent of State, is put at
            twenty-five hundred dollars.
          Mr. DENBO. Where does the Agent of State get the law for drawing this twenty-five
            hundred dollars for rent?
          Mr. MARTINDALE. I don't know. I was looking for it this morning but have not found it.
            I only know that for the last fifteen or twenty years it has been the custom.
          Mr. DENBO. In the acts of 1860 you will find the law.
          Mr. MARTINDALE. That does not specifically authorise it But it does not matter whether
            it is done by the express term of the law, if it has been done and recognized by thd
            Legislature for years past this bill should specifically prevent it.
          Mr. GRAY. In regard to this question I have made up my mind. The Democratic party have
            the majority in the General Assembly and if any bad results grow out of the suits in
            Carroll county, I intend to hold the Democratic party responsible, because they have
            rejected every bill upon that question that has been introduced in the Senate. Now as
            far as this Agent of State is concerned, I undertake to say as a lawyer, that there is
            nothing in the law from beginning to end that says but what any other man except the
            duly elected officer may act as well as the Agent of State. I presume that Senators know
            that the Agent of State stays but a little time in New York City. Nearly the entire
            business of the Agency has been done by a banking company in New York. [See middle of
            first col. p. 245.]
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        Municipal Bank Shares Tax--Debate in Ccntinuation.
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            THURSDAY, February 9, 1871.
          
          
            [Afternoon Session.]
          
          Mr. MILES called up the special order, viz: the consideration of the bill [H. R. 6] to
            provide for the assessment and collection of taxes for municipal purposes, on bank stock
            and the shares owned in banks doing buisness in this State, including the Bank of the
            State of Indiana, and the same being on the third and last reading--
          Mr. MILES said: Mr. Speaker, in cosideration of that deference, I entertain, and have
            ever entertained, for the laboring masses of the people, whose solid hearts and broad
            hands have cut down the forest and made the wilderness the repository of wealth and
            national prosperity; appreciating full well the theory that there is nothing made clear
            only that which is produced from the soil--in other words, the Bank of Earth is the only
            tangible bank; it is one that never fails or refuses to redeem its promises--and being
            well aware of the fact that honest toil does not now and never has received that
            attention in legislative bodies that it is so justly entitled to, I would feel recreant
            to the trust reposed in me as one of the chosen Representatives of the Commonwealth of
            Indiana if I did not, to the best of my ability present to the consideration of the
            House the justness of the passage of the bill taxing the stock or stocks owned or held
            in banks or banking associations doing business in the State, for municipal purpose. I
            submit that it would be more plausible if legislation was made for the interest and
            encouragement of labor. But I think I speak the sentiment of the laborers of the country
            when I say they do not ask class legislation for their especial benefit. No sir, they
            are to high minded and generous for that. They are the men that give life and vitality
            to the country. They are the country's pro- and defenders in time of peace and war. Not
            withstanding all this, they ask nothing more than an equitable distribution of the
            public burdens. They are for justice; and why--because it is the ligaments which hold
            civilized people together, and those who labor to promote and prepetuate that principle
            are contributors to the best interests of the people, and it will redound to their
            honor.
          This bill proposes to tax the shares on stocks in these banks for municipal purposes
            the same as other property is taxed in incorporated cities and towns, a proposition so
            reasonable that it will certainly merit the entire support of every member of this
            General Assembly; it being so equitable and just that I am surprised that they have not
            been taxed long ago. And we should be proud of the opportunity presented to remedy a
            matter of so much importance to the tax-payers interested in the passage of a law of
            this kind.
          I am not here to represent any particular class of citizens; my only desire is that the
            laws in relation to taxation be equitable, and that every kind of legitimate buisness
            may receive that protection which will best subserve the interest of all concerned. This
            bill is founded upon the very substance of justice equalizing public expenses without
            discrimination for or against any species of property. Perhaps it may be said that under
            the law of 1855, 1 G. & H., page 142 section 14, which provides that "the capital
            stock of said bank or branches shall not be taxable for municipal purposes," this bill
            proposes to change that I law. That we have a perfect right to do so,  there can be no question. It partakes of the nature of a
            special act and not a general law.
          I hold that the act creating the Bank of the State is unconstitutional upon the face of
            it, and even if it bore the semblance of constitutionality, it has forfeited that
            protection. And, sir, it is a well settled principle of law if one party to a contract
            violates that contract the other party is released. I refer to 1 G. & H. 140,
            section 8, which reads as follows: "The said bank shall not at any time suspend, or
            refuse payment in gold or silver of any of its notes, bills or obligations," etc., and
            further, I refer to section eleven article ten of the Constitution of the State which
            provides that the General Assembly shall provide by law for uniform rate of taxation,
            etc.
          And, sir, none of these banks have for years paid one cent in of deposit in gold or
            redeemed a cent of deposit in gold or silver, as required by the Constitution of the
            State, or law that created them, and, in my judgment, this alone is sufficient to free
            the State from further obligations. And, sir, it is the height of presumption for these
            National Banks, or any one in their behalf, to aruge for one moment for their
            extenuation.
          Yet, it may be said Congress made greenbacks a legal tender which is unconstitutional.
            Article 1 section 10 of the Constitution of the United States says: "No State shall
            enter into any treaty, etc., make any thing but gold and silver coin a legal tender in
            payment of debts, or pass any law impairing the the obligation of contracts. There being
            no provision giving them that power, this is a plain violation of the Constitution of
            the United States and the State of Indiana, by interposing to change the contract of her
            citizens. Mark the change. These State banks, under the act of Congress of 1863-4,
            unmindful of their obligaticn with the State to redeem in gold and silver, immediately
            turned themselves into National Banks. And how do these National Banks redeem their
            notes, sir? With greenbacks; which I have shown is a plain violation of the contract. It
            does seem to any reflecting mind a very extraordinary demand to ask to be exempted from
            municipal taxation; and, sir, it is surprisingly strange that any one would have the
            audacity to claim that the State is under any obligations, under existing laws, after
            these State banks have violated and totally disregarded the plain provisions of the
            charter that created them.
          Mr. Speaker, I would inquire where are those State banks? Has any gentleman upon this
            floor seen one of their bills for many years? Sir, there is not one of them doing
            business in good faith to-day in the State, as set forth in their charter. It is true, a
            few still report to the Auditor of Slate, showing a few hundred dollars. These National
            banks certainly cannot pretend to say in good faith that they are connected in any way
            with the Bank of the State, their basis being entirely different. If they are it is
            foreign to every principle of justice. It must be in some way which I deem is beyond the
            contemplation of the most active mind in the wildest flight of the imagination. This is
            certainly an animal of another color. I am constrained to presume they seek to shelter
            themselves behind the glimmering focalizing State Banks to exempt themselves from
            municipal taxation.--This presumption is prima facia--so plain that no
            sane person claiming to represent the interests of the people upon this floor will have
            the effrontery to deny, and will pretend to intimate that this bill will in the least
            tarnish the honors of the State, by the imputation that she has violated her contract, a
            position that can not, upon reasonable principles, be maintained.
          The exemption is claimed under the fifteenth section of the bank charter, which
            provides that the capitol stock of each bank or banker shall not be taxed for municipal
            purposes; and also section one of article ten of the Constitution of Indiana, which
            provides that "the General Assembly shall provide by law for a uniform and equal rate of
            assesment and taxation, and shall prescribe such regulations as shall secure a just
            valuation for taxation of all property, both real and personal, excepting for religious
            or charitable purposes," etc., and you will perceive that this exemption is clearly
            unconstitutional--a proposition so plain that it needs no comment--it is as clear to the
            unbiased mind as the noonday sun.--The act of Congress creating these national banks--I
            refer to section 41 of the acts of Congress of 1863-4, page 112, which reads as
            follows:
          Provided that nothing in this act shall be construed to prevent all the sharest in any
            of the said associations held by any personal or body corporate from being included in
            the valuation of the personal property of such person or corporation, in the assessment
            of taxes imposed by or under State authority, at the place where such bank is located,
            and not elsewhere, but not at a great rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital
            in the hands of individual citizens of such State; provided, further, that the tax so
            imposed under the laws of any State upon the shares of any of the associations
            authorized by this act shall not exceed the rate imposed upon the shares in any of the
            banks organized under authority of the State where such association is located.
          There is nothing in this act exempting these shares from municipal taxation--it only
            provides that the tax shall not exceed that which is imposed on State banks.
          This bill proposes to tax both State banks and National banks doing business
            equally.--Now, sir, to support my theory that the law creating the bank of the State is
            unconstitutional, I refer you to the decision of the  Courts of the country: Bright vs. McCullough, Treasurer, etc., 27th Indiana Report,
            page 229. I will read that portion which gives a construction of the Constitution of
            Article ten, section one, which I have read, which provides taxes shall be uniform and
            equal. [Mr. M. reads.]
          Now, Mr. Speaker, I deem this decision the unmistakeable construction of the
            constitution of the State, and as settling beyond question the unconstitutionally of
            section fifteen of the act establishing the act creating the Bank of the State. And,
            sir, in consideration of this celebrated decision and the seeming justness of the
            principle involved in this bill, it certainly cannot fail to receive the unqualified
            support of every member upon this floor. It is so plain a principle of justice that he
            that "runs may read." It simply proposes to tax the stock of, or stock in these banks
            the same as other property is taxed.
          The question arises, why are the stocks taxed for State and county purposes, and
            exempted in cities and towns for municipal purposes? This exemption is certainly not
            based upon reason or sound policy. Where are those banks located? Always in cities or
            towns, and receive as much or more protection from municipal government than other
            species of property in such cities or towns, and I submit, in view of its
            productiveness, no property can afford to pay for its protection more than these
            bankers.
          I know it is claimed by those interested in these national banks that they pay more
            State and county tax on their capital stock than any other class of individuals on their
            property. I am credibly informed and believe they do not pay as much, and why? A bank
            having a capital stock of $100,000, according to the act Congress of 1863-4, page 109,
            section 33, allows those bankers to deduct twenty per cent of its capital stock as a
            surplus fund, for which they pay no taxes. Of the capital stock of $100,000, they only
            pay tax for State and county purposes on $80,000, the $20,000 of that capital stock is
            not returned for taxation by the bank, still they receive their per cent. on this amount
            which is exempt from any kind of taxation. In view of this exemption, they Sir, make at
            least from 20 to 30 per cent. on their capital stock, and with the per cent. on said
            bonds, why this demand for exemption?
          I am glad to say there is nothing of a political nature in this bill. It only presents
            a question as between capital and labor; and Mr. Speaker, my mind is fully made up. I
            will not hesitate one moment to plant myself on the side of labor. The laboring masses
            are not insensible to their rights under the constitution and laws that govern them.
            They demand, and have a right to demand, that equal and exact justice be meted out to
            all--they ask nothing more and will be content with nothing less. And, Sir, no man can
            be throughly imbued with the American idea of government who does not desire to see an
            equal distribution of the public burthen.
          You cannot smother the unjustness of this exemption. The people are aroused, and the
            earnest convictions of inquiring minds can not be smothered nor brook the lightning
            flash of enchanted thought. To embarrass justice by laws of any kind seems to be the
            rock upon which all civil institutions have been wrecked, and upon which legielative
            wisdom has never yet found an open passage or a haven of repose. I submit, if the laws
            of a country cease to protect its citizens by enacting laws discriminating by class
            legislation, it shackles the arm of industry and forbids exertion for the amelioration
            of the lot of the unfavored class. Equal protection and justice to all is the growth of
            power, the boon of liberty--without it a people may have the name but not the spirit and
            substance of equitable laws.
          When he had concluded
          The bill was finally passed by the House of Representatives--yeas, 84; nays, 9.
        
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            WEDNESDAY, February 22, 1871.
          
          
            [IN CONTINUATION FROM PAGE 345--TOP
                OF SECOND COLUMN.]
          
          Mr. BROWN (resuming.) On the third of June 1864, Congress passed a law providing for a
            National currency, and in that law it was provided that [Mr. B. reads section 41,
            printed on page 486 of this book.] This section of the currency act provides that the
            taxes imposed upon the shares of stock held by National Banks is to be imposed upon them
            for the benefit of the place where the bank is situated, and in the State of Indiana the
            place where the bank is situated is held to mean the county in which the bank is
            situated, in so far as to levy a tax for county purposes, and the township in which it
            is situated so far as to levy a tax for township purposes; and the Indiana law to-day
            is, that when you levy a tax upon a bank, for county or township purposes, you tax the
            shares of stock held by individuals in a bank lor the benefit of that county or township
            where the bank is situated, no matter where the party may reside who owns these shares
            of stock.
          But afterwards Congress passed another act, and that act provides [Mr. B. reads the
            provision which gives a construction to section 41 of the act of June 3, 1864.] Now it
            is clear under this late act of Congress that it is within the power of legislative
            authority of a State to provide that tax collected upon the shares and capital stock of
            banks in the State may  fee collected for the
            benefit of the municipality in which the person resides who is the owner of the shares
            of stock; and that in my judgment is manifestly right and proper.
          The common and well accepted rule upon the subject of levying taxes upon personal
            property is that the tax is to be levied and collected for the benefit of the locality
            in which the owner of the property resides; and if this bill passes in this present
            shape it simply is a bill providing that owners of shares of stock held by national
            banks situated in cities, the owners of which reside in distant parts of the State and
            not within the jurisdiction of the township, city, or town in which the bank is situated
            are compelled to pay taxes upon this property for the benefit of the municipality in
            which the bank is situated. I desire this bill shall go to the Judiciary
              Committee in order that they may investigate the subject to this extent and
            report to this Senate whether it is not right and expedient that this amendment may be
            adopted so that when these taxes are levied and collected they shall be in accordance
            with the general rule for the assessment and collection of taxes on personal
            property.
          The law of Congress chartering these National Banks provides that they are to be
            organized upon precisely the same terms as the State banks of the several States are
            organized, and subject to the same limitations and restrictions and none other. The
            charter of the Bank of the State of Indiana expressly provides that the bank shall not
            be subject to taxes for municipal purposes. That is part of the law and the contract
            that the State of Indiana made with the corporators of the bank when she received her
            charter. And I, for one, believe, without giving it a careful examination, that there is
            no power in the Legislature to break that contract, and that there is no power vested in
            the legislative authority of the State to levy a single dollar of tax upon the shares of
            stock held in the Bank of the State of Indiana by individuals of the State. And if it
            cannot be imposed upon the Bank of the State, the question is, can it be imposed upon
            National Banks which by the express terms of the law, are to be placed upon a par with
            the Banks organized in this State. It is well for Senators to remember that these
            National Banks are all paying tax for county, township and school purposes. The owners
            of shares of stock in these banks pay taxes upon these shares for county, township and
            school purposes; and the county of Marion, the township of Centre--I believe this
            township is called--is receiving and collecting taxes from gentlemen who live in distant
            parts of the State who are owners of shares of stock in National Banks in this city for
            the benefit of this county and township; it is collecting taxes from these foreign
            holders for the benefit of the municipality, of the county and the township and for the
            benefit of the schools of this township and county. I say, sir, that is wrong, and I
            desire that wrong to be righted. Instead of gentlemen who live in the county of Jackson
            that are owners of stock in banks in the city of Indianapolis being compelled to pay
            taxes upon their shares of stock for the support of the county of Marion and for the
            carrying on of schools in this county and township the taxes they pay on their stock
            should be for the support and benefit of the township and county in which they reside,
            and I desire that this bill shall be amended by this additional section that the money
            they pay shall go for the benefit of the schools and townships in which they reside, and
            for that reason I desire the bill shall go to the committee with these amendments; not
            with positive instructions that the committee shall absolutely adopt the amendment, but
            that the committee be requested to take into consideration this amendment and be
            required to report the bill at once and report upon the amendment.
          Mr. GRAY. Mr. President: As to the constitutionality of this bill, I think that is
            clearly settled in the 27th Indiana; and I am not not willing to allow the National
            Banks to hide themselves behind the carcus of the old bank of the State. I always
            supposed the Senator from Jackson [Mr. Brown] belonged to the Democratic party, and I
            supposed he stood upon the Democratic platform. In the Democratic platform adopted at
            the last State Convention, held last January there is a resolution declaring that the
            Democratic party is in favor of taxing National Banks for municipal purposes, but the
            Senator from Jackson says it cannot be done--that the law does not allow it, because the
            law says that the Bank of the State of Indiana cannot be taxed for municipal purposes
            and the law of Congress says that National Banks shall not be taxed otherwise than State
            Banks. So the Democratic party in January didn't know anything about the law. The
            Senator from Jackson was a candidate for Secretary of State before that convention,
            voted for that platform and profesed to stand upon it--
          Mr. BROWN (interrupting.) I don't understand that I haw said I am opposed to taxing
            these banks for municipal purposes. I have said no such thing. I say I am in favor of
            taxing National Banks for municipal purposes and trying the experiment whether it is
            constitutional or not.
          Mr. GRAY. The argument of the Senator was that it could not be legally done.
           Mr. BROWN. I say now it is a matter of some doubt.
          Mr. GRAY. It is a poor way to get a bill through at this late day in the session to
            refer it to the Judiciary Committee. It was in the hands of the
              Judiciary Committee two years ago, and then there was a long stump
            speech  printed and reported against taxing banks
            for municipal purposes. Who paid for printing it I don't know, but I do know the Senate
            never ordered it printed. I desire the Senate shall come to a vote now, and for that
            purpose, in order that I may not be accused of desiring to consume time, which I have
            partially charged upon others, I now move the previous question which I suppose is on
            the motion to refer.
          There being a second, the motion to refer the bill to the Judicary
              Committee was agreed to by yeas 27, nays 16.
          Pending the roll call--
          Mr. MORGAN, when his name was called in explanation of his vote said: This question was
            before the Senate two years ago and there was an effort made to get it referred to the
              Judiciary Committee, and they finally got it before the
              Judiciary Committee and the Judiciary Committee
            made this report and I suppose if they want to make this report they had better make it
            right off. I was told by one of the Presidents of the National Banks that the report
            cost seven thousand dollars and that they give $6,000 to the Judiciary
              Committee. Now I don't want any person put in the way of temptation and I am
            glad I am not on either of these Committees, though $6,000 I don't think will buy me or
            any gentleman on these Committees.
          I know just as soon as that bill passed two years ago there were bank officers here
            from every city in the State; yes, several of them, and I expect nearly all the bank
            officers in the State were here. It got into the hands of the Judiciary
              Commitee and the Committee a majority of them, made this report and they
            refer to several decisions here; the 11th Indiana, the 16th Indiana arid the 17th
            Indiana, but don't say any thing about the 27th Indiana. That is the last decision, and
            of course, they didn't want that. They didn't say any thing about the decisions of the
            Federal Courts; they just called up just such testimony as would suit them. It is one
            sided I suppose. The Judiciary Committee ought to look upon both
            sides of the question and report the facts as they are and as they should be. I don't
            know how far I can go in explaining my vote. I don't want to--
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR (interrupting.) Go your full length [Laughter.]
          Mr. MORGAN. Well, sir, I pump slowly [Renewed Laughter.] The Senator from Jackson [Mr.
            Brown] speaks about a large portion of the shares of banks located in cities being held
            by persons in the country, and therefore he says they ought to be taxed where the owner
            resides; but my opinion is they ought to be taxed where they get their protection--where
            there is a police force maintained to take care of them, where there is a fire
            department and where they have children to educate, so they can raise an intelligent
            class of people that will not break into banks.
          Mr. KEIGWIN. The Senator from Vanderburgh [Mr. Morgan] has cast some reflection on this
              Judiciary Committee of the Senate two years ago. They were paid six
            thousand dollars as he was informed by a bank President or officer for that report; or
            that the report cost seven hundred dollars. Judge Howk was a member of that committee--I
            see his name signed to that report, and as I occupy the chair he filled with honor and
            credit to the district, I demand to know who that bank President was. Judge Howk who
            then represented the district I come from, is above suspicion.
          Mr. MORGAN. I said the same to these gentlemen. I think this matter ought to be
            investigated for it is common report throughout the State. I don't think I am telling
            anything new about the matter.
          Mr. BROWN (in his seat.) I never heard of it before.
          Mr. MORGAN. You hear it now. I got this from two witnesses, a President of one of the
            National Banks and a director of one of the National Banks. The President of the Bank
            gave me this testimony freely and willingly, and then I went to one of the Directors and
            asked him if the levy made upon our bank was not too much. I thought fifteen hundred
            dollars more than our share. Why, said he, we only had to pay between seven and eight
            hundred dollars. Then said I, how does that come? Why, he said, It was a levy per cent.
            upon every bank in the State according to the amount of capital. They had to raise seven
            thousand dollars and they raised their share independent of the balance of the banks. If
            this thing is not true, it will be easier to investigate the matter. I state what I have
            heard, and I state it without fear of contradiction from any person that knows. I do not
            presume that the Senator from Floyd [Mr. Keigwin] knows anything about it, or he would
            not be so persistent--
          Mr. KEIGWIN (interrupting.) I am not persistent; I stand up for the honor of my
            predecessor.
          Mr. MORGAN. I think the best way is to have the matter settled by having a Committee
            appointed to investigate it.
          Mr. KEIGWIN. Did he say what pay the Judiciary Committee got?
          Mr. MORGAN. He said six thousand dollars went to the Judiciary
              Committee and one thousand dollars--
          Mr. KEIGWIN (interrupting.) I stand here to deny that Judge Howk took one dollar.
          Mr. BROWN (in his seat.) So do I, and everybody who knows him.
          Mr. MORGAN. Now, Mr. President, suppose they never received one cent, I think too  much of my friend here, and here, and here, to have
            any such statements go out about them. I don't want to see them ruined, and don't think
            it well to vote this thing in their hands because if they report back the bill or
            something similar to it, the same remarks will go out about them.
          Mr. BRADLEY (in his seat.) Six thousand dollars would not ruin their pockets.
          Mr. MORGAN. It would not ruin their pockets; but at the same time money got wrongfully
            is worse than no money at all. I know a man that was ruined by making about ten thousand
            dollars with a very small investment; and it sometimes ruins people who get money easy,
            particularly those who generally get it by hard licks. Now I can't vote for this going
            to my friends and having them ruined by such reports. I think I would be doing them
            great injustice. Not that I believe they would take one cent, but these reports will go
            out about them and they will suffer for it; and for that reason I go against it.
          I go against it too, because I believe it is right and proper that the cities should
            have the right to tax these banks for a great many reasons. One reason is that no
            property in the world can afford to pay taxes better than this. If they can't keep up a
            police force and maintain a fire department for their own protection I don't want my
            vacant property that don't bring in one cent to be taxed to protect them. If they would
            exempt my vacant property that brings in nothing I would not feel so bad for having this
            species of property go exempt.
          I don't think there is any necessity for this matter going before the
              Judiciary Committee. It has been thoroughly discussed, and it is
            the Democratic platform, and I guess from appearances that it is a good deal the
            Republican platform, that these banks should be taxed for municipal purposes. The
            General Government has provided for it;it says there is a difference between shares and
            capital stock; that shares can be taxed, but that they cannot be taxed otherwise than
            banks of the State are taxed; and for this reason we want this bill passed. The old bank
            was, in my opinion, illegally exempt from taxation for municipal purposes, and I don't
            believe in legislating for capital and for corporations against the labor and the
            individual industry of the country.
          I have not said what I have for the purpose of casting reflection on any person in this
            Senate or the past Senate. I have said what I have here; and, coming from the source I
            got it, I think there is some truth in it. It may all have went to one person or it may
            have been divided. For my part I would like to see a committee appointed and have the
            matter investigated. I vote "no."
          Mr. CAVEN. Mr. President: I was a member of that committee and want to state that I was
            Chairman of that committee two years ago. I prepared that majority report myself, in
            favor of taxing banks and laid down the law exactly by which it could be done. The same
            difficulties were suggested that have been suggested here to-day: the provision of the
            National banking law that no National Bank should be taxed at a higher rate than that
            levied by the laws of the State in which the bank is located. I prepared a report which
            I think clearly steers round that difficulty; yet the charge has been made that the
              Judiciary Committee has been bribed. There are some members present
            who were members of that committee and there are other honorable gentlemen not here who
            were members. This reflection goes abroad and it is due to them that this matter should
            be investigated. It is likewise due to the banks that it should be investigated.
            Therefore it devolves upon this Senate, as the guardian of the honor, both of the banks
            and of the members of that committee, to have this matter investigated; and for that
            purpose I have drawn up a resolution providing for it. It is perhaps not the proper time
            to offer it now, but I wish the floor as soon as this matter is disposed of in order to
            offer it.
          Mr. SCOTT, in explanation of his vote, when his name was called, said: Mr. President, I
            believe I am one of the gentlemen referred to, and I hope the senator from Marion [Mr.
            Caven] will introduce his resolution, for two reasons: one is to ascertain whether I
            have been bribed, from the information obtained by the Senator, and another is, it it is
            true I want my share. [Laughter.] I am very anxious on two points: first to be
            exhonorated, and second if it is true to get the profits. I am for a division. Having
            been a member of that committee, I want to know where the money is. I hardly believe,
            Mr. President, that the Senator is in earnest in his statement. Had he been, it seems to
            me, with the particularity with which he made it, he certainly might give the name of
            the banker he got his information from. He has no business making such an insinuation
            and refrain from giving his authority. It is unjust and at the same time uncalled
            for.
          Mr. MORGAN. I can give the names.
          Mr. SCOTT. Let's have them. I believe in having the thing known. Let us know here,
            because if we pass from this thing we may never hear of it again. I want to know his
            authority and I think I have a right to demand it.
          Mr. MORGAN. I presume the report is true. If they will appoint a Committee and send for
            any banker in the city--they can get testimony.
          Mr. SCOTT. I want to know the name of your informer.

          

          Mr. MORGAN. I do not know that it is necessary to give it. I can.
          Mr. SCOTT. I think the Senator ought to. It is unfair to make an allegation and
            withhold the name of the party from which he derives his information.
          Mr. MORGAN. When the Committee is appointed I will give them the names.
          Mr. SCOTT. I prefer his giving them now, so we can have something to act upon.
          Mr. MORGAN. I presume the Senator will not doubt my word that I heard it.
          Mr. SCOTT. Unless the Senator gives the name I may have cause to.
          Mr. MORGAN. Then I shall insist upon the investigation.
          Mr. SCOTT. I think I have the right to demand the name of the person charging me with
            bribery.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Perhaps not the right to demand it pending the roll call.
          Mr. SCOTT. If it is in order to make the allegation it is in order for me to demand the
            authority. He declines to give it and I pronounce it, sir, as far as I am concerned,
            false. I know nothing about any body else. I vote--what is the vote on? [A voice--"on
            refering."] In favor of it because I believe it to be right. I vote "aye."
          Mr. STEELE, in explanation of his vote, when his name was called, said: Mr. President:
            I made this motion in good faith believing there was a very grave legal question in this
            bill which ought to be discussed here. I had full confidence in this Committee
              on the Judicary to investigate that matter. As far as I am concerned I am
            not looking to the platform of the Democratic party or the Republican party. I have a
            duty to do and I mean to do it irrespective of platforms or what may be said by men
            inside or outside of this House. I do not intend as far as I am concerned, to cast any
            reflection upon this committee or any other committee. I think it the right place for
            this bill to go.
          When this matter was first presented to my mind it occurred to me that it was right
            that this bank stock should be taxed for municipal purposes. I cannot see anything wrong
            about that, without it be as the gentleman from Jackson says, they should be taxed at
            some other place for the same purpose; and if it belongs to the citizens of other places
            I think it eminently proper that they be taxed at those places instead of at
            Indianapolis or any other place where the bank may be located.
          I have no doubt but that this committee will do right without any bonus of six thousand
            dollars. I am informed--the gentleman from Marion can state more correctly--that as far
            as keeping up the city government here for the defense of this property the banks have
            provided money for such purposes. I don't know how that is and don't care. I am willing
            it shall go to the committee. I vote "aye."
          The result was then announced as above recorded; so the bill was referred to the
              Judiciary Committee.
          Mr. MARTINDALE moved--see page 345--middle of the second column.
          The following report from an investigating committee of the Senate authorized by the
            resolution printed on page 345, was handed a journal clerk the day after the final
            adjournment, with a request that it be incorporated in the Secretary's minutes of the
            proceedings of that body:
          "The Select Committee of the Senate, to whom was referred a resolution of the Senate
            directing said committee to investigate the truth of the statement that money, or any
            other pecuniary consideration was paid by the National Banks of this State to some of
            the members of the Investigating Committee of the Senate in 1869, to
            induce them to report against and use their influence, to prevent the passage of an act
            providing for the taxation of the capital stock of such banks, for municipal purposes,
            report that the committee have given the subject such consideration as its importance
            demands, and after examining many witnesses, including an officer of each of the
            National Banks of Indianapolis, have been unable to find any proof of the truth of the
            statement referred to in the resolution. The testimony of each and all of said witnesses
            are herewith respectfully submitted.
          [Signed] "A. STEELE, "HENRY TAYLOR, "J. R. BEARDSLEY."
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        Female Suffrage--Debate in Continuation.
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            WEDNESDAY, February 15, 1871.
          
          
            [IN CONTINUATION FROM PAGE 292--TOP
                OF SECOND COLUMN.]
          
          Mr. BEESON. Mr. President: I have but a few remarks to make in defense of the minority
            report; [printed on page 279] and I would say at the outset, Mr. President, I am
            satisfied of one fact; that no more important question than the one presented by this
            minority report can, ever has, or ever will engage the attention of this or any other
            Legislature. It is simply a question involving the right of one-half the citizens of the
            State of Indiana--or, at least, extending the right of one-half to that equality enjoyed
            by the other. And well do I know, Mr. President, that there has never been any
            reformation made in the world, since civilization dawned, but what has been brought
            about by a struggle; and in looking over the history of the world we find the very
            principle that is involved in this amendment, has been that which has convulsed every
            age and every nation--the struggle to seize and obtain the rights wrested from them by
            the ruling power.
          Then, Mr. President: when I say that this absolution involves a question of as high and
            perhaps greater importance than any that ever has, ever can, or ever will engage the
            attention of this body. I say that which gentlemen here will readily concede. For when
            we scan the history of the world we see this struggling for equality has been against
            the iron grasp of tyranny which has ever attempted to exercise its power; and these
            ladies to-day in their memorials which lie in my desk are asking nothing more than the
            struggling millions have contended for in all the by-gone ages of the world. [Applause.]
            Then, Mr. President, it is time we should do away with the relics of the dark ages, and
            in these enlightened times enact measures that will lift the burden from the shoulders
            of these petitioners asking for the rights and equalities that belong to them as
            citizens of our common country.
          You might to-day go with me--and I won't attempt it; for I do not intend to make a long
            speech--but go in our own time into those countries east where pagan superstition is the
            order of the day; for instance, go with me to the land of the Mahommedans, and what do
            you find there, even to-day? You find in that country, where the faith is promulgated by
            the sword--the female being unable to exercise that power, she is looked upon by him who
            wields the power of the sword as a creature without a soul, and denied the privileges
            common to the other sex. Then come to our own country even, and look at the condition of
            the aboriginees, and there you will find the elevation of the man--the red
            warrior--measured by the belts around him and the number of human scalps dangling
            therefrom; you will find his lordship will be estimated by that, and the women, being
            unable to do as he does, are looked upon as mere slaves to his lordship.
          The whole tenor of civilization, the very essence of the change it made in the dark
            ages of the world, is the law of equality for the law of the stronger. Is it not meet
            and fitting under our advanced civilization, that the sex of which the milder virtues
            are the peculiar graces,of which love in its purest and widest acceptation, is the
            characteristic attribute,is it not I say, in accordance with the very spirit of
            civilization that woman should come to be regarded as the equal of man?

          

          Then, Mr. President, as the shackles of superstition and bigotry, and I might say
            despotism falls from men, this conventional right of equality is extended; and where
            that is extended, no longer can it be said that there is an oppression of a part of the
            ruling power. Well do I recollect the time a subject similar to this was agitated twenty
            odd years ago, when the Constitutional Convention was in session and a proposition was
            made by the honorable delegate from Posey--Robt. Dale Owen--and he proposed to do what?
            To extend to married women the right to hold their own property independent of the old
            law doctrine. I well rocollect the conflict that rose in that Convention, and that the
            distinguished representative from Dearborn county--Mr. Holman--spent four mortal hours
            to prove that if you broke down these long established customs, you would upturn the
            whole principle of civilized society. And I recollect another distinguished
            representative from Putnam--Mr. Badger--spent three long hours to prove that these long
            established customs were not only contrary to human law but to divine law. And I have no
            doubt the proposition now the under discussion will be met very much in same manner that
            was at that time--that it will upturn the whole principles of society--that it will
            unhinge that which the customs and usages of society have handed down to us for
            ages.
          I wish to say but a few words more. I acknowledge that here is not the proper or the
            right place to urge the practicability or impracticability of this measure; for let me
            say we are not now passing on this question--we are not making an organic law for the
            State of Indiana; we are simply, in accordance with the prayer of these petitioners,
            which lies in my desk, taking legal steps to place this matter before that tribunal from
            which there is no appeal--the people of the State of Indiana; and let the voice of the
            people be heard on that matter and whatever that voice may be, I for one will be
            satisfied with it.
          Then I want to make this further remark and close, for I know there are some speeches
            to be made on the other side. It is contended that woman is incapable of discharging
            these duties. I would simply ask the question, What elevates man to the high position he
            occupies? Is it not surrounding circumstances? Woman as well as man is emphatically a
            creature of circumstances; and when in the history of the world has woman proved
            inadequate to the circumstances surrounding her? Was it Queen Elizabeth who governed and
            controlled the mightiest nation in the world? Was it the arm of a heroic girl that
            struck down Murat, at whose nod all France trembled? Or Madam Roland, the most eloquent
            woman that ever was stricken down by the iron heel of despotism? Or the mothers of the
            revolution who said to their fathers, sons and brothers, "Go forth and do battle against
            the tyrant King George, and conquor or return no more?" Or was it in the late civil war
            when carnage and destruction swept off some of the best sons of our country that she was
            found inadequate to the task? She was found not only upon the battle field, but in every
            hospital administering to the wounds and necessities, and making smooth and easy the
            dying bed of many a soldier who gave up his life that you and I might live.
          When the question comes before the people, if we pass this proposition and place it
            before them in a legal form, I hope to meet the gentleman from Jackson on the stump and
            we will go hand in hand arguing this question; in the broadest and fullest sense--the
            question of the equality of all the citizens of the State of Indiana. That, Mr.
            President, is my politics, and I would say I am gratified of one thing, as far as I am
            concerned, and I don't say it boastingly, but it has ever been a charteristic of mine to
            assert what was right and then have the courage to maintain that right.
          Mr. MORGAN. Mr. President: I suppose I will have to claim that I have a great deal of
            courage to get up at this time after so much eloquence, but I feel like I am in a
            position where I ought to explain myself, and I want to do so before any more eloquence
            is displayed. I will preface my remarks by saying I do not allow any man to admire women
            more than myself; [laughter] I think a great deal of them; and I never saw a pretty
            women yet but I fell in love with her. [Renewed laughter and applause.]
          Mr. BROWN. I desire to ask the Senator whether that love was always reciprocated?
          Mr. MORGAN. That is questionable. [Laughter.] I wish you would keep order Mr. President
            for I don't want to be interrupted.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR I hope the Senator will not be interrupted.
          Mr. MORGAN. I have always been of the opinion that if women want to vote they should
            have the privilege of doing so: and the only question with me is whether they want to
            vote or not. I offered the resolution [see page 125] to have a Committee appointed to
            draw up a resolution to amend the constitution of our State giving the women of the
            State the right of suffrage, and I expected by that to keep in the good graces of the
            ladies; I had no other idea of it; but since it went abroad that I had done this they
            turned upon me and say I am their enemy; [laughter] that I could not think of this thing
            till after the XVth amendment was adopted. Well, I didn't like that [Laughter.] They
            say; "If you had thought of this a few years before and gave us the right of suffrage we
            would have been glad of it and would have accepted it, but now we will not  accept of it right off." They don't like to be brought in
            right behind the negroes. For that reason I signed the majority report saying it was
            inexpedient at this time to legislate upon the subject. I think it would be better for
            the ladies. They would feel less humiliated to wait a little while until these XVth
            amendment tracks are somewhat obliterated.
          But if I thought I could gain their admiration by advocating this resolution I should
            most certainly do so. [Laughter.] I love the admiration of women like my friend from
            Wayne [Mr. Beeson.] I believe he does too [Renewed laughter.] But somehow we have taken
            different roads. We have divided on this question and I believe I am right. I believe I
            will gain the admiration of women by having this matter postponed a year or two until
            this XVth amendment question is out of the way. Those ladies who have spoken to me on
            the subject have all spoken in that way, but if I thought they were in the minority I
            certainly should vote with the minority for this report. It looks a little wrong to me
            that high minded; honorable ladies should be brought in contact with negroes;--it must
            be revolting;--I know it is; and I don't think they want to be associated with them in
            politics or in any other way. I know they don't and for that reason I oppose it. I do
            not oppose it for any other motive. I was in favor of it, for I brought in the
            resolution, and I certainly would not have done that unless I had been in favor of
            it.
          I tell you, Mr. President, that ladies are the best electioneerers in the world:--I
            know it by experience. They can out-electioneer twenty men and do it in half the time.
            It would be giving them an undue advantage--one portion of the family over another
            portion; and I don't thing that would be right; but if they would all come out and
            accept the franchise I say with both hands up and with all my heart: Give it to them.
            But if they are not willing to accept it; only here and there one, I say it would be
            doing the balance of the ladies injustice to force this thing upon them. I am for the
            ladies, I want you to understand.
          Now I say there are many things that ought to be changed for the benefit of the
            ladies--a great many things. I don't think our laws are just, and I think they ought to
            be corrected, but there is so much to correct, that a young politician like myself
            hardly knows where to begin to accomplish what is required. But I hope to live to see in
            my middle age these things all corrected and see the ladies have justice done to them. I
            hope to see the laws of descent changed;--I want to see ladies hold their property
            independent of their husbands, and see a thousand little different things
            corrected;--every advantage in education; and in every point the largest political and
            social liberties given that is to make them equal in every respect with men. With these
            remarks I shall leave the subject, hoping I have not offended any person, particularly
            the ladies--I don't care anything about the men.
          Mr. DWIGGINS. Mr. President: This is not a question to be treated with levity; it is a
            question of right; it is a question that the men of this Senate ought to meet fairly and
            squarely upon the merits of the proposition. Now I say it is a question of right, and if
            it is not expedient today I would like to know when it is expedient. As the Senator from
            Wayne [Mr. Beeson] says we are not adopting this amendment; we have not the power to say
            that women shall or shall not vote; we are proposing simply to submit it to the voters
            of the State--to the men of the State, to say whether or not the women of the State
            shall have equal and even-handed justice with the men and coequal rights. That is all
            there is in it. This is not a question of policy; this is not a question whether the men
            of the State shall vote or not; it is not a question whether the women would vote with
            the Democratic or with the Republican party or not; that does not weigh a feather's
            weight in my mind: but it is simply a question of right and justice to them.
          Go back in the history of the world, and how long ago was it that women were considered
            as mere slaves? Go to the uncivilized countries and you will find the woman degraded and
            looked upon simply as a slave--as simply a servant of her husband; while women in
            civilized countries have more rights, are more respected and better educated. That being
            true why stop when we have got half way up?
          Mr. DITTEMORE. Is there any considerable number of the women of Indiana asking for the
            privilege the gentleman is contending for?
          Mr. DWIGGINS. I am not acquainted with all the women of the State [Laughter] but as far
            as I am a large majority of them are.
          Mr. DITTEMORE. By petition.
          Mr. DWIGGINS. Now, sir, it is said by those opposing this proposition, though not urged
            upon this floor, that if women are allowed to vote, they will go with men to the polls,
            and that there is an atmosphere surrounding the polls on the day of public elections
            unsuitable for women to be in; in other words that the way we conduct our elections at
            the polls they are not a proper place for women to go.
          Mr. BROWN. We don't conduct such elections in Jackson county.
          Mr. DWIGGINS. I am very glad to hear it: but that is one of the objections urged by men
            opposing this proposition. If that be true, sir, it admits too much. It proves too much,
            sir. If it is true the polls are so con-  ducted by
            men that it is improper for decent women to go there, then we ought to do two things, we
            ought to pass this amendment and another disfranchising the men and turning this matter
            over to the women, if the men have run it down to the heel in that way.--But, sir, why
            is it? Now why is it that men so object to women voting? Why raise a great many simple
            excuses? It is a very easy matter for a man to get excuses when he wants to. But the
            real reason, I apprehend, is this: I set it down that where you find a man opposed to
            putting any other human being on an equality with himself as far as political rights are
            concerned--if opposed to giving either man or woman equal chances with him in the race
            of life, I will show you a man who is a coward. I say, sir, the man opposed to giving
            his fellow man an equal chance with himself in the race of life is a moral coward,
            because he is fearful of being left way behind in the race.
          It is objected too, that the people of this country are not asking for this--that the
            men are not asking for it--that this Legislature if they pass this resolution are
            forcing upon the people something they do not ask for. Under the Constitution of the
            State if this proposition for a Constitutional amendment is adopted by this Senate and
            the House in the other end of this capitol; it lies upon the table and remains there
            until the next regular session;--for two years, and then it has to be passed again by
            the next General Assembly before it is submitted to the people. The only effect of it is
            this: if you adopt that amendment, or whether you adopt it or not I don't care, the
            question will go into the next political campaign, and you will find that the people are
            demanding it, both men and women; and it will be the duty of the next Legislature to
            adopt it and submit it to the voters of the State.
          Mr. DITTEMORE. I will ask whether or not ladies are to be permitted to vote on this
            question.
          Mr. DWIGGINS. My opinion as a lawyer, is that women are entitled to vote under the
            XlVth amendment--negroes and everybody else, but I desire to put this question beyond
            all cavil. If women are entitled to vote why are gentlemen passing this resolution? If
            they have the right why not recognize it by an act of legislation? But there are
            existing doubts about it. I give it as my opinion that they have the right, but it is a
            question that lawyers differ about, and women never will have the privilege of
            exercising that right until the Constitution is amended.
          Now, sir, I have said all I desire to say on this proposition, but I do want to see
            this: I want this proposition met fair and square and not laughed off, or attempted to
            be laughed off. It is a serious question and the ladies who memoralize this Senate ask
            that the Legislature should give this question a fair and candid hearing. I desire
            Senators shall meet this question fair and candidly, and if there are objections why
            this amendment should not be passed--if there are good reasons why women should not have
            the privilege of voting, let us know what they are, and not talk about being great
            friends of the ladies, and refuse to grant their petitions. I am a friend of the ladies,
            but don't propose they shall all be friends of mine by my action on this proposed
            amendment, and I don't care whether they are or not, I simply stand upon this question
            as a matter of right. The ladies of the State have no other way of obtaining this right
            except in this very way, and when they come here decently and modestly and ask us to
            meet the question and answer the question in sober earnestness, let us do it and do it
            manfully.
          Mr. HADLEY. Mr. President, like the Senator from Vanderburgh, [Mr. Morgan] I have had
            some connection with this subject in committee, and it is perhaps necessary for me too,
            to make some remarks, if I would be properly understood by all my constituents.
          This question has come before the Senate without any aid of mine, for while it is one
            that has been much discussed of late, it is, nevertheless, one that I have very much
            desired to avoid a vote upon. I have desired to avoid a vote upon it, not because my
            mind is unsettled, but because of the exceeding delicacy of the subject. It takes a
            braver man than I am to stand up in his place in this Senate and boldy and indifferently
            oppose a measure that is being so zealously urged by so many intelligent, high-minded
            and cultivated women; and it is the very high regard I have for this class of women, and
            the reluctance I feel in exposing myself to their displeasure that makes me hesitate to
            meet this issue.--Whatever levity there may have been in our conversations in society,
            or want of seriousness of our behaviour in the presence of these fair combatants, it
            must all be laid aside to-day, for when we come to vote under our constitutional oaths,
            we will be expected to adhere to the record we make when the fact comes, which seems to
            be not very far in the future.
          As a principle of abstract right, there seems to my mind to be no sufficient reason why
            the elective franchise should not be extended to the women: that they would exercise it.
            cautiously, and intelligently, and on the side of right generally, as urged by the
            Senator from Jasper [Mr. Dwiggins] there is perhaps no doubt; but if the exercise of
            suffrage would pronounce absurdities and injurious consequences to the sex and society
            in a greater measure than the protection it would afford, or good it would do to
            society, then, as a matter of expediency it should be withheld: Not arbitrarily withheld
            by the men, but  withheld by the women themselves;
            for this question, as a matter of right, belongs, exclusively to the women to
            settle.
          Woman is created with the same inalienable rights that man is created with, both as to
            life and property, and it is not within the power or spirit of our Republican
            institutions for us to say by an act of legislation to any class of men that they shall
            not pervert their lives, or bankrupt their fortunes, or abstain from a certain pleasure,
            or that they shall engage in a certain amusement, however beneficial it would be to
            society, for it is the inherent right of every one to do as he pleases about such
            things, and no more have we the right or the power to say by an act of legislation that
            woman shall be emancipated or that she shall forever remain just tbe woman she is--or in
            other words that she shall vote or that she shall not vote. This then being my view, if
            these resolutions looked to the submisson of this question to the women of the State I
            should not be found opposing them, for however much we might regret to see woman exposed
            to the corruptions and wickedness of politics, we have no right to say that she shall
            not be so exposed if she insists upon it.
          I do not favor the submission of this question to the voters of the State at this time
            for the reason that the men are not demanding it, and I believe a large majority of the
            women are not desiring it, and it is wrong to thrust a question before the people that
            will revolutionize society, array the sexes against each other and against themselves,
            and that can not possibly promise us any good result. Female suffrage would be an
            innovation upon society that has no reliable precedent among all the nations of the
            earth since the foundation of the world and while I believe that we have attained the
            greatest civilization and the highest standard of Christianity of any nation in the
            world, I am not ready to admit that any excellence in civilization will prepare us for
            female suffrage. And in the remarks I make upon this subject I sincerely desire to speak
            most respectfully of the class to which I have before referred, and all the time to be
            construed as entertaining the very highest esteem for those sincere, devoted, self
            sacrificing women who so conscientiously persevere in its consummation. But I am selfish
            enough to believe that God, in creating man, prepared him for certain special duties of
            life, and in creating woman prepared her for certain special duties of life. That among
            the special duties assigned by nature to man is, to furnish the necessaries of life to
            his wife and children, and to protect and defend his family, to provide government, to
            enforce government, and, in short, to do all the rougher and severer duties of life.
            That among the special duties assigned by nature to woman is, to train children, to
            preserve the morals of society, and to hold our race in close communion with the Creator
            by her love and gentleness, and, in short, do all the lighter and more delicate duties
            of life. These deductions, I believe, are warranted by Revelation and by the anatomy of
            the two sexes.
          God has ever chosen man to carry out his vengeance, and conduct great enterprises; and
            on the other hand, he has ever chosen woman to perform deeds of love and mercy. Moses
            was called to smite the Egyptians, and deliver the Children of Israel; Samuel and David
            to fight the battles of the Lord; Solomon to rule a nation and build a temple; the
            twelve apostles to preach the gospel of salvation from city to city, and die martyrs of
            the church; but it was woman that brought the alabaster box full of precious ointment,
            and poured it upon the head of her Lord, which deed was commanded by Him to be preached
            as a memorial of her sacrificing love throughout the whole world. It was woman, only,
            that so loved her Savior as to wipe his feet with her hair, and it was the abounding
            love, mercy and sympathy of woman that caused her to linger last at the Cross, and took
            her first to the Sepulchre. God knows the purposes for which he created man and woman
            and whenever he has power to enforce, or hand or head work to do, then man is brought to
            the task; and whenever he has heart work to do, then woman is His agent.
          And anatomically considered, man is created the strongest, is given the greatest
            stature, the broadest shoulders, the longest arms, the hardest muscles, the largest
            feet, the coarest voice, the strongest lungs, the greatest endurance, a callous and
            stubborn heart to carry him through unpleasant duties, hair upon his face to protect him
            against the blast; and were all these superlative qualities created in man for no
            purpose? If it had been intended that all the duties of life should be reciprocal and
            equal, would the sexes have been created in such great inequality? Was it a mere
            accident on the part of the Creator?
          But further, these coarser qualities that I have mentioned as belonging to the male of
            man, are not confined to our race, but are found to exist in similarity, in all the
            higher orders of animal creation--animals that act and are governed only by
            instinct.
          If we visit the prairies, we find that it is always he that is
            largest and strongest; he that has the hardest head, the stiffest
            neck, the most impenetrable mane, that it is he that is in authority,
              he alone that leads the ten thousand bisons where he will, and when
            he will. Consider also the lion in the wilds of Africa, and we will again find that it
            is he that is strongest, he that roars the loudest,
              he that has the sharpest teeth, the greatest courage, a heavy mane
            about his neck for defense, and he
             that does the fighting for his family while his
            gentler mate is nursing the cubs in the jungle. Come down the scale of animal creation,
            even to the barnyard, and we will there, too, find that it is he that
            is largest and coarest; he that is provided with spurs and courage to
            attack the invading stranger; he that leads his weaker and modester
            mate into your neighber's garden; and he (may I be allowed to add)
            that does all the crowing for his race, and indeed, Mr. President, there is a
            superstition among the women of the land, that if a hen encroaches upon the crowing
            prerogative it is an ill omen, and she is at once led to execution for it.
          Mr. DWIGGINS (interposing.) I would like to ask the Senator if he believes that?
          Mr. HADLEY. I am not informed as to that question. In view, then, of the uniformity in
            the organization of the animal kingdom, will any one have the effrontery to say that it
            was no part of the Divine plan?
          Force and power being the natural source of authority, if we adopt these distinctive
            qualities to the various duties of life, to what conclusion does it bring us?--to none
            other than that God wills that the male of His creatures shall be dominant in authority.
            And again--if political rights are equally enjoyed, then political burdens should be
            equally imposed, and if woman exercises equal rights in providing government, she should
            be required to take equal part in enforcing government; and this leads us to a practical
            impossibility. Women can not be soldiers any more than men can be angels. This
            experiment has been tried in the dark ages, and, although nature was deformed in
            infancy, and the girls taught and drilled in all the arts and sciences of war and
            chivalry, battles could not be fought with any success for the timidity and
            tenderheartedness of the soldiers, and much less could the women of the nineteenth
            century, in this advanced age of civilization, endure the suffering, the misery, the
            anguish, and heart rending scenes of a modern battle-field. It then being impossible for
            women to take part in enforcing government, this fact should at least in some degree,
            impair the equity of their right to take part in providing government. The laws of
            nature are more insurmountable by this movement than the opposition of men.
          The right to vote seems to necessarily carry with it the right to hold office, and we
            have seen some of the absurdities of female office-holding in the Territory of Wyoming
            of late. No political privilege or promotion will relieve woman of her natural
            responsibitities. From the humble seamstress to the haughty queen her natural duties and
            burdens remain immutably the same, and the time will never come when they will be
            remitted to accommodate place or fortune. Mrs. Morris, of the Territory of Wyoming, is
            the first and only judicial officer the world has ever known, and she has been one but
            for a short time, and soon after her promotion, nature, in vindication of herself,
            compelled the Judge to suspend her official for her domestic duties, with no doubt great
            embarrassment to her, and serious prejudice to the community in which she held her
            office. And a few weeks ago a paragraph was going the rounds of the papers, relating a
            circumstance occuring in the same territory, how that a certain mother was called to sit
            as a juror for one long tedious day under the orders of the court, and how three or four
            times during that day the husband was seen to quit his workshop, go to the dwelling, get
            the little babe and wend his weary way to the court house carrying the infant to its
            mother in the jury box. Now this may all be in harmonious accord with natures' laws and
            social propriety, but what instinct I have, if any, teaches me that if the husband could
            not have represented that family in court that day, it should have been excused. And
            these are no extraordinary cases, for if female holding office was general over the
            country they would be very commonplace indeed.
          As I have said before the right to vote seems to necessarily carry with it the right to
            hold office, and the right to hold office will inspire ambition to obtain it; and this
            suggests one of the most unpleasant consequences I see in the movement. It is certain
            that woman's resolution and perseverance, if possible, surpasses that of man's. It is a
            rare case that she sets her head and her heart on an object that she does not reach if
            found in reasonable probabilities. So it would be if she were a candidate for office. If
            she wanted office bad enough to ask for it, she would want it bad enough to work for it;
            and she would have to work for it just like men work for it. She would have to throw off
            the mantle of her modesty, banish all her female graces, and visit the electors--not
            only in respectable family circles, but visit them--anywhere, everywhere, in all sorts
            of places, and all sorts of times. Get the office would then be her object as it is now
            man's; honestly, fairly, peaceably and quietly, if possible, but get the office.
          It will be said that I am putting a strong case here, but I do not believe that I
            am.--Woman is fallible, as man is fallible; woman is ambitious as man is ambitious; and
            when she becomes a candidate, she can say with much fitness, "these things are accepted
            as respectable in man, why not respectable for me, his political equal?" Such things
            would be suicidal to society, and yet the natural consequences of female suffrage. Say
            nothing about the unpleasant and ruinous conflict it would begat in family opinions; say
            nothing about the obstinate refusal of a large proportion of our best and modestest
            women, to expose themselves to the vulgar rowdyism of men on election days;  say nothing about the undue influence of men over their
            wives and daughters in all happy, harmonious families; and even then perfect political
            equality is very undesirable by both women and men. Women would not lose the adoration
            of men, and man would not lose the happiness he derives from that retiring, modest,
            quiet, loving wife of his bosom.
          Woman is not only unfitted for political equality, but also for professional
            equality.--Though there are many things in all the learned professions that she can do
            with eminent fitness, yet in the generality of duties she can not compete with the
            sterner sex. We take a girl and a boy at fourteen and place them in the University. They
            graduate at twenty-one, equal in intelligence and cultivation. But they have now arrived
            at a marriageable age, and they get married and enter upon their professional lives with
            equal advantage and equal prospect of success. In a short time the woman is driven by
            nature into retirement for several months, but the man goes right along, gaining all the
            time in business and knowledge of his profession, while the woman is losing in both.
            These interruptions, occuring perhaps frequently, till her life is well spent, and the
            man gaining in advantage in each, makes the contest so unequal, so unfair as utterly to
            preclude the possibility of a successful competition. Woman must renounce her nature,
            she must pervert the primary object of her creation, or must acknowledge that man has
            and ever will have the advantage in political and professional respects, and it is God
            that has circumscribed her; it is God that has laid the embargo upon her and not
            man.
          It has been said that women are taxed without representation. Now this is true only in
            a very small sense. There is no tax levied upon women. If she has no property she pays
            no rates; but it is otherwise with men. A man may not have one cent's worth of property
            in the world and yet he must pay his per capita tax for the support of the schools and
            county and State government. It is not so with women; she pays nothing for either if she
            has no property. It is the property that is taxed, without reference to the
            possessor.
          It is also urged in argument that we enforce our laws against her, and she should have
            a voice in making them. Now I confess that this drives me into a closer corner than any
            other of their arguments. But we make great amends for this apparent wrong in the
            liberal provisions of our laws.
          I am not acquainted with those oppressive features of our laws alluded to by the
            Senator from Vanderburgh. He must have found them in the statutes of some other State.
            Our statutes are certainly in her favor; for instance, there is a certain class of
            slanderous words for which our law gives a right of action to woman, and denies to man.
            And tn our desent laws, if a husband die leaving a wife and one child, the wife takes
            one half of his whole property, while if a wife die leaving a husband and one child, he
            takes but one third of hers, and though we pretend to enfore our criminal statutes
            against her equally with man, yet I believe I will be safe in saying that five men will
            be convicted to one woman upon the same evidence. I was at the Southern Prison a few
            weeks ago and a case was pointed to ont me there, where woman was guilty of murder
            jointly with her husband; the husband was hanged and the woman sent to States Prison.
            Now I am not complaining about these things, they are just as they ought to be, and just
            as they always will be while woman remains the same modest, gentle, dependent creature,
            she now is. Yes, sir, just as long as woman trusts her protection in the hands of man,
            just so long will the sympathies of man go out after her, in her delinquencies under our
            laws. I wish to see woman attain the greatest prosperity in life. I wish to see her
            labor remunerated, but this can not be reached by legislation or votes.
          I wish to see her placed in possession of every means of doing good; but I do not wish
            to see her enfranchised, not because I love woman less but because I love her more than
            those favoring it. I do not want her to vote because I would not have her less woman
            than she is, because I would not have her less an angel than she is, because I would not
            have the veil of her modesty withdrawn, because I would not have the pillars of society
            undermined. And when I reeord my vote in opposition to these resolutions I wish my
            action construed as an effort in behalf of society; and the women of the State.
          Mr. BROWN. Mr. President: Before proceeding to make any observations upon this
            resolution I desire to submit an amendment to it. The amendment I submit is that where
            the word "female" twice occurs in this resolution it shall be immediately proceeded by
            the word "white." It will then read "every white female," and when the resolution is so
            amended, I will then say to the Senate whether I will or will not support it. I can say
            now that this resolution meets at my hands with no little favor, but with considerable
            favor because it is a resolution upon the subject of suffrage--one of the greatest and
            most paramount principles of our government--and proceeds, as I understand it, in strict
            accordance with the well established usages and principles of conferring the elective
            franchise in the United States of America. And glad I am to see such able, accomplished
            and learned gentlemen as the Senator from Jasper [Mr. Dwiggins,] and especially such
            partizan politicians as the the Senator from Jasper, supporting a  proposition to confer suffrage which comes down along the
            line of Constitutional conferring of sufferage which has been maintained and supported
            by the Democratic party from the time of the adoption of the Constitution of the United
            States, down to the present day. The fact that women of the State of Indiana, who have
            petitioned this General Assembly to confer upon them the right of the elective franchise
            have been wise and virtuous enough to seek suffrage in a legal and Constitutional way,
            is the reason why I stand upon the floor of the Senate at this time, Mr. President, and
            shall give the application the highest consideration.
          Let us contrast this application with the one that was made and sustained, which gave
            negro suffrage to the colored popnlation of the land. In the Federal Convention which
            prepared the Constitution of the United States, a proposition was made to take the right
            of the elective franchise away from the people of the States and confer it upon
            Congress. That proposition met with some considerable favor. It was debated and argued
            with great ability by the great and good men who composed that Convention, but when
            wisdom and justice came to perform their sacred office, they said the government which
            we propose to establish founded upon the principle that the domestic rights and
            privileges of citizens shall be left for their perfection, regulation and control, to
            the States of the Union, and the ballot box is the law or order to be established by
            which these domestic privileges are to be perfected--the ballot box shall be left with
            the people of the States and Congressional interference shall not be allowed upon that
            subject. And from the adoption of the Constitution of the United States until within the
            last four years, there has been no statesman of ability; there has been no politician of
            sincerity; there has been no patriot in the land, who desired to maintain the unity of
            the States and support the Constitution of the Union upon the fundamental principles
            upon which they were established, who pretends to for one moment doubt the right of
            regulating the elective franchise and confering suffrage as it was left by the
            Constitution unlimited and unconditional with the people of the States of the Union, and
            Congress should not lay its hand upon it. Again, I thank the women of Indiana that they
            have had virtue and wisdom enough, in making their application to have the right of
            sufferage conferred upon them,--that they regarded the ancient landmarks our Fathers
            established and made their application in the constitutional way.
          The Senator who has just taken his seat is one of that class of politicians who
            surrendered himself in an evil hour to assist in striking down the great constitutional
            right belonging to the States that the women of Indiana are now invoking, and taking
            away from the white men of Indiana the ballot boxes our revolutionary sires carved
            out;they have broken them up and made others of different hues and colors. Senators will
            say that is done by a mandatory act, and that being part of the law of the land we
            cannot now disregard it, and the amendment I now propose is unconstitutional, illegal
            and void. Upon that subject I desire to say a single word.
          I say, Mr. President, upon the floor of the Senate, that in my judgment the XVth
            Article as an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, is no part of the
            Constitution of the United States and ought not to be so regarded, and I believe
            whenever the question is presented to an intelligent tribunal that will decide the law,
            it will so say. And I hope to live to see that bright morning when the abolition party
            which have been hugging Dina and Sambo to their bosoms dear, will have to hug them
            without the aid of the Constitutional amendment, and when that time comes the purview
            will not be so sweet nor the embrace so long. Why do I say it is no part of the
            Constitution? For this reason: State's sovereignty commenced first in the establishment
            of the government;--State organization had existence first--the Federal organization
            came afterwards; and the Federal Government of these States cannot exercise one single
            right one single power that has not been expressly conferred upon Federal authority and
            written in the Constitution of the United States. The Federal Government is a government
            of special, delegated and limited authority and it cannot exercise one single right
            except those which are plainly written in the Constitution and ratified by the people of
            the United States by their several State organizations.
          The next question that comes up is: In making the Constitution of the United States did
            they surrender the right of suffrage? No Senator will say they did. If they did not
            surrender the right to confer suffrage, to regulate and control it, to Congress, they
            reserved it for the States, and if it was a right reserved, it was a right reserved for
            all time to come; and there is no power to take that right away except by dissolving the
            Constitution of the United States and making a new Constitution, and submitting it to
            the States, as the original was done, and having it ratified. But gentle-say the power
            of amendment has been employed and the Constitution is amended. What is the power of
            amendment? You cannot amend a substantive proposition by adding something to that
            proposition that is at war with it and not akin to it. Certainly not; and when the power
            of amendment is spoken of in the Constitution of the United States it does not mean that
            the Constitution can be amended by three-fourths of the States so as to take away from
            the other one-fourth rights reserved to all the 
            people of the States, but it simply means that when you come to put a provision of the
            Constitution into practical operation and that provision of the Constitution fails to
            give the Federal Government full power and authority successfully to accomplish the
            purposes and objects which the Constitution says it may, the Constitution may be amended
            so that the Federal Government may have ample power to carry into successful operation
            these privileges delegated. But the power of amendment does not lie in the States, nor
            three-fourths of the States, either by legislating or a convention to take away a single
            right from a single State, that in the formation of the Constitution was reserved to the
            States. Therefore I say all this talk about this constitutional amendment being a valid
            part of the Constitution of the United States, is inconsistent with reason and repugnant
            to common sense, and when the passion of the hour has passed and reason comes to perform
            her office, this party which took Sambo and Suky and other pickaninnies to their bosom
            dear can march out
          Mr. STEELE (interrupting.) Is the XVth amendment any part of the constitution of the
            United States?
          Mr. BROWN. The XVth amendment, sir, does not confer suffrage. The Senator does not
            pretend to say that it does; no person pretends to say that it does. The XVth amendment
            simply confers United States citizenship, and nothing more, and the party to which you
            belong have argued from the commencement of the agitation of the question of sufferage,
            that citizenship does not carry with it the right to vote and so do I say. If being a
            citizen of the United States or of the State of Indiana, carries with it the right to
            vote, there is not a lady under the sound of my voice not entitled to that right to-day,
            because they are as much citizens as you or I.
          Now I desire to say a word or two on the subject of female suffrage and I am done. I am
            not so well acquainted, nor so familiar with the ladies of the State as the Senator from
            Vanderburgh, [Dr. Morgan,] nor can I speak with such certainty as the Senator over the
            way [Mr. Dwiggins,] but, sir, I desire to do right, not stopping to enquire whether they
            desire it or not. If it is right for the ladies of Indiana to vote that right ought to
            be conferred without waiting for them to lie like menial slaves at the feet of their
            masters, and petition for it. I lay it down as a truism that the peace and happiness of
            the dominant race in Indiana, which is the white race, can be the better servedcan be
            the better promoted that their objects and interests can be better and more successfully
            carried into execution and operation, if left entirely free from any other class of
            races, in the enactment of public laws and in the regulation of their customs; and if
            that be so, the law of self defense warrants them in excluding other races from a
            participation in the law-making power of the State. I am afraid I will argue myself into
            support of this resolution unless I quit. I renew the amendment I offered[see page
            292one third from top of second column.
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        Gifts to Presidents and Presidential Candidates--Debate in
          Continuation.
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            THURSDAY, February 16, 1871.
          
          [Afternoon Session.]
          The SPEAKER pro tem, announced the special order for this hour viz:
            the consideration of Mr. Speaker Mack's Joint Resolution [H. B. 14,] as follows:
          
            
              
                RESOLVED, By the General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
                  that our Senators and Representatives in Congress be, and they are hereby
                  requested, to use their influence to procure the passage of a law at the earliest
                  practicable period, to effect the following: That any candidate for President of
                  the United States, who shall after his nomination, and before his election or if
                  elected before his inauguration, receive from any person not a relative, any
                  moneys, bonds, or other property, exceeding in value one hundred dollars, shall be
                  ineligible to the office of President. And, if any President after his
                  inauguration, shall receive any such present, he shall be deemed guilty of a high
                  misdemeanor, subjecting him to impeachment.
                RESOLVED, That the Governor is requested to send a copy of the
                  foregoing resolution to our Senators and Representatives in Congress.The question
                  being, shall the joint resolution pass?
              
            
          
          Mr. Speaker MACK (Mr. McDonald in the Chair) said: Mr. Speaker, when my honorable
            colleague (Mr. Donham) and myself were candidates for seats in this body, we promised
            our constituents that, if elected, we would present and support these joint reolutions.
            At his request, and with the permission of the House, I will briefly present our reasons
            for their adoption.
          I regret that a State of affairs exists rendering action upon this subject necessary. I
            would that this cup could have passed by us, our children, and our children's children,
            but the vast accumulation of wealth now in the hands of men who have shown a disposition
            to use it for the base purpose of controlling high official action and patronage, has
            produced in the minds of shinking men, of all parties, a well founded alarm, and thereby
            influencing them to demand that the nefarious practice of bestowing princely gifts upon
            Presidents aud Presidential candidates should be suppressed by the strong arm of the
            penal law.
          The power and patronage of the President have become so great that no avenue to
            corruption should be left unguarded. He appoints the heads of Departments, Foreign
            Ministers Governors and officers of Territories, Judges and District Attorneys, which
            together with the vast innumerable host of Postmasters, Collectors and Assessors, gives
            him a power, directly, and indirectly, which enables him to lay his Briarean hands on
            every community, and to bless or curse it at his will.
          The first instance of a President having been charged with receiving presents from
            parties who expected official favors in return, was that of Mr. Van Buren. The matter
            was fully discussed in the great canvass of 1840, and was one of the causes that
            contributed to send him to that political bourne from which he never returned. From that
            time up to 1864, no President or candidate for President was charged with gift taking.
            In that year when it became apparent that General McClellan would be the candidate
            agaist Mr. Lincoln, a number of men in the East, possessed of large wealth, under the
            specious pretense of friendship and admiration for his military services, made him large
            presents of money and property. Subsequent events have proven that these presents were
            made in the vain hope that the fortune of the time might make him President, when they
            would in return receive special favors at his hands.
          No one ever thought of reaching Mr. Lincoln by any such means. Whatever may  have been the faults of this, the greatest man of the last
            decade, no one ever justly charged him with receiving improper presents or of using his
            power and patronage to advance the interests of the moneyed men of the country. He
            looked to the peopleto the poor and downtrodden of the land; and coming time will accord
            him more merit for his acts than if he had received as presents, all the untold millions
            of the Astors, Stewarts, Jay Goulds, Corbins, Hoars and Bories combided.
          When Mr. Johnson became President an effort was made to reach him by gifts, and bind
            him by golden chains to the interests of designing Shylocks. He had been in office but a
            few days until the admiration for his public services, integrity and patriotism welled
            up in the bosoms of certain New Yorkers to such an extent as to manifest itself by their
            purchasing a splended turnout--horses carriage and harness--and tendering it as as a
            gift to His Excellency. You all recollect his answer; and whether you endorsed his
            administration or not--whether you desired his impeachment or not--you are proud of that
            answer as part of the history of the times. He said in substance, that he thanked them
            for their kindness, but held it incompatible with his high office to receive any such
            costly presents.
          The gift-makers then turned their attention to General Grant. His great success as the
            leader of the Union armies, and his worldwide reputation as a military man, indicated
            that at no distant day presidential honors would be added to his name. To make sure of
            his favors when that day should arrive, a class of wealthy men in the Eastern cities
            deluged him with presents.
          In 1868 he received the nomination for the Presidency, when a second deluge came,
            continuing until all the principal offices were filled under his administration, and
            abating then, not because of any refusal on his part to receive them, but because the
            principal offices being filled, he was left without the means to repay those who might
            bestow upon him money, bonds, houses, libraries, guns, dogs, jewels, gold and silver
            plate, and "Cottages by the Sea."
          It is said, but for the truth of the report I can not vouch, that shortly after the
            inauguration, an admiring patriot from Northern Illinois, who desired the appointment of
            postmaster or whisky gauger, or Governor of Idaho, sent as a present to the President,
            by express, "C. O. D.," a nice pointer dog. The dog died on the way and was delivered at
            the White House with nine dollars charges. General Dent, acting for his brother-in-law,
            declined the present, and this is the only one that has been refused.
          After his inauguration the men who gave those presents came with blushless cheek, and
            demanded and received the first places of honor, trust, and profit within his gift.
          Let us see how these things would appear nearer at home. So sensitive are we upon this
            point, that a bill has been introduced into this House and met with great favor, one of
            the provisions of which makes it highly penal for the Governor to receive a
            complimentary pass from a railroad. Suppose that the canal bondholders, of whom, and of
            whose desire to influence Legislatures we have heard so much, should have before the
            meeting of this body, under the specious pretense of admiration for his public services
            and private worth, presented to the Governor the Hasselman mansion on North Meridian
            st., and an envelope containing fifty thousand dollars, in five-twenty bonds. I know he
            would not have received them. I am proud to think that if such offers had been made, he
            would with the impulse of an honest man, have exclaimed, as did the Savior of men when
            tempted on the mountain: "Get thee hence, Satan." But if he had received and retained
            them, you would, with old Bishop Latimer, who, more than three centuries ago, when
            speaking on this subject, said: "Call them not presents, rewards or gifts, leave off
            coloring--call them by their Christian names--call them bribes." You would have called
            them bribes, and there is not a man on this floor, and not an honest man within the
            bounds of this great State, who would not feel his self-respect lessoned to shake the
            corrupted hand of such a Governor.
          Large presents were given by Eastern men to General Sherman, and by him received. A
            junta of politicians in a Western city, seeing that Eastern capitalists had thrown a
            golden charm around Grant and Sherman, turned to the military firmament to see if they
            could not select some particular star whom they could propitiate as the future master of
            their destinies. At a glance they agreed upon George H. Thomas. They saw in him a man of
            consummate ability and unimpeachable integrity. A General who never made a mistake, and
            one who, to count his victories, they had but to name his fields.
          I imagined they reasoned thus: He has no yet reached the meridian of life; he has but
            little property; he has looked with longing eyes at the vast treasures that have been
            bestowed upon Grant; he will one day be President. Let us then cast our bread upon the
            waters, to be gathered after a few days, by giving him a present of a hundred thousand
            dollars. They accordingly raised the amount and tendered it to him. Mark his answer: "I
            am poor, your offer is a tempting one, but while I hold my office in the army of the
            United States, it is against my idea of propriety to receive any such present." Never
            did tempters receive a more withering rebuke.-- 
            This great and good man has passed from earth.
          
            " He has fought his last battle; No sound can awake him to
              glory again."
          
          But the future historian, who shall embalm him with immortality, after speaking of his
            great patience, valor, military genius and success; of his purity of life, and devoted
            unselfish patriotism, will record that, after the storm of war had passed, and venality
            had settled down upon the minds of men, George H. Thomas stood forth the moral hero who
            resisted the temptations and seductions of the gift-makers, which last act will shine
            among his other illustrious deeds, as the "Koh-i-noor" among the crown jewels of
            England's Queen. And deep down in the "holy of holies" of the heart, where dwells the
            sacred love of wife and children, and sisters, and dear old mother, there, there, will
            ever be a tablet sacred to the memory of George H. Thomas.
          To such an extent has the present Executive been engaged in gift-taking and
            reciprocating the favor of official patronage, that not only have foreign governments,
            through their journals, alluded to it in terms of derision, but even the little children
            of the country ridicule the practice.
          A distinguished gentleman of Terre Haute informed me that one evening last summer, when
            he was at the house of a prominent Republican of the city, he witnessed a number of
            little children, from seven to twelve years of age, amusing themselves by playing
            "charades." You are familiar with the mode of playing. The company divides, a few go out
            of the room, select a word, return, and act it out by syllables, so those in the room
            may guess it. The word "emigrant" was selected. Well, after they had made out "em" and
            "i," a syllable was left which chanced to be the name of the President. A little girl
            entered, and after bowing to a little boy seated in the room, and handing him a package,
            says; "Here is a present worth ten thousand dollars; don't open it." Then came a little
            boy who says: "We have just bought for you a very nice house." Then came a third, not
            more than eight years old, leading a big Newfoundland dog, almost as tall as himself,
            and says: "I have brought you a nice pup, and I want to be Postmaster." At this a dozen
            voices shouted, "Grant," "Grant," "Grant," "Emigrant."
          Such things may at first seem trivial, but, were I President, I had rather the London
            Times, "The Great Thunderer," should abuse me in its columns, or the most peerless
            Senator should rise in his place in the Capitol and denounce me, than for the little
            innocent unsophisticated boys and girls to caricature my reproachful conduct in their
            childish sports.
          It may be asked why the resolutions permit gifts to the amount of one hundred dollars.
            I answer it is to leave room for those little souvenirs and remembrances which are the
            legimate fruits of pure friendship, and "blesses both him that gives and him that
            receives."
          In every country and under every civilization the practice of high officials receiving
            costly presents, from parties who expect to receive official favors in return, has been
            considered as disreputable, and not unfrequently punished, as the highest of crimes.
            When Moses, amid the thunders of Sinai, received from the lips of Jehovah the immortal
            Decalogue, it was at the same time given to him as Divine law, and announced for the
            government of officers, "Thou shalt take no gift, for a gift blindeth the wise, and
            perverteth the words of the righteous."
          Cambyses, a king of Persia, and son of the great Cyrus, on learning that one of his
            chief officers of state had been receiving presents, and that he had granted favors in
            return, inflicted upon him a summary punishment as a terror to his successors. He had
            him quickly flayed and the skin nailed on the chair in which he had sat, and compelled
            his successors in office to sit upon the skin.
          Demosthenes, the greatest of Grecian orators, received from Herpalus a golden cup
            filled with talents, and was for the act banished in disgrace from the shores of his
            native land.
          The Senators who tried Verres received munificent presents, and the infamy of the act
            still clings to them, and will cling to them "like memory damned."
          Cassius is charged with having given offices in return for gold and property received
            as presents, and after the lapse of nineteen centuries his briberies have left a deeper
            and blacker stain on his name than those acts of conspiracy and murder in which he acted
            a leading part.
          In more modern times, when Beaumarchais had an important measure pending before the
            Assembly of France, he bestowed upon the wife of Goezman, who was a high official, a
            present of a large sum of money. And though it was unheeded by Goezman and the money
            refunded, public sentiment was so outraged by the act that Goezman was driven from
            office in disgrace, and his lovely wife compelled to give up her home, her husband, her
            little children--to bid farewell to the bright world and starry skies, and spend the
            remainder of her life in the lonely seclusion of a convent.
          The high position or estimation in which men have been held has never protected them in
            their gift-takings.
          At this time of year, 1621, Sir Francis  Bacon sat
            upon the "wool sack" of England--the great essayist, poet, philosopher, stateman, and
            jurist. Pope said of him: "He was the greatest and wisest of mankind." Whately said his
            philosophy has moulded the minds of men who for more than two hundred years have
            controlled the world, Macauley, speaking of Bacon and Shakespeare, said: "These two
            incomparable men--the prince of philoso-pheres and the prince of poets--have marked an
            era in literature, more conspicuous than Pericles, Augustus, or Leo." And modern
            scholars of great research are now claiming that Bacon was the sole, supreme author of
            the transcendent works of this ''prince of poets," All writers, cotemporary and
            subsequent, agree that at the time to which I refer he had approached nearer the giddy
            summit of intellectual greatness than any man that has lived in any country or in any
            age. While occupying this exalted position the fact became known that he had been
            receiving large presents from men who expected official favors in return; and although
            Mr. Montague, his biographer, claims he was not influenced corruptly by these presents,
            still the English people were so indignant at his conduct that they snatched the ermine
            from his shoulders, and he was almost immediately impeached by the House of Commons, was
            tried, convicted and sentenced by the House of Lords to pay a fine of fifty thousand
            pounds and be imprisoned during the pleasure of the King, and on the 21st of June, 1621,
            he was led a prisoner, to the Tower, and heard the harsh jar of the prison door close
            upon him and all his hopes.
          The punishment was a severe one, and the chapter is a sad commentary on human
            greatness; still the opinion of the civilized world for two and a half centuries, has
            fully approved and confirmed the action of the English people.
          Shall it be said of us that we are retrograding in morals or in the desire to preserve
            official purity?
          This House has made its record on the subject. One day last week there came from the
            Senate a bill making it a crime for any member of the Legislature or other officer to
            receive a bribe.
          The distinquished member from Knox [Mr. Cauthorn] moved to take the bill up out of its
            order, suspend the rules and pass it. The House readily consented and when the members
            had voted the Speaker announced the vote an unanimous aye, which was received wtth marks
            of applause.
          Shall we shrink from asking others to act as we have acted toward ourselves? Soon there
            will be new candidates for President, new officers to appoint, and unless something is
            done to prevent it, a new deluge of presents poured upon the candidates and President
            elect.
          Every dictate of duty, honor and national safety demands the immediate suppression of
            the deleterious practice. If permitted to continue, he is indeed blind who will not see
            that, at no distant day it will affect the whole body politic, and the country will be
            cursed with gift taking by every officer, State and National. As well might we expect,
            when the venomous poison of the mad dog's tooth has reached our blood, to escape the
            dread ruin that must follow, as for the chief magistrate to convert his office into a
            gift exchange and the other departments of Government to remain uncontaminated.
          The next effort of these gift makers will be directed to the Judiciary. The men who
            will purchase an office with a present, from the President, will not hesitate to buy a
            decision from a Judge. And it the President, who appoints a Judge, may receive a reward
            therefor in money or lands, the Judge may deliver an opinion and receive a present for
            it.
          I want no such flood-gate of corruption sanctioned and opened upon our Judiciary.
            Through a long line of near a hundred years, whether appointed by executives, chosen by
            Legislatures, or elected by the people, they have shown a moral courage of which no
            other department can boast, and have retained their integrity and purity free from venal
            taint aud spotless as a robe of righteousness.
          In the darkest hour of our country's misfortunes, when the writ of habeas corpus had
            been suspended, when in the States not in rebellion loathsome dungeons and bastiles were
            filled with prisoners arrested without authority and detained without law; when
            subservient, soulless military tribunals organized to convict shook their naked swords
            in the face of Justice, and set at defiance Constitutions, laws, and ordinances; when
            bad men, influenced by malignant passions, and urged on by wicked counsellors, for
            partizan and ignoble ends, sought to make the military superior to the civil power, the
            patient and hopeful men never despaired of the Judiciary, and as the Mussulman, in the
            hour of calamity and danger turns to his sacred city for consolation, so the people
            turned to the Judiciary and the Courts as their "Mecca of Hope." And they looked not in
            vain for as soon as the storm of war had passed our bold, pure, intelligent and
            patriotic Judiciary, by their just decrees, broke down the dungeon doors, and with the
            two-edged sword of justice cleaved in twain the fetters which military despotism had
            riveted upon the limbs of freemen.
          I can conceive of no calamity so appaling as the corruption of such men as these.
            Sooner than this should come to pass, let the worst of the plagues of Pharaoh fall upon
            us; let the angel of death, ere to-morrow's sunrise, spread his wing on the blast, and
            finding no sprinkled threshold, leave the first-born a corpse in every household.

          

          If the President's salary is not enough for his support without presents, let it be
            increased; but let it be paid out of the common treasury.
          Uuless I misjudge your feelings, you all honestly and zealously believe the spirit of
            these resolutions to be founded on right and justice. And as our representatives at
            Washington have closed their ears to this matter, let us then send them a request from
            this House, backed by an unbroken aye, urging them to action.
          You may say, I do not like to support these resolutions because they may reflect upon
            General Grant, or General Sherman, or Gen-Gen. McClellan. These resolutions look only to
            the future, and every honest impulse of your bosoms is at this moment struggling to
            convince you. that you should not stop in the plain pathway of duty, for fear of hurting
            the feelings of any man or class of men. Brutus was called the noblest of Romans, and
            when the exigencies of his country demanded the sacrifice he went boldly to the Capitol
            and plunged his dagger into the heart of his greatest and best friend and when the
            populace demanded why he slew his friend, with bleeding heart and streaming eyes he
            exclaimed: "It was not because I loved Caesar less, but that I loved Rome more."
          Are there any members of this body who are so in love with Presidential gift-taking
            that they can not support these resolutions? If so when the roll is called, let them
            answer "no," and let the records of this House show there were in the session of 1871
            members who their duty knew, and knowing, dared not maintain it.
          Mr. CALKINS, of Porter, proposed to amend--see page 306--middle of first column.
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Burson and Kline Contested Election Case--Debate in
          Continuation.
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            TUESDAY, February 21,1871.
          
          
            [IN CONTINUATION PAGE 334 BOTTOM OF
                THE FIRST COLUMN, AND PAGES 367 TO 376.]
          
          
            [Morning Session.]
          
          Mr. BROWN. Mr. President: In accordance with the arrangment made last Saturday, a
            majority of the Select Committee appointed by the Senate to investigate the charges of
            bribery and corruption against John W. Burson have directed me to present some reasons
            why that majority report should be concurred in. Whenthis case was first presented
            against Mr. Burson it aroused in me, sir, all of my sympathies in his favor; and during
            the investigation my sincere desire was that when the proof was all submitted and the
            respective counsel had closed the case, that the report would establish Mr. Bursons
            innocence. And it is now with feelings of deepvery deep mortification that I am
            compelled to say to the Senate that my hopes have not been realized.
          
          To charge a man with bribery and corruption is no little thing. It is a matter of the
            highest importance. To deprive a man who has been returned as a member of the Senate
            from the privilege of occupying a seat upon the floor of this Senate is certainly a verv
            grave and important thing especially when that deprivation comes because of his being
            guilty of bribery and corruption in the procuring of his election. And before a man
            should be deprived of a seat in the Senate upon so grave and serious a charge the Senate
            should consider the case with great patience, fairness and impartiality; and the Senate
            should pronounce no such decision unless fully satisfied that a clear case is made. And
            my earnest hope and desire is that no judgment no order shall be pronounced by this
            Senate depriving the applicant from a seat in it, unless every Senator is firmly
            convinced that this record shows the applicant to have been guilty of procuring his
            election, or at last attempting to procure his election by bribery and corruption. And
            although the rule, which throughout the country prevails in criminal cases that the
            defendant must be found guilty beyond a reasonable doubt may not apply in this case, I
            do sincerely hope, Mr. President, that the applicant shall have the benefit of the
            doubt, and that no Senator will give his vote against him unless his mind is free and
            clear from doubt that Mr. Burson is guilty of having sought to procure a seat in the
            Senate by bribery and corruption.
          The charges which are the foundation of this inquiry are in these words which I ask; my
            friend [Mr. Rosebrugh] the Senator from Switzerland to read: [Mr. Rosebrugh reads;--see
            page 18 of this book.]
          The crime of bribery is not a new one;--It is known to the common law:--it has existed
            for centuries, and the penalties imposed upon persons who have committed that crime,
            under the common law are indeed severe. By the common law a bribe is a gift or a promise
            as an inducement for some illegal act: or some illegal emolument as a consideration for
            prefering one person above another in the performance of a legal act. Bribery, by the
            commom law, is defind to be the receiving or offering any undue reward by or to any
            person whose ordinary professional business relates to the administration of public
            justice in order to influence his behavior in office and incline him to act contrary to
            duty his and the known rules of honesty and integrity--the offense of giving, promising
            or receiving money to procure the votes or influence voters at an election for  a public office. The offence of the giver and of the
            receiver is the same. For the sake of distinction the former--namely; the briber might
            and may properly be denominated "active bribery;" while the latter namely: the person or
            individnal bribed might be very properly termed and called te passive bribery."
          Bribery at elections for members of Parliament has always been a crime at common law
            and punishable by indictment or information. It still remains so in England; and to
            constitute the offense it is not necessary that the person bribed should in fact vote as
            solicited to do, or even have the right to vote at all. Both are entirely immaterial. To
            offer a bribe has been held to be a criminal offense, upon which the offender might be
            indicted and convicted. This is the common law definition of the crime of bribery, and
            according to it, it is not necessary that the bribe should be accepted by the party to
            whom it is offered in order to complete the crime upon the part of the party offering
            the bribe, nor is it necessary that the party to whom the bribe is given or offered
            should perform what he agreed to do. And even if he had no ability to perform it it is
            still bribery upon the part of him who offers the bribe.
          But in Indiana, we are not left alone to the common law for a definition of the crime
            of bribery. Our State Constitution provides that "every person shall be disqualified
            from holding office during the term for which he may have been elected, who shall have
            given or offered a bribe, threat, or reward to procure his election." This
            constitutional provision declares that every person elected to an office who shall have
            either given a bribe or offered to give a bribe as a means for the procuring of the
            office to which he hopes to be elected, by his own individual act deprives himself from
            holding it. Our State statutes defines the offense of bribery, where it applies to
            bribing electors, in the following language: [Mr. B. read sec. 61 of the misdemeanor act
            of June 14, 1852, II G. & H. pp. 473,474.] The language of our statutes upon the
            subject of bribing jurors is: [Mr. B. reads sec. 17 same act, p. 463, same book.] The
            39th section of the act defining felonies and prescribing punishment therefor, approved
            June 10,1852, defines the crime of bribery in these words: [Mr. B. reads--see II G.
            & H. page 450.]
          Thus it is by the Constitution and laws of the State of Indiana, as well as by the
            common law, that the crime of bribery is recognized as being completed so far as the
            giver or offerer is concerned the very moment he makes the offer to bribe the other
            party. The obvious meaning of the Constitution and laws of Indiana, as well as the
            obvious meaning of the common law, upon the subject of bribing is this: That the
            candidate for a public officeshould so conduct himself during his candidacy that when,
            after the people had elected him to the office and he was inducted into it, he should be
            perfectly free, clean and unspotted from any fraud or corruption in the procurment of
            it. The public officers of the country when they come into public office should, at
            least so far as the means they employ to secure the office are concrened, use only those
            honest and honorable means that public law, common honesty, fair dealing and well
            regulated society permits in all civilized ages and races.
          The power, right and jurisdiction of determining whether a person elected to the State
            Senate has rendered himself ineligible or disqualified himself from holding a seat in
            the Senate because of bribery on his part is conferred by express constitutional
            provision exclusively upon the Senate. The language of the Constitution is: "Each House
            when assmbled shall choose its own officers (the President of the Senate excepted,)
            judge the elections, qualifications and returns of its own members, determine its rules
            of proceedings and sit upon its own adjournment." Thus it is that this constitutional
            provision of our State makes the Senate the tribunal, with exclusive original
            jurisdiction to determine the question whether a person seeking to have the powers and
            privileges of a Senator conferred upon him, has by his own voluntary act rendered
            himself ineligible to hold a seat in the Senate. I say this constitutional provision has
            vested this tribunal with exclusive jurisdiction to try and determine that question. The
            language of the constitutional provision is, "judge the elections, qualifications and
            returns of its own members." The first proposition is to judge of the election; we all
            know what that means: that gives the Senate the power to inquire into the manner of the
            election,--the form of it,--whether it was held pursuant to public law or not,--whether
            it was tainted with illegality or not. The next is qualification; this word means that
            the Senate is to iiave exclusive power to examine into the personal character and
            personal conduct and condition of the party who makes an appearance at the bar of the
            Senate with a certificate of election, praying the Senate to admit him. For instance,
            under the word "qualification" the Senate has the right to inquire whether the party has
            lived in the country long enough; whether he has attained the requisite age, or whether
            or not he has disqualified himself by offering or giving, or by both offering and giving
            bribes to procure his election.
          The Senate has absolute control of the case with full power to acquit or convict. But
            this power must be cautiously and judiciously exercised. Mr. Burson ought not to be
            convicted unless according to the well known and clearly established rules and
            principles of law  applicable to cases of persons
            accused of the crime, he is by the evidence shown to be guilty. He is presumed to be
            innocent until the contrary is proven; he cannot be rightfully convicted unless his
            guilt is clearly established; and I sincerely hope every Senator will keep this in view
            until this important case is finally disposed of.
          I desire now to invite the attention of the Senate to some of the evidence given in the
            case, upon which the majority of the committee rely for a justification and defense of
            its conduct in reporting to the Senate that Mr. Burson by his own voluntary act has
            disqualified himself from holding a place in the Senate. Much has been submitted to the
            committee which is wholly irrelavent and unimportant and has nothing whatever to do with
            the case. Many witnesses have been examined who absolutely know nothing about the case.
            But it is not strange that it is so. Persons who accept bribes, or persons who permit
            offers of bribes to be made to them are generally that class of persons that are not
            ready or willing to expose the transaction and in this case the committee as well as the
            counsel labored under the disadvantage of being baffled by witnesses and I think it is
            fair to presume, Mr. President, they knew much more of the transaction than they were
            pleased to tell. The first witness I desire to call the attention of the Senate to is
            James V. Blount. This man Mr. Blunt or Blount is a resident of the city of Muncie, is a
            Shoemaker by trade and a neighbor of Mr. Burson, and well known to Mr. Burson. Although
            previous to the late election in Delaware county their relations had not been very
            intimate, Mr. Blount says in answer to this question: "If he made any present to you
            during his candidacy state what it was, how it was presented and when?" That it was "not
            during the time he was running with Mr. Kline. He made us a little present when Mr.
            Kline was not running." I read from page 32 of the printed testimony. But that the
            Senate may be informed with reference to the time of making this present it is proper
            for me to state when Mr. Kline became a candidate and when Mr. Burson became a
            candidate. Mr. Burson I think was nominated on the 4th day of June, by means of a
            primary election, for the office of State Senator. Shortly after his nomination a
            Democrat was put in field, or at least, it was talked of putting a Democrat in the field
            to contest the claims for Senator with Mr. Burson, but on account of Delaware county
            being so hopelessly Republican or at least presumed to be, as far as the election of a
            Democrat is concerned, it was thought perhaps better to make no Democratic contest; and
            some three or four weeks before the final election in October came around,Mr.Kline, also
            a Republican, was placed in the field as a contestant against Mr. Burson; and this
            little present now that Mr. Burson made Mr. Blount was made during the interval of time
            between Mr. Burson's nomination on the 4th of Jnne and Mr. Kline's coming into the
            contest some three or six weeks prior to the election in October. The exact time when
            this little present was made was the 2d day of September. Mr. Blount further says,
            stating what this little present was:
          A. In the first place, we took out an insurance policy in this Franklin company. Mr.
            Bell, there, was helping run that thing, and we were about to let the thing go by the
            board. I did not feel like paying it. I believe Mr. Kilgore told me not to pay it. We
            gave our notes for that. Then they came up and proposed to us to put it in a new note,
            and said if we would give a new note Mr. Burson would take it and wait on us. I told
            them I would do it. They said, would I have it at thirty or sixty days. I told them
            sixty days would give us a little more time. When it became due we paid it.
          Q. After the payment of that note, what do you know of Mr. Burson's continuing the
            policies and paying that note?
          A. I had been sick nearly all summer, and was going to let the policies go, and Mr.
            Burson took it on himself and paid it, and fetched it to the shop and left it. I believe
            he told my partner he would make us a present of that because I was sick.
          Q. After he presented that to you, what talk had you with Mr. Burson about that?
          A. Never any at all. I never mentioned it to him during the time he ran.
          Q. Have you talked with him about it since?
          A. Yes, I have had a little talk with him since.
          Q. When was it?
          A. I can not say just when.
          Q. Were it since you were subpoenaed?
          A. No, I have not talked with him since I was subpoenaed.
          Q. What time was it that he left these policies at your shop, or that you got word of
            it?
          A. September 2d I think it was, I was not at the shop at the time, and was not there
            for a week?
          Q. What makes you think it was on September the 2d?
          A. That is the time this paper was due.
          Q. How much was your note or receipt?
          A. Fifteen dollars and sixty-eight cents.
          I desire in connection with this transaction to take the testimony of Walter Everett,
            the partner of Mr. Blount in carrying on the Shoe-making business:
          Q. For whom did you vote for Senator in that district?
          Q. If any one offered you any reward for so doing, directly or indirectly, please state
            who it was?
          A. I never got any reward, directly, I believe. I got a policy in this Life Insurance
            Company, of Franklin.
          The fact that he never got a reward directly raises a strong inference that he got one
            indirectly. The next question is:
          Q. What was the amount of that policy?
          A. I disremember; I think it was fourteen or fifteen dollars.
          Q. That was the amount of the premium?
          A. Yes.
          Q. What was the amount of the policy?
          A. One thousand dollars.
          Q. Who was in control of that Life Insurance Company.
          A. I do not remember now.
          Q. State if you had given a note for the premium?
          A. In the first place I did, and John W. Burson 
            paid the note and we gave our notes payable in bank for the amount.
          Q. What became of that second note, payable in bank, that you gave?
          A. I did not give a second note. He came up to the shop and inquired of me where James
            Blount was; I told him he had gone home sick. Said he, "Walt., are you not going to take
            out your policy for another year?" Said I, "I do not know. It is very hard times, and we
            concluded we would let it go by the board," Said he, "I never have done anything for you
            boys; you are industrious and trying to get along, and I will make you a present of this
            policy, and would like you to keep it up." He said it was a good thing; and I remarked,
            that if I dropped off it would be a good thing for my family.
          Q. When was that?
          A. That was in the latter part of August.
          Q. Did Mr. Burson pay off that note?
          A. He gave me that policy--made me a present of it.
          Q. How much was due on it at that time from you to the company?
          A. Fifteen dollars, I think.
          Afterwards the question is asked him:
          Q. When you alluded to getting anything indirectly you allude to this policy of
            Insurance?
          A. What I got indirectly was that policy.
          The question is what did he get indirectly for voting for Mr. Burson, and the answer is
            that he got a policy; and if he got a policy indirctly for voting for Mr. Burson who can
            say with any sincere regard for the maintainance of law that Mr. Burson is not guity of
            bribery and corruption as he stands charged at the bar of this Senate. Hs says in answer
            to the next question, "What makes you think you got that indirectly for voting for Mr.
            Burson?" this: "The way I understand it is that indirectly I got it in this way--I can
            hardly explain it." Of course not; surely not. A man that reaches out his leprous hand
            and accepts a bribe from a venal and corrupt briber, when brought to the bar of public
            justice to answer for the transaction can hardly explain it. Another question is "Did
            you ever get anything indirectly for voting for Mr. Burson?" "Nothing but the policy" is
            the witness' answer. "Nothing but the policy." The converse of that is that he got the
            policy indirectly for voting for John W. Burson.
          I have heard it said by some Senators that this case must be tried according to the
            rules and established principles of public law for the trial and investigation of cases
            before a jury of the country. So be it. Can it be said that there could be called into a
            jury box in any county in the good State of Indiana twelve honest, upright, intelligent
            men that would fail to say a man is guilty upon a charge of this kind, when an
            unimpeached witnesses has testified that a thousand dollar policy was indirectly given
            for the purpose of securing a vote? But it is said that this policy was given by Mr
            Burson as an act of charity. The testimony in the case shows that he had not been a
            patron of these enterprising shoemakers before that time:--that their association had
            not been very close--perhaps friendly--the witness' own language is that he had done
            nothing for them heretofore. Then he proposed to do a thing that would be a good thing
            for them in case they hould drop off. All at once his generosity becomes unbounded; his
            liberality becomes unexampled. Once, but during a fierce and heated contest in which the
            opposition was making inroads upon him he opens up his liberality, unchains his soul,and
            hands over to these two shoemakers a $1,000 policy each, which no doubt was for the
            protection of their families in case they should fall in his sanguinary conflict.
            Senators, who can say that John W. Burson appears at the bar of this Senate with hands
            and character clean of improper conduct in procuring or attempting to procure a seat
            upon the floor of the Indiana Senate?
          The next witness I desire to invite attention to is Henry Vineyard--page 98 of the
            printed testimony. He is of that class of individuals who, when brought upon the witness
            stand, the triers of the cause must look upon the testimony he gives with some degree of
            caution, if not suspicion and allowance. I shall state Mr. Vineyard's testimony as best
            I can; shall state my conclusion in reference to it, and leave it for the Senate to say
            whether the story he tells is not a probable one and one upon which the Senate should
            rely. His testimony begins in this way:
          Q. Where do you reside?
          A. Madison county, in the State of Indiana.
          Q. What Township?
          A. Anderson Township.
          Q. How long have you resided there?
          A. Ever since I was born.
          Q. Are you acquainted with John W. Burson?
          A. I am.
          Q. How long have you known him?
          A. For some time; I do not know exactly how long.
          Q. When did you know him first?
          A. I cannot state exactly the time; it has been some few months.
          Q. Did you know him before the October election?
          A. I had met the gentleman before that.
          Q. Did you ever have any conversation with him before that?
          Q. Mr. Stillwell, I believe, made me acquainted with him sometime about that time; I do
            not know how long before.
          Q. As much as a week?
          A. Indeed, I cannot tell you.
          Q. Was it before or after the election?
          A. I think it was before; I cannot remember exactly.
          Q. Do you remember having a conversation with Burson on the street, in Anderson, prior
            to the election?
          A, Yes, sir; I met him, and asked him for ten dollars that I was about to pay out for a
            certain thing, and could not make it at that time; and previous to that, Mr. Kline gave
            me fifteen dollars to work for him prior to this election, and wanted me to go to his
            brother and get a horse and buggy to go and distribute the bills. I have them in my
            pocket.
          Q. Let us see those bills?
          A. Here is one of them. [Here the witness produced a paper.]
          Q. You did not go and distribute them?
          A. Because Mr. Kline's brother failed in his agreement to get me the buggy. Mr. Burson
            lent me ten dollars, and I paid it back.

          

          The testimony in this case shows that Mr. Burson of course, let him have ten dollars
            and he says he wanted this ten dollars to pay out for a certain thing. What this thing
            was the committee is left in the dark about, nor can we imagine what it was. He says Mr.
            Burson lent him ten dollars "and I paid it back. " And here I invite the attention of
            the Senate to the time and place and manner in which this remarkable loan of ten dollars
            was paid back.
          Q. When did you pay it back?
          A. A few days ago.
          Bear in mind that this man testified during the present sitting of the Senate. His
            testimony is not three weeks old and this money was borrowed a week before the October
            election. He says he paid it back a few days ago.
          Q. Was it since you were summoned to come here?
          A. I do not know.
          Q. When were you subpoenaed?
          A. I believe I was summoned last Saturday, I believe.
          Q. When did you see Mr. Burson first since you were summoned?
          A. I believe I saw him on the train--not exactly on the train either--but he came off
            the train, and I gave him the money the first opportunity that I had received from him.
            I am a poor man, and can not afford to work for nothing.
          Why did he put that in? What is the reasonable and logical conclusion that an inquiring
            and investigating mind must place upon that. That is connected with the borrowing and
            paying back of the ten dollars, and he says in connection with that, that he can't
            afford to work for nothing. What does it mean? It simply means he got ten dollars from
            John W. Burson,and that he got it to be employed in the election, and that his
            employment in the election could not be had without compensation because of his poverty,
            this transaction stands thus: John W. Burson was in the county of Madison in
            conversation with an ally and confederate of his--Mr. Thomas Stillwell--Henry Vineyard
            is in the neighborhood and he is beckoned to by these two worthies to come to them; he
            comes and ten dollars is given him and nothing said about a loan, but all at once when
            an inquiry and investigation is had into this case, then it is said it was a loan of
            money. No offer to pay it back has been made. Vineyard desires keeping faith with
            creditors and paying back all the obligations he incurred, but it seems he didn't treat
            this as an existing liability. He let the matter go bye until after the process of the
            Senate was served upon him and he was called upon to appear at the bar of the Senate or
            before this committee to answer whether he had not been a subject of bribery in the
            hands of Mr. Burson. Then it was that this ten dollar transaction was viewed in the
            light of a debt. The evidence shows that Mr. Burson was on the train that morning and he
            simply borrows a ten dollar bill, puts it in an envelope, goes down to the depot where
            the train makes but a momentary halt; and is it not singular indeed that John W. Burson
            should step out, reach out the same hand that gave the ten dollars to Vineyard for
            improper use, and receive it back again? Who can say that there was not
            prearrangement--who can say that the confederates and conspirators with Mr. Burson in
            the management of this case did not arrange that this man Vineyard, and with Mr.
            Burson's knowledge and consent--that Burson and Vineyard were to meet on the platform
            that morning and this money received back again in order that the committee might be
            foiled in reference to the transaction?
          I will go a little further with Vineyard's testimony to show you what kind of a man he
            was, and the kind of instruments bribery always employs. The question is:
          Q. Do you mean to say you gave men money to vote for county officers?
          A. There was money furnished me to do that.
          Q. Did you use money in buying votes for county officers?
          A. I believe I did use some money. There was some men that stood there, and said they
            would vote for a dollar or for two dollars.
          Q. When those men said they would vote for a dollar apiece, or for two dollars, did you
            give them the money?
          A. Yes sir.
          Here is a man who testifies upon the witness stand, that part of his avocation in life
            is--that he draws the means of subsistence by corrupting elections and purchasing a
            freeman's will.--Here is a man--if I may so prostitute the word by using it for him--a
            man whose course of conduct is to take the briber's money and employ it for the
            corruption of elections. And surely that is the kind of a man--that is the leprous and
            putrid wretch that Mr. Stillwell and Mr. Burson would be likely to be interested in when
            they desire to accomplish such immoral things.
          Q. I understood you to say you did not use any money in buying votes?
          A. That was for Senator.
          Ah! precisely so. He says he used money in buying votes for county officers but none
            for Senator. But, Mr. President, we must look upon this transaction with some degree of
            allowance. If Mr. Burson paid him money while a candidate, to be used in the election,
            and part of his business was to purchase votes, and he did at that election purchase
            votes for part of the ticket, then I want to know if a fair inference is not that his
            support was given to all of that class that furnished him means to purchase with?
          Q. You did not wish to be understood, then, a while ago, as saying that you did not use
            any money to buy votes at all?
          A. No, sir; I had no reference to Senator.
          Q. Where did you get this money that you bought votes for Mr. McCollough for?  A. From different ones.
          Q. Who are they?
          A. I got money from Mr. Stillwell; it was left with him I presume.
          In connection with Mr. Vineyard I desire to invite the attention of the Senate to the
            testimony of Howell D. Thompson pages 121 and 122. It is always competant to give in
            evidence the declaration of a party when puting into execution a transaction. The party
            for the prosecution have proved a transaction in which Mr. Vineyard was connected, and
            what he said with reference to that transaction is competant evidence. This witness
            says:
          Q. If you saw Mr. Henry Vineyard during the day of the election, state where you saw
            him and what he was doing, and what occurred between you and him?
          A. I saw Mr. Vineyard during that day on the out edge of the pavement, north of the
            northeast corner of the United States Hotel, with a bundle of Democratic tickets in his
            hand, with Mr. Burson's name printed in the tickets. The other names were all Democrats.
            I approached him and asked him what he was doing there.
          [To this evidence, Mr. Burson, by his counsel, Mr. Newcomb, objected. Mr Gordon, in
            behalf of the prosecution, stated that he expected to show that Mr. Vineyard was Mr.
            Burson's agent. On that condition the committee decided the evidence admissable, with
            the proviso that if the further evidence shall not connect Mr. Burson with the matter,
            then this evidence shall be excluded.]
          A. I thought I had a right to control his work to some extent, as he was a man who
            worked for pay, and he was working adversely to my feelings. I had befriended him two or
            three times, and hence the remark I made. I asked him, "What are you doing this for?"
            His answer was that he was appointed to do it; he was a poor man and had to be paid for
            his work. I asked him why it was that he could not take the regular Democratic ticket
            and work for it; why he had that "bogus thing;" and he said he was hired to do it. I
            asked him what he was giving for votes; if he was giving as much as he did in the
            spring. He said he would give or was giving a dollar a vote to vote that ticket.
          Q. On what behalf did he say he was paying that dollar?
          A. For Mr. Burson; he was the only man he was working for, from the conversation there.
            He was using that ticket in order to get Democrats to vote for Mr. Burson on the
            Democratic ticket.
          On the day of the election he says he was purchasing votes for Mr. Burson. While he was
            engaged in this business, he was more likely to tell the truth than at any other time.
            He says he was using Mr. Burson's means for the procurment of votes for Mr. Burson. I
            take my leave of Mr. Vineyard. I am not here to defend his character;--far be it from
            me. I am not here to say that he should be recognized by his fellow men with that
            courtesy and respect that men should recognize each other, but I am here to say to
            Senators that in my judgment the transaction given by him, taken in connection with
            other facts and circumstances taken, together with the testimony of Thompson, and the
            manner in which the money was paid;--say it convinces me, and I trust convinces you that
            Mr. Burson gave ten dollars to Vineyard to be used in the election and that it was used
            in the election.
          The next is the testimony of William H. Sanders. It will be utterly impossible for me
            to give the time and attention to these witnesses I would like to. 204, 205 and 206 are
            the pages [in the printed testimony.] This man Sanders is the gentleman who owned a
            piece of land some years ago and made an arrangment by which this land was to be
            conveyed to a turnpike corporation upon condition that he was to receive stock from the
            company. It was conveyed but turned out to be a sham affair as the testimony shows;
            which I will not read as I see my time is almost up. But during the candidacy of Mr.
            Burson for a seat in the senate Mr. Burson wrote a letter to this gentlemen telling him
            that he wanted an interview with him. Mr. Sanders had been opposed to Mr. Burson
            previous to that time but he comes in response to this letter; they meet in Mr. Burson's
            bank and thereupon they agree that Mr. Burson who has some control of the matter is to
            direct the corporation to transfer the land back to the individual and thereupon Sanders
            says: I will now vote for you: you have befriended me and I will help you; I will go
            home and do what I can for you: I have relatives and neighbors that I can get to vote
            for you. And he did go home and carry out his part of the agreement, and Mr. Burson
            carried out his part of the agreement. That is all I can say upon Sanders' testimony at
            this time.
          The next witness I rely upon--and then I have given the learned Senator on the other
            side the full points I rely upon in the case--is that of Capt. Lewis. It has been held
            by some in the defense, that his is the main testimony in the case--that without it no
            conviction could be had. I dispute it. There is enough in the case without Lewis, but
            his testimony clearly makes the case. He says that Mr. Burson offered him $200 upon
            condition that he should go home and himself vote for Burson and give Burson the benefit
            of his influence; and upon that point he stands uncontradicted and unimpeached. I rely
            upon it; and will state more fully this afternoon the reasons why I rely upon it, than
            it is possible for me to state now. And in conclusion I will say, having now within the
            limits of the hour given me to make a statement of this case, I have to the best of my
            ability, candidly, sincerely, fairly and truthfully stated the subject matter of the
            case upon which the majority of the committee rely for the conviction of Mr. Burson. I
            believe my time is now up.
          Mr. STEELE spoke in reply as per agreement, two hours--see pages 367 to 376 inclusive.
            When he had concluded--
          
            [Afternoon Session.]
            Mr. BROWN (resuming) said: The dis-  tinguished
              Senator commenced his argument by reflecting on the committee appointed by the Senate
              to discharge the embarrassing duty of investigating this charge against Mr. Burson.
              That committee was appointed by the Senate, and it fell to my lot to be appointed upon
              it. I did not seek the appointment, neither have I thus far, and I hope I shall not
              shrink from the responsibilities that attach to the appointment. That committee
              consists of the Senator from Morgan and Johnson, [Mr. Henderson;] The Senator from
              Knox, [Mr. Williams;] the very able and accomplished Senator from Vigo, [Mr. Scott,]
              and the Senator from Fayette and Union, [Mr. Elliott.] Casting myself out of the
              committee, sir, I say this senate can furnish no better gentlemen than these four;
              none more honorable; none of more ability; none more conscientious; none more desirous
              of rightfully performing their duty. Could I say more? And these gentlemen upon the
              committee will bear me out that at every stage in the progress of this investigation I
              did all in my power to give Mr. Burson a chance to establish his innocence and that I
              desired that Mr. Burson should if possible be saved from the terrible calamity that I
              fear now is about to fall upon him.
            The Senator says there is no sufficient charge here that would warrant a Justice of
              the Peace in ordering a process. Mr. President, if the cause of action was
              insufficient it was the duty of Mr. Burson and his counsel to have moved for more
              specific charges. They did not do so; they were content with the issue as made up.
            Again, he says, in so far as the complaint is fortified, it is fortified upon
              information and belief. Let me say, although a much younger lawyer than the
              Senator--he has been at the bar almost as long as I have been in the world--but let me
              say to him that the Supreme Court has decided time and time again that an affidavit
              made upon information and belief is an affidavit equal to swearing positively to the
              facts and upon it a criminal information can be based. But I cast aside this technical
              pleading of his. I say no sworn statement is necessary in order that an investigation
              may be had by the Senate. The Senate has aheady passed upon it, and the Senate held to
              the contrary doctrine advocated by the Senator over the way. Suppose a Senator elect
              should appear at the bar of the Senate to-morrow, present credentials regular in form
              and ask to be sworn in and admitted upon the floor of the Senate; and suppose the
              Senator from Harrison arises in his place and says, "Mr. President, I have information
              which satisfies me that there is a strong probability that the party claiming a seat
              in the Senate has procured his election by bribery and corruption: I therefore move
              that the Senate appoint a committee to investigate, and inquire, and ascertain whether
              his election has been pure or whether tainted with fraud, and corruption." I should
              like for some one to tell me Mr. President, whether these proceedings would not be
              regular and warranted under the Constitution of the State. There can be no doubt about
              it.
            The Senator says he wants a precedent. I can give the Senator precedent after
              precedent; and one occurs to my mind in which the honor of the State of Indiana was
              involved. Has he forgotten when the Senate of the United States turned Mr. Bright out
              of it, when they said he had been guilty of constructive treason? Surely the Senator
              has not forgotten it. No sworn statement--no protest from his constituents, no cause
              of action in the nature of a criminal information, but a Senator rose in his place and
              said Mr. Bright had written a letter which gave aid and comfort to a public enemy, and
              a mere resolution of inquiry resulted not merely in not allowing him to be sworn in
              but spelling him from the body. A Senator representing the State of Indiana upon the
              floor of the Senate for eighteen years was driven out without criminal proceeding
              being submitted against him; yet the Senator asks with some seeming air of confidence
              for a precedent to defend the action of the majority upon this floor, who say that
              John W. Burson ought not to be admitted because a protest has come here signed by his
              own constituents irrespective of party, charging him with fraud and corruption in
              procuring his election; and the testimony beyond a reasonable doubt, shows the protest
              to be true.
            Now I desire to come to another question. It is said that it takes two-thirds of the
              votes of the Senate to reject an applicant. It has been said with some considerable
              air of confidence that Mr. Burson is a Senator; and that the only rule by which he can
              be got rid of is by expulsion. In the first place I desire to-say that Mr. Burson is
              not a Senator and upon that I submit the record that the Senate has made. [Mr. B. here
              recited the history of this case as recorded on pages 17 to 20; and 446, 447.]
            I call attention to the Constitution of the State where it says "every person shall
              be disqualified from holding office during the term for which he may have been
              elected, who shall have given or offered a bribe, threat, or reward to procure his
              election." This clause goes to the personal qualification of the applicant. Another
              section of the Constitution, I cannot at this time turn to, says that each House shall
              be the judge of the election and return of its own members, the President of the
              Senate excepted. Now, Mr. President, these two constitutional provisions taken
              together show that upon the personal qualifications of a Senator the Senate is the
              exclusive judge. The words "qualifications, returns and election," are all included in
              the same section  of the Constitution and in the
              same line of the Constitution, Mr. President. Now if a majority of the Senate have the
              power to decide that an election is illegal and void; if the majority have the right
              to exclude an applicant upon that ground; under that clause of the Constitution, I
              want to know whether a majority of the Senate cannot also decide whether the party
              possesses the personal qualifications he must possess in order that he may be sworn in
              as a Senator. There is but one constitutional provision that confers authority upon
              the Senate to act, and that constitutional provision includes personal qualifications
              as well as the returns of elections. Upon the question of the expulsion of a Senator
              the constitutional provision is this: "Either House may punish its members for
              disorderly behaviour, and may, with the concurrence of two-thirds, expel a member; but
              not a second time for the same cause." The case at bar is not a case of expulsion, but
              it is simply a case where the judgment of the Senate is asked upon the question
              whether the party has the personal qualifications which by the Constitution of the
              State he must have in order that he may enjoy the privileges of a Senator.
            Mr. STEELE will the Senator allow me?
            Mr. BROWN. I don't interrupt any person and I don't want to be interrupted.
            Mr. STEELE. I was only going to ask whether less than a majority of the Senate can
              determine whether a Senator shan't have a seat?
            Mr. BROWN. That is just the question am discussing. If my ability is so limited that
              the Senator over the way can't understand me he must not interrupt me now. There is
              another constitutional provision upon the subject of impeaching State officers, to be
              tried by the Senate or by a joint resolution of the General Assembly removed from
              office. Where they can be removed from office in that case it requires two thirds.
              Where a two thirds votes is required upon the question of expulsion it applies to a
              case where the party has been inducted into officehas taken upon himself the exercise
              of official duties;where for some cause since his induction into office he should be
              expelled from office. And in that case the party may go back home and be immediately
              returned and because he has been expelled it is no reason why he should not be
              readmitted; but the case at bar is a case of eligibility. The case at bar is one in
              which, if true the party has rendered himself ineligible by his own individual act,
              and if this judgment of the Senate falls upon him and says he is guilty, they may
              re-elect him as often as they please until his term expires but there is no exercise
              of constitutional power that will allow him to be admitted upon the floor of the
              Senate during that term. That is the reason why it requires but a majority to refuse
              to admit him and yet after he has been admitted it requires two thirds to expel
              him.
            I desire now in as brief a manner as possible to refer to one or two witnesses in
              this case. But before doing that I desire to reply in a brief way to something said in
              reference to a witness or two by the Senator over the way [Mr. Steele.] He propounds
              an interrogatory to me, and wants to know where in the testimony of Blount and Everett
              I can discover any improper conduct? I simply reaffirm the position I took this
              morning, and shall add nothing to what I said then. Their testimony shows that they
              were recipients of favors at the hands of Mr. Burson; and what makes it a strong
              circumstance that these favors he so generously bestowed upon them was for the purpose
              of securing their aid and influence at the polls is this that at that time his past
              political friends were deserting him. Those straight jacket Republicans that had been
              standing by Mr. Burson,that had sworn by Mr. Burson that class of men were deserting
              him because, of the fraud and corruption in the procurment of his nomination and is it
              not fair to presume that Mr. Burson thought he had better doctor up the shoemakers
              least they might take the wings of the morning and fly away from him also.
            The position of the Senator [Mr. Steele] is extraordinarily singular. He said Mr.
              Burson would not attempt to bribe the shoemakers because they were for him but then he
              says Mr. Burson would not attempt to bribe Lewis because Lewis was against him. I
              can't see the logic in that proposition.
            Then he comes to Mr. Henry Cline. Mr. Cline was not a witness I relied upon in the
              presentation of the question this morning, although I then believe, as I do now that
              there is much in his testimony that goes to show that John W. Burson and his friends
              were manageing an election in which he was involved, by means indecent and not
              allowable in conducting a fair election. What is the testimony of Mr. Cline? That Mr.
              Burson gave him one dollar and a half upon condition that he would vote for him and
              support him throughout the campaign. That is the covenant and agreement these men
              made. But the gentleman says that Cline has been sucsessfully impeached; he says he
              has been shown to have a reputation, for morality that is bad; that his reputation ,
              for truth and veracity is bad. I admit it Mr. President. Far be it from me to urge one
              thing against Mr. Burson that ought not to be urged against him; but Mr. President, it
              was within the power of John Burson to contradict the statement. Mr. Cline gave the
              dates when the circumstance took placethe times and occasion: and these places and
              occasion and circumstances agree:--within the bank of Mr. Burson and in the presence
              of allies and confederates at that bank and in the printing office;  and if they were not true; and if the time, places and
              circumstances and occasion are not as Cline stated I ask Mr. Burson and his allies why
              it is they have not brought testimony to disprove this witness? We do know that a man
              may have the reputation of a common liar and a base and immoral man yet he my swear to
              the truth and when it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the court or jury trying
              the case that this man subject to impeachment by the ordinary rules of impeachment is
              swearing the truth, the court and the jury is bound to recognize his testimony and
              rely upon it. These men that have this kind of a reputation these men that have no
              regard for their personal character; their status or condition in society, are the
              kind of men the briber takes with his polluted hand and makes his nefarious advances
              to. I desire to came to the testimony of Wm. H. Sanders for a moment.
            Q. After your expressing; this opinion, that you could not vote for him on account of
              this matter, state whether you did not meet Mr. Burson before the primary
              election?
            A. Yes.
            Q. Where?
            A. At Muncie.
            Q. What conversation had you with Mr. Burson in regard to this land of yours and in
              regard to supporting him--together?
            [To this question Mr. Newcomb, in behalf of Mr. Burson, objected, because it relates
              to a time prior to the primary election. The question was for the present withdrawn
              unanswered.]
            Q. Did not Mr. Burson send for you to come to Muncie to see him before you went and
              saw him before the primary election?
            A. I received a note from Mr. Burson.
            Q. Have you got that note yet?
            A. Yes, sir, I have; it is probably at my house; I do not know where.
            Q. That note induced you to go to see Mr. Burson?
            A. Not particularly.
            Q. Would you have gone without receiving the note?
            A. I do not know but what I would, and I do not know that I would.
            Q. Did you go as soon as you received the note?
            A. No, sir.
            Q. How long did you wait?
            A. I do not know the time, but it was some time afterward, I think. I was there on
              business, I think, probably; and if I recollect right, I was after a lot of goods to
              Muncie. I live in Wheeling, and I think I was standing in Mr. Charman's bakery, and I
              had thought that some time I might see Mr. Burson, and speak to him in reply to his
              note. I saw him there, if I recollect right, and I think that is the way that I came
              to speak to him. I just walked across.
            Q. What was said between you and him, in reference to his candidacy for the Senate,
              and all about it; and of your land in that conversation?
            Mr. Newcornb--We object to this: because it was before Mr. Burson was a
              candidate.
            The WitnessIt was before the primary election.
            Mr. Bell--Unless we can show by the terms of the contract itself, or by other
              circumstances that followed on down, and controlled the man during the canvass, till
              the final election, we will not insist that the committee shall regard the
              evidence.
            It was thereupon ordered by the committee, that the witness should state what was
              said in the conversation:
            A. I cannot tell you the conversation that existed then and there in regard to the
              matter. I cannot tell what the conversation was. We talked for some time.
            Q. What did you talk about?
            A. We talked about the subscription of the land one way or another, and he spoke of
              his election. I do not recollect which one introduced that first, but the election
              matter was spoken of, and the subscription of the land. I do not recollect which
              introduced the subject of the subscription of the land first.
            Q. What is the substance of what was said in that conversation?
            A. I cannot tell for the life of me. I believe I can not come any where near giving
              the words: my memory i s very poor. I had a spell of the black erysipelas that
              destroyed my memory to a great extent. We had conversation in regard to that
              subscription of the land, and we had conversation in regard to the primary election.
              He and I talked the matter over; what the substance of it was I can not say.
            Bear in mind here was a conversation going on between Mr. Burson and a man who was an
              avowed opponent.
            Q. What arragement, if any, was made that after that you should support him?
            A. He spoke, about as near as l can recollect, that it was pretty hard for me to pay
              that subscription, but that it did not amount to anything. I believe that is about the
              language he gave, and that he did not think it ever would be collected off me. I think
              he claimed that he felt pretty well satisfied that it would not. I will not be
              positive to state that; but it was something near that effect--something near that
              substance.
            Q. After that conversation, for whom were you for Senator?
            A. I was for Mr. Burson; I voted for him after that conversation.
            What construction can a fair mind place upon this? Here was a man opposing Mr. Burson
              who sends for him, takes him into his private bank and talks to him about a
              transaction in which he has hithereto been opposed to him, and after he goes out of
              Mr. Burson's bank he is for him.
            Q. When did you change from being opposed to Mr. Burson on account of this land
              subscription to being in favor of him?
            A. My acquaintance with Mr. Burson before that time was very limited; I do not know
              that I had spoken to the gentleman more than probably once or twice before that. I
              think I called at the bank for some money. I was sent there by Mr. Ginn and Mr. Nixon
              to get some money. Another time I was sent there with a subscription of stock for this
              road, for some purpose or other, I disremember what. I was sent to call on him about
              something in regard to a subscription of stock.
            Q. When did you come around from being opposed to Mr. Burson to being in favor of
              him? Was it before or after this conversation?
            A. I believe I promised Mr. Burson, right at that time, that I would vote for
              him.
            What induced him to make this promise? Simply because Mr. Burson guaranteed to him
              that the corporation would release the land that this man claimed had been wrongfully
              taken from him.
            Q. What did he say to you, or what did he do for you?
            A. I cannot give you the exact language of Mr. Burson.
            Q. Give us the substance, as near the exact language as possible?
            A. I believe he said--well, I asked him, or was told probably, or understood in some
              way or other, that lie was interested in some way in the pike, and  that he held some office probably; and I think I asked him
              at that time, while we had that conversation, if he held any office in the company,
              and I believe he told me that he did not at that time. I would like to just give the
              language if I could.
            Q. Give us the substance of it. What did he say he would do for you if you would
              support him?
            A. I believe he said he would see the directors probably I think he said he would see
              the directors at some time at their meeting, and would make a statement to them in
              regard to the matter and my condition. I was a poor man, and afflicted considerably, I
              had a disease that impaired my health considerably. We talked about the matter, arid I
              believe he said he would see the directors at their meeting, and would instruct them,
              probably. Now I am not positive just as to the substance of that language going in
              this way, but I think he said he would instruct them that that thing should be
              released. He promised me right then that he would do that. I told him, "Mr. Burson, if
              you will do that it would be quite a favor," and that if I could favor him I would do
              so. Said I, "Mr. Burson, I will vote for you. I am considerably acquainted in the
              township where I reside, and I will see my friends and introduce the matter." I was
              also acquainted in Union township, and would see some of my friends there, and mention
              the matter to them.
            Mark the contrast. It is drawn with all the care and skill the distinguished lawyer
              over the way would draw a contract. He says after arriving at the result "I will vote
              for you." Is that not probable? If while a candidate for a public office I go to an
              elector whose land I hold and say I will release the hold I have upon him if he will
              vote for me, I taint myself with bribery and fraud and corruption, and the Senate owes
              it to its honor and dignity to say so. I take my leave of that distinguished witness.
              Tell me not this is not a case of bribery offered by Mr. Burson and accepted by the
              party he proposed to bribe.
            I desire now to come to the testimony of Captain Lewis, and I shall come at once to
              the main points of this evidence. But I desire to say just a word of Captain Lewis
              before I entor upon the examination of his evidence. His personal character has been
              assaulted and assailed upon the floor of the Senate--indecently assaulted and asailed.
              Captain Lewis is show by several witnesses to be a man of good moral character, and a
              man whose general reputation for truth and veracity is good. It is true that when the
              late war broke out although then a young man, he left his home and fireside and threw
              his life and his all in the breach and helped carry the victorious banner of the
              American Union. It is also true that he thought it was his duty to sustain the
              Republican party from his entrance into political life to the present time, and he has
              so done. He is one of that class of our fellow citizens that has been so loudly
              praised by words and hugged with such fond affection to the bosoms dear of the
              Republican party, and one of that class of our fellow citizens that command profound
              regard and sincere respect by all. But all at once they find that this veteran in his
              country's cause--this man who has buried part of his body that the Union might live;
              this man who has stood up with fidelity and fealty to his party, has incurred the
              highest displeasure of the Senator over the way and some other Senators, and to-day
              they brand him before the Senate as a liar unworthy of belief. Oh! he is not the
              gallant defender of his country's cause that he was before he had the manhood, the
              independence and the honor of truth to stand up against the great mogul of the
              Republican party and testify to the infamy of John W. Burson. He says:
            Q. What do you know, if anything, of John W. Burson's having offered any person or
              persons any money, or any other thing of value, in order to influence the vote of any
              such person, or control his or their action, in or about his election last
              October?
            A. John W. Burson offered me two hundred dollars for my vote and influence in
              Washington Township. That was from two to four weeks previous to the final
              election.
            And in that answer lies the cause for the unprovoked, wanton and insiduous attack
              upon the character and honor of this man. That is the reason--that in this cause--this
              the inducement that caused the Senator over the way to grow eloquent with invective
              and pour out the viles of his mighty wrath upon the head of this witness. It was
              because the testimony of this witness makes a case of bribery and corruption beyond
              any doubt against John W. Burson; and I should like to see Senators defend themselves
              at the bar of an intelligent public and refuse to say that this testimony does not
              make a case against him. The constitution of the State does not require Lewis to
              accept this bribe;the constitution, as well as the common law of all ages makes the
              bribe complete upon the part of the briber the moment he opens his putrid lips and
              makes the infamous proposition.
            Q. Where was that offered you?
            A. Standing upon the Elliott corner in the city of Muncie. I do not know the names of
              the streets. There are three corners there; one known as the Nealy corner, one as the
              Joe Davis corner, and the other as the Elliott Corner.
            Q. Did you accept his offer?
            A. I did not.
            Now Mr. President, I desire to show how this witness is sustained by other testimony
              given in this case. I refer to the testimony of Joseph Hinton. I shall put the
              testimony and the record against the statement of the distinguished Senator over the
              way [Mr. Steele] and let the two go down to posterity as part of the history involved
              in this transaction, He says.
            Q. Are you acquainted with Hon. John W. Burson Capt. Wm. Lewis?
            A. l am somewhat acquainted with both of the gentlemen.
            Q. State if you saw them together last fall, sometime about the last of August or
              during the month of September, on the corner of a street in Muncie, talking together
              earnestly?
            To which Mr. Newcomb, in behalf of Mr. Burson, objected, on the ground that the same
              matter had been gone into by the prosecution when making their case in chief.
            The Committee took the question of the admissibility of the evidence under
              advisement, and it  was admitted for the present,
              to be excluded hereafter if the Committee shall so determine.
            A. I cannot say how the parties came together; but I saw Mr. Lewis and Mr. Burson
              talking there. The day and date I could not give you.
            Q. What time do you think it was--whether before or after Mr. Kline had come out as a
              candidate, or with reference to any other circumstance that may fix it in your
              mind?
            A. I could not say whether Mr. Kline had come out as a candidate or not.
            Q. What corner were they on?
            A. The corner that is called usually "George Elliott's Corner," near a jewelry
              store.
            Q. How long did you see them together there?
            A. I could not state exactly. They were there some little time.
            Q. Did you see them separate?
            A. I believe I did.
            Q. Do you know where Mr. Lewis went to when they separated?
            A. Lewis came across to where I was, at the Davis House.
            Q. Who was there with you?
            A. Mr. Johnson and myself were there, I think, and George Stephenson was standing
              opposite us.
            Q. Did you notice which way Mr. Burson went from there?
            A. I think he went towards the railroad.
            That is what the other witness says:
            Q. Did you ever see them there more than that one time?
            A. No sir.
            So he stands corroberated by a witness who saw the transaction but did not hear the
              words. I desire to go farther and show the motive of Mr Burson, in making his offered
              bribe.
            Q. State whether or not, prior to that time, there had been or had not been any
              violent opposition to Mr. Burson in the township in which you resided, and in which he
              asked your influence?
            A. Our township was supposed to contain the most violent opposition to Mr. Burson of
              any township in the county. That was my understanding.
            Does that not show the motive for making an offered bribe? It was necessary to
              consult this man Lewis, who was a candidate himself for Township Trustee and already
              recognized as an active and controlling man of suffrage in his township. Here was a
              most violent opposition to Mr. Burson because of the bribery and corruption--because
              of the corrupt and indecent manner in which he procured the nomination, and it was
              necessary that Mr. Burson should use some man by whom he could allay that opposition
              and bring the people to his support. And it is also shown in the testimony that Mr.
              Burson knew this opposition existed against him, and admitted to Mr. Lewis that such
              was the case.
            Q. State whether you made known, shortly afterward, to any person, the purport of
              that conversation?
            A. I did to one man only.
            Q. What was his name?
            A. George W. Stephenson.
            Here is another corrobative circumstance. These parties conceded the fact within
              twenty minutes after this unaccepted offer he told it to Mr. Stephenson his partner in
              business. Here is this witness corroberated. I now come further along in this
              cross-examination.
            Q. What conversation took place between you and Mr. Burson? How did it commence, and
              what was said by each party?
            A. The conversation relative to Mr. Burson's case was this: He was wanting to know
              what his prospects were in that township, and I told him it was solid against him, or
              in a manner so.
            All this was told before the proffer of a bribe was mode.
            Q. Did you tell him then you were opposed to him?
            A. I did not tell him at that time; I did after this proposition was made.
            Surely he ought to have been opposed to him after the proposition was made. Captain
              Lewis is one of the men who in the start was in favor of Mr. Burson, but when that
              class of high minded independent, upright, honorable man saw indecent and corrupt
              means employed to bring about Burson's election he cut loose from the briber and gave
              his support to a better and purer man. He says.
            A. I did not tell him at that time; I did after this proposition was made.
            Q. You told him your township was against him?
            A. Yes, or in a manner so.
            Q. What was next said?
            A. He said he knew that was the worst township he had to contend with in the county,
              and that they would almost cut any man's throat who stood up for him in that
              township.
            Was it not necessary that he should have some friend up there? Tell me, Senators, was
              there not a strong motive for Mr. Burson, if of that character of political scavengers
              that would offer bribes--was it not strong inducement to offer bribes in order to
              bring down the opposition in that township, and have more successful sailing? Now I
              desire to come to one man who impeaches him: Jesse Faulkner, whom we have been told
              the Senator from Grant [Mr. Steele] is personally acquainted with; and he is a great
              and good man. So be it. I will come to the point upon which this man proposes to
              impeach Captain Lewis.
            Q. What question did you then ask him in regard to Mr. Burson and votes, if any?
            A. I asked him this question: said I, "Captain, come down on the honor of a man, and
              tell us whether Burson did buy you or offer to buy you or any other man." I had always
              taken him to be a confidential man, and whenever he told me anything for truth, I took
              it to be so.
            Q. What did he say in answer to that question?
            A. He said he had not bought him.
            This testimony shows that he was not purchasable--not in the market.
            Q. You had always taken him to be a man of truth?
            A. I had taken him to be a confidential friend.
            Here is their own witness showing that he took this man to be a man of truth.
            Q. In what respect had he betrayed your confidence.
            A. In his political action.
            Q. Had you any special confidence in the captain that he would vote for Burson.
            A. No, sir. The captain had always acted in the arena with the Republican party.

            

            Q. Was not this the question you asked him: "Now, captain, do you believe on the
              honor of a man, that Burson bought any votes."
            We are not saying that Lewis testified that Burson did buy votes; we say this: that
              Burson offered to buy him. The offer fastens the crimewhether accepted or not. That is
              the difficulty the gentleman over the way got into.
            A. I talked to him like that; it was about that.
            Q. And it was not, then, "come down," and so on, "on the honor of a man."
            A. I might haved used both words, and I do not know but I did. I told him to come to
              the honor of a man, and tell me the truth.
            Q. You do not propose, then, to give the exact words, but only the substance.
            A. That is as near as I can come at it; those I think are the words. I do not charge
              my memory with these things: I had no suspicion that I would ever be called up about
              it.
            Here is a remarkable witness these gentlemen bring here for the purpose of impeaching
              this man. What does he swear to? He says he can't say; he can't give the exact
              language; he may be mistaken about it; he never charged his memory upon the subject;
              he can't say; he can't give the conversation correct. Who then is more likely to give
              the conversation correct? The man to which the offered bribe was made that so raised
              his indignation that lie told Mr. Burson that he would not support him--the man whose
              mind was indelibly fixed upon it--the very language if not the intonation of voice in
              which it was made? I say the strong probabilities are that Captain Lewis remembers the
              conversation correctly and that the other man does not.
            But I desire to go a little further into Lewis' testimony.
            A. I answer, no. And now I want to make an explanation.
            That shows the candid, honest, upright witness.
            I said something on that subject; I did have a conversation with Mr. Carroll, and
              told him I expected my name was on the list of witnesses, or that I had been told that
              it would be. That was the day before the witnesses were brought down here in the first
              place, that I had went home, and if they wanted me they would have to send for me, for
              I was going to attend to business at home; and perhaps I made the statement to him
              that I did not know any that would do anything good to either party. I supposed that
              in a case of this kind a man would have to be offered a bribe and receive it before it
              would have any effect. I did not know that the mere offering and rejecting it amounted
              to anything.
            That is the reason why he said he knew nothing material in the case; because not
              being versed in the law--being in the dark like some Senators over the way--he did'nt
              know that an offered bribe fastens crime upon the offerer, but presumed the offered
              bribe would have to be accepted. For that reason he presumed he knew nothing material
              in the case.
            When I was making these statements I was doing it innocently: still, I would probably
              have made the statement any how, in pretty much the same way that I did. As to saying
              that there were plenty of men in the country that could be hired to swear to anything,
              I do not know whether I made that statement or not.
            Why is it that the witness makes this explanation? For this apparent reason Mr.
              President. The testimony shows that in the conversation between Lewis and Burson, in
              which this offered bribe was made, it was agreed between Lewis and Burson that the
              matter should be kept a secret. Mr. Burson found himself in a bad predicament when he
              found his bribe was not accepted, and Mr. Lewis was generous enough and charitable
              enough to say that the matter should not be made public, and in making the matter
              known to his business partner certainly did not intend to make the matter public, no
              more than a man expects what he tells his wife would be made public. With him existed
              those relations of confidence of men whose fortunes and happiness are united, and
              surely it is not strange that he should make known to his partner that Mr. Burson made
              this remarkable proposition. It was not for the public ear and did not go to the
              public. Mr. Lewis kept his word and did not make that conversation known from that day
              until the time he was put upon the witness stand, and by the power of law compelled to
              state it. And he has been sought to be impeached in various ways--by bringing down
              zealous supporters of John W. Burson to repeat every little heated political
              discussion that took place between Lewie and any personal and political friend of Mr.
              Burson. All the testimony upon which they seek to impeach this man is simply those
              little political cavils and disputes that take place in almost every town or village
              neighborhood. * * *
            I now take my leave of this case as my time is out. I have performed as best I can
              the duty I was called upon to preform by a majority of the committee;not satisfactory
              to myself;and my sincere desire now is that every Senator in the exercise of his right
              to vote upon this question will not respect party restrictions or party trammels; and
              I must say I cannot withhold from saying that as far as the Democratic party of this
              Senate is concerned it has no restraint to place upon a single individual Senator of
              that party requiring of him the manner in which he shall cast his vote. This matter of
              how the votes of Democrats should be cast has not been considered in caucus or out of
              caucus, or consulted about by Democrats, but every Democrat stands here in his
              individual character untrammeled by party restrictions, unchained by party cauces;
              unrestrained by party direction or limitation; and let me beseech Democratic Senators;
              let me in the name of mercy--let me in the name of the laws and Constitution of my
              State; in the name of common justice and integrity; in the name of all that gives
              value to liberty and happiness; let me implore and beseech them unless they believe
              according to the law  and the testimony in this
              case, that John W. Burson is guilty, to cast no vote against him. No man can justify
              himself or defend himself against the remorse of conscience that will cast a vote
              against John W. Burson here unless he believes the law and the facts involved in this
              case will warrant it.
            On that side of the chamber, if you desire your dying hour to be happy, when the
              clouds of the long night gather round you and you take your exit from this world to
              that brighter clime beyond;if you desire to make that hour happy, you too must cast
              that vote according to a clear conscience and a sincere desire to do right and be
              just. No party restraint should call upon you for a vote of innocence, if your
              judgmemt calls upon you for a vote of guilty.
            In conclusion, this is a responsibility that rests upon us all. That responsibility
              soon will be rolled off our shoulders, and I trust when gone, it will have traveled in
              the right direction, and be sustained by the Constitution and laws of our State and an
              intelligent and enlightened public. Mr. President, I thank you and the Senate for the
              kind attention you have given me. Inasmuch as the arrangement is completed that was
              entered into I move the previous question.
            This demand was seconded--see page 234.
          
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Word "White"--Debate in Continuation.
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            TUESDAY, February 7, 1871.
          
          [Afternoon Session.]
          Mr. WILSON. Mr. Speaker, It will be remembered that some days ago House Bill No. 82
            introduced by myself failed to pass for want of the constitutional majority. As the bill
            is on the Speaker's table and has precedence, upon being called up, of other bills on
            their passage--I desire now that the vote may again be taken on the passage of this
            bill;--and I ask consent to explain very briefly, what seemed to be doubtful upon the
            first vote. The Speaker thought it very strange that an amendment, simply striking out
            one word in a law could not be done without repeating the section amended. If this were
            not so, how sir, could a law be intelligently revised? By saying, add to or strike out
            such a word, here, or there? Not at all--a procedure of this character would be a
            nullity. The province of an amendment is not to state how to do a particular thing, but
            by the change to do that which may either make the law more complete as a whole or
            entirely it abrogate by a repealing clause.
          The change of the Enumeration Law which I seek in this bill is by striking out the word
            "white" wherever it occurs in the law. I know, sir, I am met with objections by my
            Democratic friends, some declaring that the constitution limits the Enumeration to white
            male inhabitants. So reads that instrument, but how much of it, for years even before
            the war, has been recognized by both political parties as a dead letter? The "Black
            Code" for instance. And since the ratification by the requisite number of Legislatures
            of the XVth amendment, this of itself renders whatever restrictions are imposed by the
            constitution upon the colored race in this State inoperative and void.
          But Mr. Speaker, I hope I may be indulged while I allude to another objection that is
            made to the change of the enumeration law as sought by this amendment. I remember, sir,
            when the XVth amendment was before the people in 1868, in that memorable campaign, when
            the whole power of the Democracy, north and south, rallied in opposition to it,
            proclaiming that its endorsement by the people would be their humiliation and disgrace;
            that it would place the negros in our drawing rooms, and admit them to the social
            circle; in other words that by its ratification the colored race would acquire more than
            we possess, without an adequate return for the privilege, or heritage;--my friend from
            Monroe [Mr. Mitchell] will not deny this for his party;--and now let me ask him, since
            the XVth amendment has become the law of the land, has he suffered in conscience, have
            his rights been encroached upon, has the family circle been invaded by the blacks?
            Certainly not, nor will it ever be unless by his invitation and permission. It is not
            right, it is not justice--not humanity to let the prejudice weigh against human liberty,
            equality before the law, and being permitted to do whatever the Maker endows the human
            being with the power of doing. Society then has its laws by which the will of that being
            is controlled, and moulded to the common interest for the common good.
          The Democratic party has been in sore distress and in loud lamentations for fear the
            negro would gain the mastery; neither do we want them to gain the mastery, but of this I
            have no fears. Yet I say to the negro if you  can
            outstrip me in the race of life, posessing alike as we do the common attributes, and
            endowed alike by the Creator--then God speed you. But now by their very vote on this
            very bill they do the very thing which they have so long been preaching and proclaiming
            against and in fear of, from every rostrum and cross road in the country that the
            colored race would have more privileges than they enjoy. They give them these
            privileges--they say when they refuse to strikeout the word "white," that all may be
            taxed alike for school and other purposes: "No, you may by one law enjoy the benefit of
            our schools, but you shall pay no tax; our money only shall keep up the schools; you may
            own property, but you need'nt pay any tax, we only will pay tax on our property; go
            hence without day--you are free." Yes, you give them, by your negative vote the highest
            seat in the synagogue. Well, my Democratic friends, if that's your creed, we can swallow
            as much as you can, but I assure you we don't have to choke it down, to get it to the
            stomach. We are in favor of equal and exact justice to all men--we are opposed to
            enjoying freedom and its attendant blessings and denying them to others, be they ever so
            humble or black. I ask Mr. Speaker, that the bill may again be put on its passage, let
            the ayes and nays be called.
          After further debate thereon by Messrs. Mitchell and Cox, the second vote on this bill
            resulted, yeas 46, nays 45--as follows:
          
            
              
                YEAS--Messrs. Bellinger, Beeler, Biggs, Butterworth, Calkins
                  of Fulton, Calkins of Porter, Conner, Defrees, Deputy, Friedley, Furnas, Gordon,
                  of Boone, Heilman, Henderson, Hill, Hooker, Kennedy,King, Kirkpatrick, Knight,
                  Lines, Major, Martin of Wayne, Martin of Putnam, Millekan, Monroe, Myers,
                  Netherton, Ray, Rawles, Rhodes, Ruddell, Sabin, Sayers, Snodgrass, St. John,
                  Stone, Strickland, Taylor, Washburn, White, Williams, Wilson, Wood, Woodard and
                  Wymer--46.
                NAYS--Messrs. Abbett, Barnaby, Britton, Browning, Bruner, Caldwell, Cauthorn,
                  Copner, Cox, Cunningham, Curtis, Devol, Donham, Gallentine, Gentry, Goble, Gordon
                  of Cass, Guthrie, Hardin, Hartley, Haynes, Hendry, Hynes, McDonald, Me Dowell,
                  McFarland, McGowan, Minich, Miles, Mitchell, Montgomery, Neff, Oatley, Rice,
                  Simpson, Shutt, Stanley, Stephens, Tarlton, Taughinbaugh, Tebbs, Walker, Warrum,
                  Zenor and Mr. Speaker--45.
              
            
          
          So the bill was lost.
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Common School Law--Debate in Continuation.
        
          HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
          
            THURSDAY, February 9, 1871.
          
          [IN CONTINUATION FROM PAGE 258MIDDLE OF THE FIRST COLUMN.]
          Mr. NETHERTON. Mr. Speaker: In further considering the propriety or impropriety of
            adopting the report of the committee on the pending bill, I desire to reply briefly, to
            the argument, if such it may be called, of the gentleman from Fountain [Mr. Cunningham]
            who has just spoken in defense of the report submitted to the House by the Committee on
            Education. The gentleman in his defense of said report contends that the changes
            proposed by my bill, proposing to amend sections thirty-four and thirty-five of the
            present school law would be oppressive, inasmuch as the grade of scholarship required
            thereby would virtually throw out of employment a large number of teachers who are now
            only able to get license for six months, and under the law proposed would be compelled
            to quit this vocation and seek some other. In reply to this I will remark that the
            teacher should, before being licensed to teach, be required to possess the same degree
            of proficiency and ability for the work of teaching which is required by those who
            engage in any of the professional avocations of life. If the gentleman from Fountain
            would employ to discharge their respective duties, a Physician, a Lawyer, or a Mechanic,
            it would not, I suppose, be the services of the quack, the petifogger or the bungler
            that he would seek; but it is supposed that the Physician of experience and ability, the
            Lawyer who understands his business, and the Mechanic skilled in workmanship would be
            the men whom he would employ to minister to his mortal ills; to transact his legal
            business or to erect his mansion: and then if this be true, upon what hypothesis or by
            what parity of reasoning would he retain in the school room as educators of the immortal
            mind those who are able to receive upon examination, only the grade of scholarship now
            requisite to obtain a six months license to teach?
          Will he contend that even the health of the body is of more importance than the
            cultivation and development of the mind intrusted to so great an extent to the teacher?
            Does he consider the work of litigation of more consequence to the people of Indiana,
            than the advancement of our public schools and the elevation of the standard of
            education in our midst? Does he deem the workmanship of the mechanic of more value than
            the intellectual structure erected by the teacher; whose business it is to give shape
            and direction to the youthful energies of those whose education is to so great an extent
            committed to his hands?
          Manifestly the labors, duties and responsibilities of the teacher's profession are such
            as to require of those who engage in it a higher degree of proficiency than can
            reasonably be expected under the provisions of the present law, permitting teacher's
            licence to be granted for only six months, with a grade of scholarship below the actual
            demands of our public schools; while by thus opening our schools to incompetent and
            inefficient teachers we are virtually in many places, depriving the people of our State
            of the services of that greatly needed class of teachers who have prepared themselves
            for the work of teaching; having, on examination received teachers' license for eighteen
            or twenty-four months. The incompetent "quack" in the pre-eminently important profession
            of teaching, comes forward for employment in the school room with very meagre
            attainments and only a six months  license; yet
            because this individual is under our school law, barely eligible to be employed by the
            Trustee and paid out of the tuition fund, and will perhaps, as well he may, teach a few
            dollars cheaper than the teacher possessing years of experience probably, and
            twenty-four months license, he, or she, is permitted to enter upon the arduous task of
            instructing the youthful mind of those who to-day, sir, in many parts of Indiana are
            rapidly approaching the close of the school term with but little if any real improvement
            or true progress in the vast realm of thought and education; in the true sense of the
            word.
          As well may we expect water to rise above its source, or that the bitter fountain will
            send forth sweet waters, as to hope that our public school system will ever met the
            demands of the people; as those true interests require, while we are by the present low
            standard of proficiency required of those who teach our common schools taking from the
            truly earnest and well qualified teachers in our midst the just incentives to labor in
            their appropriate spheres as instructors, and retain in their stead those whose low
            grade of sholarship, inattention to any adequate preparation for their work, together
            with the lack of earnestness arid interest in their work so often clearly manifested on
            their part, all show clearly that they have either mistakened their calling or entered
            upon it before they were in any way prepared to discharge its manifold and arduous
            duties, while the trne interests and education of the rising generation, the hope of our
            State, are being daily sacrificed as the result of this sadly mistaken notion so
            unfortunately exemplified in that portion of our school law which the pending bill
            proposes to amend.
          Mr. Speaker: I by no means depreciate the educational advancement which Indiana has
            made since the adoption of her public school system, but after the progress we have made
            in this direction, and with our Colleges, Universities, Academies and High Schools
            opening their portals to those desiring to prepare for the work of teaching, will it be
            seriously contended by the gentleman from Fountain, or any other member in this House
            that we are not prepared to take this step and that there is not a sufficiency of
            teachers in every county in the State who are, or before the first of September
            next--the time designated for this bill to take effect--will be prepared to pass the
            requisite examination on the branches which should all be taught in our public schools
            (as contemplated in this bill,) and receive a grade of scholarship worthy of the
            vocation upon which they are to enter, and which to-day involves more for the weal or
            woe of the citizens of our commonwealth, both for the present and future, than any other
            interest, vocation or calling short of the proclamation of the Gospel of Eternal
            Truth.
          Sir, as soon as we raise the educational standard in our State to that position it
            should occupy in connection with our public schools, we shall find competent, earnest
            and energetic teachers ready and willing to take the position of teacher in the common
            schools and discharge the duties of their vocation in a manner worthy of themselves as
            well as the sacred and important trusts committed to their care.
          And what have we to gain by defering this step? Manifestly nothing, as I hope will be
            clearly evident to every member on this floor; who, it is hoped, will, in the vote to be
            taken in a few moments refuse to concur in the report of the committee and allow this
            bill to go forward in its regular order to its final passage. All the features of this
            bill proposing to change and amend sections thirty-four and thirty-five of our school
            law have, I deem it, been sufficiently discussed in these remarks and those I made when
            I first rose to discuss the bill and the committee report, and I consider it unnecessary
            to occupy longer the attention of the House. Sir, in discussing a measure so clearly in
            the interest of the people of the whole State, now is the time to raise to its proper
            elevation the standard of education in the public schools of Indiana; and let us, Mr.
            Speaker, and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, at this session of the
            Legislature take an important step in that direction by the adoption of the provisions
            incorporated in the pending bill, and in future years we shall receive the thanks,
            approval and grateful approbation of those who shall reap the untold benefits of a
            thoroughly efficient public school system, and with joyful success be enabled in our
            public schools to prepare to discharge respectively the necessary duties of life; and
            with bright prospects before them ascend the hill of science amid the effulgent rays of
            the golden sun of literature which shall illuminate their pathway. [See page 258 middle
            of first column.]
        
      

      

      
        APPENDIX TO THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
        TWELFTH VOLUME.
        The Closing Hour in the Senate.
        
          IN SENATE.
          
            MONDAY, February 27, 1871.
          
          [IN CONTINUATION FROM THE CLOSE OF THE FIRST PARAGRAPH ON PAGE 383.]
          Now again, some say there can be no adjournment of the General Assembly except by a
            concurrent resolution and that the passage of a concurrent resolution involves the
            performance of legislative business, and therefore can not be done. I do not believe
            that the Senate of the State of Indiana has no power to adjourn sine
              die unless the House consents to it by a concurrent resolution, and I say there
            is not one line or syllable in the Constitution of the State that requires the passage
            of a concurrent resolution when the General Assembly may be adjourned sine
              die. It can be done in either branch of the General Assembly upon a mere motion,
            sir. If I rise in my place in this Senate to-day, and move that the Senate adjourn sine die and a majority of the Senate vote to sustain the motion, that
            is the end of the body for this term. The House may sit longer, or go sooner, as it
            pleases. The action of either body to adjourn finally is not estopped by the action of
            the other, and it can be nowhere found in the Constitution that it is.
          While upon this question of adjourning sine die I will say, it is very plain that no
            legislative business can be done this session. The President of the Senate said the
            other day that he would sign no bill that would be signed thereafter. If I mistake him,
            I desire that he shall correct me now. If the President of the Senate so said he meant
            what he said. And if the President of the Senate does not sign a bill it does not become
            a law. [Mr. Bradley rising and addresing the chair.] If the Senator will tell how he
            will make the President sign a bill when he says he will not, perhaps I will give more
            consideration to the Senator's proposition to proceed with legislative business.
          Mr. BRADLEY. I will ask whether the President has any right to make that statement?
          Mr. BROWN. That is for the President of the Senate to determine for himself.
          Mr. BRADLEY. It was premature was it not?
          Mr. BROWN. I am one of those Democrats who believe in the old doctrine of free speech
            and would not restrict the right of the President of the Senate to make whatever
            declaration he may choose; as for the propriety of his conduct I will leave that to the
            Hon. Senator from Laporte [Mr. Bradley] who better understands such points of etiquette
            than I do. Then it being known that this General Assembly, by the action of certain
            members of the other House is now in a position where it can accomplish no legislative
            action--where it can do no good for the people of Indiana--where it can furnish no
            legislation, and give no consideration for the money which it takes from the pockets of
            the people of Indiana, I say for one, it is an extravagance unwarranted--an expenditure
            of money unjustified, a filching from the people's pocket books and purses unpardonable
            for this General Assembly to stay here one moment longer than is necessary to dissolve
            its functions and go back to the people and save as much of their hard earned taxes as
            it is in our power to save. I, for one, shall cast my vote to adjourn sine
              die the first opportunity, taking the risk and consequences of the right or wrong
            of my action at the bar of public opinion. [See first paragraph top of page 383.]
          [IN CONTINUATION FROM THE BOTTOM OF THE FIRST COLUMN PAGE 383.]
          Mr. SCOTT. I want to rise to a point of or-  der,
            as to how this motion of the Senator over the way ever got upon the record.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Senator rose to take an appeal from the decision of the
            Chair, and I entertained his appeal at the time, but, as he states, he had no
            opportunity to send it up.
          Mr. SCOTT. The Chair will remember that I had the floor and made a motion to adjourn,
            and pending a call for the yeas and nays, the Senator sent up his resolution, which the
            Chair decided out of order.
          Mr. BEADLEY. The Senator is mistaken, the resolution had been offered the previous
            day.
          Mr. SCOTT. What day was it offered on?
          Mr. BRADLEY. It was offered on Thursday; and on Friday while the roll call was being
            made, the presiding officer decided the resolution out of order.
          Mr. SCOTT. I don't know how that could be done. No business could intervene while the
            roll was being called.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. What is the point of order?
          Mr. SCOTT. That the resolution of the Senator over the way to pay for this gentleman's
              BREVIER REPORTS is not in order.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Chair ruled it out of order, and upon that the appeal is
            taken.
          Mr. SCOTT. I make a point of order beyond that. I understand that it was introduced
            while a call of the House was being taken.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. No no. The Senator from Laporte [Mr. Bradley] has the history
            correct.
          Mr. SCOTT. If it was pending the call the appeal was taken, that certainly would be out
            of order. The Chair will recollect that I moved an adjournment as soon as the hammer
            fell. The Chair recognized me, I made the motion, and the motion was carried. Then the
            Senator from Whitley [Mr. Hooper] obtained the floor before any other person did, and
            moved an immediate adjournment. There was a call for the ayes and nays upon that motion
            and while the yeas and nays were being called the Senator took his appeal, which
            certainly would be improper.
          Mr. BRADLEY. It was while that call was being made that the President decided the
            resolution out of order, and the moment he made the decision I took an appeal.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Senator from Laporte has it right, and if any body
            blundered it was the Chair at that time. I did it because I thought it due to all
            parties that I should define my position on this quorum question.
          Mr. SCOTT. The Chair was informing the Senate of his opinion of the condition the House
            had placed us in. I did not understand that he was ruling on that resolution.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The Chair overrules the point of order. The question before
            the Senate now is on the amendment offered by the Senator from Jackson, that this Senate
            adjourn sine die.
          Mr. GEEEN. Then this question of appeal is not before the Senate now.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. It is not before the Senate now.
          Mr. GEEEN. I want to be heard on it when it is.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. Very well. Read the amendment.
          The Secertary read as follows.
          Amend by striking out the word "when" and all after the word "adjourn" and insert in
            lieu the words "sine die" so that it will read Resolved, that the senate adjourn sine die.
          The yeas and nays deing demanded.
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR said: As many Senators as favor the substitute offered by the
            Senator from Jackson will say "aye" as their names are called, and as many as are of the
            contrary opinion will say "no" as their names are called.
          The vote resulted as follows:
          
            
              
                YEAS--Messrs. Armstrong, Beardsley, Beeson, Beggs, Brown,
                  Carnahan, Case, Caven,Collett, Denbo, Elliott, Franscisco, Glessner, Gray, Green,
                  Henderson, Hooper, Hubbard, Martindale, Miller, Robinson, Rosebrugh, Steele,
                  Stroud, Taylor, Wadge and Mr. Wood--27.
                NAYS--Messrs. Alsop, Bradley, Dittemore, Fuller, Gregg,
                  Johnston, Laselle, Morgan Scott and Williams--10.
              
            
          
          Pending the roll call--
          Mr. SCOTT, in explanation of his vote, was understood to say: I would be very glad,
            inded, to vote for this resolution, but from the fact that I desire a report from a
            special investigating committee, I ought not to, and I therefore vote no.
          Mr. HADLEY said. I wish to announce the fact that I am paired with the Senator from
            Wells (Mr. Dougherty.)
          The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR. The yeas are twenty seven, nays ten, so the resolution
            prevails and I now declare the Senate of the Forty-seventh General Assembly adjourned
              sine die.
        
      

      

      
        GENERAL INDEX.
        A ABBETT, O. H. P., a representative from the counties of Bartholomew and Shelby. His
          motions--24, 25, 29, 60, 87, 128, 163, 178, 186, 187, 213, 223, 260, 265, 267. Bills
          introduced by--98, 121, 164, 347. Acts passed this session, list and description of--358,
          362. Agent of State--203, 208, 232, 234, 235, 236, 244, 245, 250, 329, 346, 354, 481-484.
          ALSOP, JOSHUA, a senator from the counties of Sullivan and Clay. His motion--122.
          Amendment to the State and Federal Constitutions--[See "Constitution."] ANDREWS, ALANSON,
          a senator from the counties of Jennings and Scott. His motions--21, 123, 167, 196, 204,
          233; 252, 274, 281, 292. Bills introduced by--83, 125, 281. Apportionment for
          representative purposes. Text of bills for--269, 270, 348, 349. ARMSTRONG, A. D., a
          senator from the counties of Howard and Carroll. His motions--116, 225, 271, 317. Bills
          introduced by--95, 125, 143, 233. B BALLENGER, WM. S., a representative from the county of
          Wayne. His motions--63, 69, 85, 86, 89, 96, 105, 110, 111, 118, 126, 128, 139, 145, 146,
          147, 148, 162, 163, 178, 179, 181, 186, 187, 188, 197, 205, 206, 207, 214, 217, 235, 247,
          251, 258, 259, 269, 276, 277, 285, 286, 294, 296, 297, 337, 338, 340, 341, 345, 446, 349,
          350. Bills introduced by--56, 101, 102, 110, 129, 217, 266, 347. Resolutions submitted
          by--164, 266. Bank Stock, municipal taxation of--39, 261, 345, 485-491. BARNABY, HENRY S.,
          a representative from the county of Clarke. His motions--24, 68, 105, 164, 186, 198, 213,
          215, 267, 276, 313. Bills introduced by--55, 91, 164, 265. BEARDSLEY, JAMES R., a senator
          from the county of Elkhart. His motions--264, 272, 299. Bills introduced by--54, 73, 92,
          125. Resolution submitted by--264. BEELER, FIELDING, a representative from the county of
          Marion. His motions--128, 248, 286, 301. Bills introduced by--128. BEESON, OTHNIEL, a
          senator from the county of Wayne. His motions--57, 93, 113, 114, 115, 151, 192, 231, 234,
          245, 255, 278, 279, 282, 292, 309, 345. Bills introduced by--73, 95, 125, 150, 232, 245.
          Resolutions submitted by--125, 278, 279. His speech on the female suffrage amendment
          proposition--492, 493. BEGGS, JOHN, a senator from the county of Franklin. His
          motions--211, 272, 292. Bills introduced by--202. BIGGS, HIRAM S., a representative from
          the county of Kosciusko. His motions--68, 86, 118, 127, 128, 136, 139, 145, 146, 186, 187,
          188, 197, 205, 207, 219, 221, 223, 229, 230, 235, 256, 267, 268, 277, 285, 286, 287, 291,
          295, 301, 306, 307, 313, 318, 324, 330, 331, 332, 336, 337, 340, 341, 348, 349, 350. Bills
          introduced by--60, 79, 109, 128, 165, 215, 269. BIRD, OCHMIG, a senator from the county of
          Allen. Takes his seat--213. His motions--226, 255, 261, 344, 345. Bill introduced by--281.
          Bills passed into acts. A list of--358-362. BOBO, JAMES R., a senator from the counties of
          Adams and Allen. His motions 28, 115, 116, 117, 143, 144, 178, 183, 273, 279, 280, 291,
          327.  Bills introduced by--29, 193. Resolution
          submitted by--144. Bonds, internal improvement--[see Wabash and Erie Canal.] BRADLEY,
          JAMES A., a senator from the counties of Laporte and Starke. His motions--20, 27, 28, 52,
          58, 84, 107, 113, 114, 115, 141, 169, 175, 182, 184, 211, 212, 225, 226, 227, 228, 229,
          232, 233, 244, 253, 254, 264, 272, 282, 289, 291, 292, 307, 316, 326, 343, 355, 377, 378,
          400, 401, 417, 523-4. Bills introduced by--28, 53, 73, 91, 92, 95, 125, 143, 178, 185,
          211. BRITTON, LEWIS D., a representative from the county of DeKalb. His motions--86, 119,
          135, 153, 163, 214, 240, 268, 269, 277, 286, 287, 314, 320, 336, 349, 364. Bills
          introduced by--55, 60, 89, 121. BROWN, JASON B., a senator from the counties of Jackson
          and Brown. His motions 19, 20, 21, 22, 52, 53, 59, 66, 83, 94, 100, 101, 107, 108, 114,
          115, 116, 117, 122, 123, 141, 144, 145, 146, 151, 152, 167, 177, 178, 183, 184, 185, 186,
          193, 194, 195, 196, 204, 213, 229, 231, 232, 233, 234, 244, 245, 246, 250, 261, 281, 291,
          292, 298, 299, 307, 317, 318, 334, 343, 378, 480, 399, 400, 401, 444, 481, 489, 494, 523.
          Bills introduced by 28, 54, 92, 160, 233. Resolutions submitted by 21, 27, 52, 94, 107.
          Remarks on the Quorum question 381,382, 383. On the Burson and Kline Election case 393,
          394, 403, 404, 405, 439, 441, 442, 446, 247, 506-518. Speech on the Wabash and Erie Canal
          questions 73-77, 385-392, 424, 425, 430-435, 457, 459-462, 482, 483. On a bill to abolish
          the office of Agent of State 482, 483. On the Female Suffrage amendment proposition
          498-500. On the municipal taxation of bank stock 487, 488. BROWNING, W. W., a
          representative from the counties of Brown and Jackson. His motions 29, 68, 77, 108, 110,
          119, 120, 135, 148, 156, 157, 163, 164, 173, 174, 178, 186, 189, 190, 204, 206, 219, 220,
          221, 222, 230, 237, 240, 347, 248, 258, 260, 266, 267, 276, 283, 286, 294, 300, 306, 312,
          314, 319, 321, 330, 336, 346, 352, 353. Bills introduced by 29, 55, 79, 109, 112, 213,
          264, 297, 347. BRUNER, HENRY C., a representative from the county of Jennings. His motions
          25, 101, 110. BURSON, JOHN W., a senator from the counties of Delaware and Madison. Sworn
          in 18. Remarks by 19. His election contest 17-20, 22, 108, 298, 299, 307, 308, 334,
          367-376, 393-417, 435-447. The seat of the senator from Madison and Delaware counties
          declared vacant 334. BUTTERWORTH, W. W., a representative from the county of St. Joseph.
          His motions 59, 85, 126, 129, 135, 138, 139, 149, 154, 155, 163, 170, 190, 221, 230, 239,
          267, 286, 302, 306, 325, 336, 347, 350. Bills introduced by 130. C CALDWELL, FRANK D., a
          representative from the county of Clinton. His motions 25, 101, 128, 272, 186, 205, 267,
          268, 286, 302, 348. Bills introduced by 56, 164, 213, 347. Resolution submitted by 98.
          CALKINS, EDWARD, a representative from the counties of Fulton and Kosciusko. His motions
          69, 78, 127, 128, 171, 172, 173, 179, 197, 200, 215, 247, 251, 256, 269, 274, 296, 302,
          307, 332, 346, 348. Bills introduced by 61, 165. CALKINS, W. H., a representative from the
          county of Porter. His motions 60, 61, 69, 79, 86, 111, 112, 118, 127, 128, 133, 135, 136,
          155, 156, 157, 171, 187, 188, 190, 199, 205, 207, 209, 237, 239, 240, 248, 250, 256, 259,
          265, 266, 267, 276, 277, 284, 285, 286, 287, 294, 296, 306, 311, 312, 313, 314, 318, 319,
          320, 321, 322, 324, 330, 331, 332, 335, 336, 339, 340, 348, 349. His election contest 238,
          239. Bills introduced by 29, 79, 102, 109, 128, 166, 213, 265. Resolution submitted by
          239. Remarks on Dominica 61, 62. On the Drainage Law 138, 139. Speech on his
          Constitutional Convention bill 477-480. CARNAHAN, M. T., a senator from the counties of
          Posey and Gibson. His motions 21, 84, 167, 210, 211, 272, 273, 290, 343. Bills introduced
          by 54, 84, 99, 143, 168. Resolution submitted by 254. CASE, ABNER S., a senator from the
          counties of Lagrange and Noble. His motions 142, 168, 186. CAUTHORN, H. S., a
          representative from the county of Knox. His motions 86, 105, 118, 119, 157, 163, 188, 196,
          198, 199, 207, 214, 218, 221, 222, 235, 237, 239, 240, 247, 249, 250, 251, 260, 267, 282,
          295, 299, 300, 307, 310, 312, 313, 314, 318, 319, 320, 321, 323, 337, 349.  Bills introduced by 25, 102, 165, 208, 215, 265, 293.
          Resolutions submitted by 68, 69, 214, 238. His speech on the Davidson-Weakley contested
          election case 102-104. On the Wabash and Erie Canal question 337, 338. On the
          Wile-Shoenemann contested election case 470-473.CAVE, LEROY, a senator from the counties
          of Dubois, Pike and Martin. His motions 52, 232, 262, 263. Bills introduced by 54, 91,
          125, 143. Resolution submitted by 72. CAVEN, JOHN, a senator from the county of Marion.
          His motions 17, 52, 73, 82, 100, 107, 122, 145, 159, 169, 182, 184, 193, 252, 264, 272,
          290, 343, 490. Bills introduced by 95, 125, 193. Resolutions submitted by 27, 345. Speech
          on the Wabash and Erse Canal question 418-421, 433. COGGSWELL, LUKE B., a representative
          from the counties of Crawford and Orange. His motions 63, 85, 101, 108, 154, 265. Bills
          introduced by 109, 285. COLLETT, JOHN, a senator from the counties of Vermillion and
          Parke. His motions 115, 122, 150, 151,182, 194, 225, 271, 273. Bills introduced by 122,
          143, 193. Commercial Paper 178-180, 239-240. Committees, Standing 27, 57, 58, 60, 77, 78.
          CONNER, W. W., a representative from the counties of Hamilton and Tipton. His motions 62,
          86, 153, 170, 172, 206, 207, 208, 265, 283, 294, 296, 313, 318, 348. Bills introduced by
          55, 109, 214. Constitution, amendment proposed 27, 94, 95, 107. The XVth amendment to 143,
          144, 175, 176, 177, 178, 219, 236. COPNER, JOHN W., a representative from the county of
          Montgomery. His motions 29, 63, 69, 88, 110, 112, 120, 136, 197, 200, 204, 205, 207, 215,
          237, 259, 260, 267, 276, 301, 302, 312, 318, 330, 131, 335, 340, 341, 346. Bills
          introduced by 79, 101,128,129, 260, 285. Contested Elections. Senate 17-20, 22, 108, 211,
          213, 298, 299. 307, 308, 334, 367-376, 393-417, 435-447. House 67, 85, 86, 102-106, 199,
          214, 237, 238, 239, 247, 462-477, Convention, Constitutional 477-480. COX, JONATHAN, D., a
          representative from the county of Miami. His motions 68, 111, 128, 134, 135, 136, 146,
          163, 172, 187, 205, 220, 240, 249, 256, 269, 276, 294, 306, 325, 347, 366, 367. Bills
          introduced by 109, 165. CUMBACK, WILL. [See Lieutenant Governor. CUNNINGHAM, DANIEL W., a
          representative from the county of Fountain. His motions 25, 80, 89, 118, 145, 148, 164,
          171, 179, 187, 188, 189, 204, 230, 235, 258, 260, 268, 269, 284, 306, 307, 332, 348, 349.
          Bills introduced by 89, 101, 109, 121, 285. Resolution submitted by 98. CURTIS, JAMES J.,
          a representative from the county of Shelby. His motions 70, 149. D DAVIDSON, ROBERT P., a
          representative from the county of Tippecanoe. His motions 117, 147, 180,197, 207, 208,
          216, 236, 251, 266, 268, 284, 285, 299, 300, 302, 310, 335. Bills introduced by 110, 216,
          266, 331. DEFREES, JOSEPH H., a representative from the counties of Elkhart and Noble. His
          motions 63, 80, 129, 135, 136, 145, 148, 153, 154, 171, 188, 190, 214, 251, 287, 294, 301,
          333, 336, 353, 354, 364, 367. Bills introduced by 79, 89, 265. DENBO, GEORGE W., a senator
          from the counties of Harrison and Washington, His motions 21, 52, 84, 91, 94, 114, 123,
          141, 145, 150, 160, 183, 186, 194, 203, 210, 232, 235, 254, 262, 263, 264, 279, 280, 282,
          290, 291, 292, 327, 329, 343, 344, 412, 484. Bills introduced by 73, 91, 92, 150, 160,
          186, 193. Resolutions submitted by 72, 279. DEPUTY, JAMES W., a representative from the
          county of Jefferson. His motions 67, 70, 215, 302, 352. Bills introduced by 165, 324.
          DEVOL, WM. J., a representative from the counties of Boone and Clinton. His motions 68,
          78, 190, 221, 222, 247. Diagram of the Senate 6. Key to 7. House 11. Key to 10. DITTEMORE,
          WILEY E., a senator from the counties of Owen and Greene. His motions 52, 114, 116, 122,
          123, 133, 144, 145, 150, 159, 160, 175,183, 184, 185, 186, 202, 212, 280, 282, 290, 293,
          298, 345, 494, 495. Bills introduced by 54, 95, 143, 245, 281. Resolutions submitted by
          72, 116, 142. Divorce laws, 42, 44, 80, 204, 219. Text of a bill to amend 219.  DONHAM, ISIAH, a representative from the county of Vigo. His
          motion 136. DOUGHERTY, HUGH, a senator from the counties of Wells and Huntington. His
          motions 113, 142, 211. Bills introduced by 143, 150, 160, 202. Drainage Laws 137-139, 190,
          191, 246, 276, 277, 281, 286, 324, 343, 347. DWIGGINS, ROBERT, a senator from the counties
          Jasper, White, Benton, Pulaski and Newton. His motions 57, 66, 70, 72, 93, 100, 107, 108,
          115, 116, 142, 144, 150, 152, 182, 184, 192, 196, 201, 203, 204, 210, 212, 213, 225, 226,
          227, 232, 234, 244, 252, 253, 262, 263, 264, 274, 281, 282, 291, 292, 299, 307, 316, 317,
          326, 327, 328, 329, 342, 344, 345, 423, 481. Bills introduced by 84, 186, 233, 280.
          Resolutions submitted by 100. Remarks on the Wabash and Erie Canal question 429, 430, 455,
          457, 458. On the Burson and Kline Election Case 441-444. On the Female Suffrage amendment
          proposition 494, 495. E Election of Speaker of the House 23. Officers of the Senate 20,
          21. Officers of the House 23, 24. State Printer, Canal Trustee, State Librarian, &c.
          71. Laws 205-207. Agent of State 250. Trustees of Asylumns 123-9.Elections contested. [See
          "Burson, John W." and "contested elections."] ELLIOTT, JAMES, a senator from the counties
          of Fayette and Union. His motions 108, 280, 344, 435.Employes of the Senate. Their names
          94, 232. Of the House. Their names 97. F Fees and Salaries 26, 28, 53, 67, 192, 246,
          262-264, 273, 274, 279, 280, 294-296, 299-306, 211, 312, 314, 315, 354. Female Suffrage
          57, 125, 127, 130, 278, 279, 592, 293, 350, 492-500. Petition from the Woman's Suffrage
          Association 130. Fish and Game 113-115, 133-137, 253, 267, 326. FOSDICK, EDWARD W., a
          senator from the counties of DeKalb and Steuben. His motions 94, 160, 203, 263, 264, 280,
          291, 316, 317. Bills introduced by 281. Fifteenth Amendment. [See "Constitution."]
          FRANCISCO, HIRAM, a senator from the county of Jefferson. His motions 150, 201, 232, 261,
          271. Bill introduced by 143. FRIEDLEY, GEOEGE W., a representative from the county of
          Lawrence. His motions 54, 63, 108, 146, 199, 214, 235, 236, 237, 247, 248, 267, 285, 302,
          309, 318, 319, 320, 323, 336, 337, 339, 346, 349, 350. Bill introduced by 165. FULLER,
          BENONI S., a senator from the counties of Warrick and Spencer. His motions 84, 122, 158,
          169, 226, 229, 261, 264, 278, 280, 316, 318, 342, 345, 377. Bills introduced by 73, 91,
          92, 95, 143, 160. Resolution submitted by 72. FURNAS, ALLEN, a representative from the
          county of Hendricks. His motions 25, 29, 59, 119, 129, 186, 189, 196, 214, 267, 332, 333,
          335, 352. Bill introduced by 109. Resolution submitted by 59. G GALLENTINE, M. M., a
          representative from the county of Marshall. His motions 97, 164, 165. GENTRY, JAMES, a
          representative from the county of Spencer. His motion 78. GLESSNER, OLIVER J., a senator
          from the counties of Shelby and Bartholomew. His motions. 66, 100, 108, 116, 122, 124,
          142, 145, 150, 168, 169, 185, 195, 202, 203, 212, 213, 234, 245, 246, 252, 253, 154, 263,
          264, 273, 274, 280, 282, 290, 291, 292, 299, 316, 317, 326, 327, 328, 329, 344, 377, 380,
          432, 435. Bills introduced by 73, 91, 143, 193, 202 253. GOBLE, ISRAEL, a representative
          from the county of Franklin. His motions 165, 219, 324. GORDON, ANTHONY D., a
          representative from the county of Boone. His motions 62, 67, 69, 88, 127, 134, 138, 139,
          157, 163, 187, 235, 247, 260, 264, 293, 294, 296, 309, 312, 314, 315, 330, 332, 336, 339,
          346, 347. Bills introduced by 56, 109, 164. His speech on the Davidson-Weakly contested
          election case 104, 105. GORDON, WM. M., a representative from the county of Cass. His
          motions 29, 55, 86, 139, 164, 198, 285, 330, 331, 347. Bills introduced by 70, 347.  GOVERNOR'S Messages. Biennial 30-50.In relation to the
          Wabash and Erie Canal 65. Announcing the resignation of thirty-four representatives 351,
          352. Vetoing the bill reducing the salary of Agent of State 356. Pardons and remissions by
          46-50. GRAY, ISAAC P., a senator from the county of Randolph. His motions 20, 21, 52, 53,
          58, 66, 72, 107, 108, 123, 124, 142, 150, 152, 169, 177, 178, 183, 185, 195, 202, 203,
          233, 244, 245, 250, 262, 280, 282, 291, 293, 298, 316, 317, 327, 328, 342, 343, 345, 380,
          399, 431, 446, 447, 484, 488. Bills introduced by 73, 193, 253, 281. Resolutions submitted
          by 142. Remarks on the Burson-Kline Election case 411, 412, 413, 435-440, 446, 447. Speech
          on the Wabash and Erie Canal questions 425-6, 458. GREEN, JOHN, a senator from the
          counties of Tipton and Hamilton. His motions 17. 21, 27, 53, 83, 114, 115, 116, 117, 123,
          193, 194, 195, 212, 213, 228, 229, 234, 244, 252, 253, 255, 261, 262, 272, 273, 291, 292,
          307, 317, 328, 330, 344, 345, 355, 377, 378, 383, 481, 524. Bills introduced by 53, 73,
          125, 212, 245. Speech on the Wabash and Erie Canal question 81, 82, 422. On the
          Burson-Kline Election case 414. GREGG, RICHARD, a senator from the counties of Dearborn
          and Ohio. His motions 73, 93, 113, 114, 122, 192, 234, 244, 255, 344, 428, 481. Bills
          introduced by 53, 91, 233. Resolutions submitted by 73, 274. GUTHRIE, WALKER E., a
          representative from the county of Owen. His motions 70, 162, 189, 190. H HADLEY, JOHN V.,
          a senator from the counties of Hendricks and Putnam. His motions 20, 22, 27, 58, 59, 66,
          73, 99, 114, 116, 124, 141, 142, 143, 150, 152, 158, 159, 212, 234, 264, 273, 282, 292,
          317, 401, 461. Bills introduced by 53, 143, 160. Resolutions submitted by 116. Remarks on
          the Burson and Kline Election case 398, 399, 405, 406. On the Female suffrage amendment
          proposition 495-498. On the Wabash and Erie Canal question 428, 429. HAMILTON, THOMAS W.,
          a senator from the counties of Boone and Clinton. His motions 53, 83, 114, 183, 244, 428.
          Bills introduced by 122, 125, 150. HARDIN, JAMES, a representative from the county of
          Perry. His motions 24, 67, 85, 111, 196, 251, 331. HARTLEY, WM. L., a representative from
          the county of Ripley. His motions 166,213, 266, 330. HAWLEY, K. D., a representative from
          the county of Bartholomew. His motions 67, 111, 112, 128, 134, 155, 166, 200, 204, 220,
          302. Bills introduced by 109, 121. HAYNES, ROBERT P., a representative from the county of
          Daviess. His motions 29, 171, 187, 189, 198, 214, 259, 267, 268, 269, 285, 296, 303, 320,
          332, 333. Bills introduced by 109, 164, 213. HEILMAN, WM., a representative from the
          county of Vanderburgh. His motions 112, 170, 285, 310. Bills introduced by 170, 216, 266.
          HENDERSON, E., a senator from the county of Morgan and Johnson. His motions 17, 18, 20,
          52, 53, 97, 114, 116, 122, 150, 167, 183, 186, 201, 211, 227, 228, 246, 262, 263, 264,
          272, 273, 279, 282, 298, 308, 309, 316, 317, 329, 334, 344, 345, 347, 351, 355, 377, 397,
          400, 435. Bills introduced by 125, 168, 212, 281. Resolutions submitted by 20, 27, 72.
          HENDERSON, JOSEPH, a representative from the counties of St. Joseph and Marshall. His
          motions 119, 129, 170, 238, 303. Bills introduced by 216. HENDRY, WM., a representative
          from the county of Huntington. His motions 25, 165, 285. HESS, LUTHER W., a senator from
          the counties of Henry and Hancock. His motions 54, 95, 158,167, 201. HILL, BENJAMIN F., a
          representative from the counties of Decatur and Rush. His motions 216, 218.Hobbs, Barnabas
          C., Superintendant of Public Instruction. Address on the subject of Temperance 241, 242.
          HOLLAND, W. G., a representative from the counties of Switzerland and Ohio. His motions
          154, 170, 171, 172, 189, 207, 297, 312, 324, 331, 332, 339, 346. Bills introduced by 129,
          216, 285. HOOPER, ADAMS Y., a senator from the counties of Whitley and Kosciusko. His
          motions 19, 65, 66, 108, 114, 151, 169, 177, 195, 202, 204, 212, 227, 228, 234, 245, 253,
          262, 273, 298, 308, 316, 326, 327, 328, 351, 393, 417, 446, 447, 483.  Speeches on the Burson and Kline Election case 410, 411, 440,
          441. HOOKER, ROBERT P., a representative from the county of Vanderburgh. His motions 147,
          153, 170, 181, 200, 216, 303. Bills introduced by 109, 216. HUBBARD, LUCIUS, a senator
          from the counties of St. Joseph and Marshall. His motions 72, 115, 123, 158, 281, 343.
          Bills introduced by 54, 125, 168, 193, 212. HUGHES, JAMES, a senator from the county of
          Monroe. His motions 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 52, 58, 66, 70, 72, 82, 83, 84, 99, 100, 101, 107,
          108, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 123, 124, 141, 142, 144, 145, 150, 151, 152, 153, 159, 160,
          175, 177, 178, 182, 183. Obtained leave of absence indefinitely 183. Bills introduced by
          125. Resolutions submitted by 83, 123, 143,144, 153. Speech on the ratification of the
          XVth amendment 176, 177. On the Burson and Kline Election case 394, 395, 396, 398, 399,
          400, 401, 402, 406-409, 411, 412, 413, 416, 417, 435-439, 442, 445-447. On the Wabash and
          Erie Canal questions 422, 423, 425, 430, 431, 454-456, 458. Hydraulic Companies 324.
          HYNES, WOLFGANG, a representative from the county of Posey. His motions 102, 166, 180,
          181. I Insurance Legislation 274-6, 310-314. Interest on Judgments 86-88, 96, 97. Internal
          Improvement bonds [see Wabash and Erie Canal.] J JOHNSTON, ARCHIBALD, a senator from the
          county of Montgomery. His motions 20, 21, 52, 108, 113, 114, 115, 123, 141, 142, 158, 194,
          203, 211, 227, 232, 234, 254, 262, 264, 274, 329, 342, 344, 397, 412, 435, 442. Bills
          introduced by 28, 53, 54, 91, 95, 194, 203, 211. Resolutions submitted by 22, 27. Remarks
          on the Burson and Kline Election case 413, 414. On the Wabash and Erie Canal questions
          427, 428. Judges, Supreme. Text of a bill for redistricting the State for the purpose of
          electing five 73, 90, 91. Judiciary. Reorganization of 144, 145, 165, 255. K KEIGWIN,
          JAMES, a senator from the counties of Clarke and Floyd. His motions 94, 113, 114, 122,
          329, 355, 489. Bills introduced by 28, 202, 253. KENNEDY, ARCHIBALD M., a representative
          from the county of Rush. His motions 63, 67, 68, 106, 118, 137, 166, 171,189, 200, 260,
          266, 274, 275, 283, 284, 287, 295, 301,307, 312, 323, 331, 333. Bills introduced by 70,
          129, 166. KING, EDWARD, a representative from the county of Marion. Bill introduced by
          128. KIRKPATRICK, T. M., a representative from the county of Howard. His motions 109, 214,
          265, 286. KNIGHT, JOHN L., a representative from the counties of Wabash and Miami. His
          motions 63, 187, 190, 238, 276, 286, 303, 313. Bills introduced by 79, 130, 171, 216.
          LASELLE, CHARLES B., a senator from the counties of Cass and Fulton. His motions 107, 114,
          142, 143, 151, 167, 168, 183, 194, 195, 245, 262, 279, 280-9, 382, 445, 483. Bill
          introduced by 54. Resolution submitted by 53. Remarks on the quorum question 378, 379,
          380, 381.On the Burson and Kline Election case 439, 440. LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR, Will
          Cumback. His rulings 17, 18, 20, 21, 58, 70, 159, 226, 227, 228, 229, 246, 298, 299, 316,
          317, 329, 355, 377, 378, 383, 399, 400, 401, 402, 447. LINES, T. S., a representative from
          the counties of Henry and Madison. His motions 147, 156, 188, 189, 205, 208, 219, 269,
          348. Bills introduced by 70, 109 265. Liquor law 186. Temperance address by the
          Superintendent of Public Instruction 241-2. M MACK, WM., a representative from the county
          of Vigo. Elected Speaker of the House 23. His motions 23, 24, 133, 146, 148, 173, 198,
          206, 207, 218, 235, 236, 240, 256, 259, 306, 312, 313, 314, 319, 324, 330, 332, 339, 346.
          His rulings 89, 156, 157, 162, 171, 218, 220, 221, 223, 224, 230, 247, 248, 250, 260, 310,
          319, 346, 349, 350, 352, 353, 354, 356, 357, 367. His valedictory address 384. Resolutions
          submitted by 266, 501.  Speech on his joint
          resolution making gifts to Presidents a Penal offense 501-105. MAJOR, NOAH J., a
          representative from the county of Morgan. His motions 25, 63, 68, 69, 173, 186, 189, 204,
          216, 265, 285, 294. Bills introduced by 56, 128, 129,165, 265, 285, 311. MARTIN, BENJAMIN
          L., a representative from the county of Wayne. His motions 85, 96, 101, 140, 153, 208,
          266, 274. Bills introduced by 110, 129, 266. MARTIN, H. B., a representative from the
          counties of Putnam and Hendricks. His motions 25, 29, 55, 63, 70, 133, 147, 156, 157, 162,
          166, 170, 171, 187, 205, 206, 221, 222, 223, 230, 286, 248, 258, 267, 287, 294, 296, 303,
          306, 307, 313, 325, 330, 341, 346, 348, 349, 352, 354, 355, 365, 366. Bills introduced by
          29, 56, 216. Resolution submitted by 126. Speech on State claims vs. Terre Haute and
          Indianapolis Railroad 126,127. MARTINDALE, ELIJAH B., a senator from the county of Marion.
          His motions 19, 20,21, 22, 27, 52, 58, 67, 73, 81, 83, 94, 101, 108, 114, 115, 116, 117,
          123, 124, 125, 142, 145, 151, 152, 159, 167, 168, 169, 183, 184, 185, 192, 195, 204, 211,
          212, 227, 228, 229, 232, 233, 234, 244, 245, 246, 252, 253, 254, 262, 263, 264, 271, 272,
          273, 274, 278, 279, 281, 282, 291, 292, 293, 298, 299, 308, 316, 317, 318, 326, 327, 329,
          342, 343, 345, 397, 399, 400, 401, 447, 482, 484, 491. Bills introduced by 28, 53, 54, 73,
          74, 91, 92, 95, 152, 186, 202, 212, 233. Resolutions submitted by 117, 253, 271. Remarks
          on the Burson and Kline Election case 394, 395, 402, 403, 446. On the Wabash and Erie
          Canal questions 423, 424, 454, 455. MILLER, ROBERT, a senator from the counties of Miami
          and Wabash. His motions 232, 245, 271, 279, 290, 329. Bills introduced by 125, 202, 203.
          MILES, N. D., a representative from the county of Sullivan. His motions 29, 61, 69, 109,
          110, 148, 155, 206, 216, 218, 259, 264, 303, 353, 354, 356, 363. Bills introduced by 29,
          166. Remarks on the Quorum question 366. On the municipal taxation of bank shares and
          stock 485-487. On the Wabash and Erie Canal questions 451, 452. MILLIKAN, JOHN R., a
          representative from the county of Henry. His motions 146, 214, 240, 268, 284, 303. Bills
          introduced by 89, 126. MINICH, J. A., a representative from the county of Greene. His
          motions 60, 88, 133, 138, 153, 155, 156, 163, 171, 172, 181, 240, 267, 285, 286, 309, 348,
          363. Bills introduced by 89, 164, 214, 217, 284. MITCHELL, P. L. D., a representative from
          the county of Monroe. His motions 63, 68, 88, 112, 134, 135, 137, 154, 164, 187, 189, 205,
          207, 208, 215, 236, 248, 259, 265, 269, 285, 287, 294, 300, 348, 352, 353, 355, 356. Bills
          introduced by 80, 109, 215, 265, 284. MONROE, DANIEL P., a representative from the
          counties of Jefferson and Ripley. His motions 59, 79, 215, 303. MONTGOMERY, D., a
          representative from the county of Johnson. His motions 127, 156, 266. MORGAN, DANIEL, a
          senator from the county of Vanderburgh. His motions 114, 125, 142, 169, 183, 192, 202,
          232, 291, 292, 293, 345, 417, 489, 490, 491. Bills introduced by 73, 125, 143, 151, 202,
          233. Remarks on the taxation of bank shares for municipal purposes 489-491. On the Female
          Suffrage amendment proposition 493, 494. MYERS, ELAM B., a representative from the county
          of Elkhart. His motions 25, 63, 87, 153, 174, 198, 306, 354. Bills introduced by 79, 102,
          214. Municipal bank shares tax [see bank stock.] McMcDONALD, ISIAH B., a representative
          from the county of Whitley. His motions 24, 25, 26, 29, 55, 62, 86, 88, 110, 112, 117,
          119, 127, 139, 140, 445, 147, 148, 155, 156, 157, 162, 163, 164, 180, 181, 187, 188, 189,
          190, 191, 197, 198, 205, 206, 207, 208, 215, 217, 220, 224, 235, 237, 347, 258, 259, 264,
          266, 267, 269, 276, 277, 285, 286, 287, 294, 295, 297, 300, 303, 307, 309, 310, 312, 318,
          319, 320, 325, 330, 331, 332, 336, 337, 340, 446, 347, 348, 349, 350, 351, 352, 353, 364.
          Bills introduced by 89, 110, 235. Resolution submitted by 130. Remarks on a resolution to
          adjourn sine die 364, 365. On the Wabash and Erie Canal questions 452,
          453. McDOWELL, GEORGE, a representative from the counties of Wells and Adams. His motions
          138, 153, 197, 205, 208, 266, 285, 324. Bills introduced by 98, 110, 171. Resolutions
          submitted by 89, 129.  McFARLAND, A. P., a
          representative from the county of Carroll. His motions 78, 121, 213, 240, 260, 266, 268,
          306, 339, 367. Bills introduced by 121, 265. McGOWAN, W. J., a representative from the
          county of Gibson. His motions 138, 153 348. NNEFF, WILLIS G., a representative from the
          county of Putnam. His motions 23, 26, 29, 30, 50, 56, 67, 69, 78, 87, 98, 106, 112, 118,
          126, 148, 154, 155, 163, 165, 172, 174, 178, 186, 187, 188, 190, 196, 197, 199, 205, 207,
          214, 216, 218, 235, 239, 248, 258, 267, 276, 277, 284, 285, 286, 294, 395, 300, 309, 311,
          318, 320, 321, 323, 330, 331, 332, 336, 346, 348, 350, 353, 383. Bills introduced by 128,
          216, 240, 265, 311. Resolutions submitted by 24, 55, 111. Remarks on San Domingo 62. On
          the Quorum question 363, 364. On the Wabash and Erie Canal questions 448-451. Newspapers,
          25, 28, 52, 72, 112, 116, 127, 150, 160, 162, 163, 164, 165, 170, 245, 265, 279.
          NETHERTON, GEORGE A., a representative from the counties of Starke and Laporte. His
          motions 63, 77, 130, 135, 136, 137, 139, 153, 164, 187, 207, 216, 236, 243, 251, 257, 258,
          266, 267, 303, 307, 324, 340, 350. Bills introduced by 170, 266. Resolutions submitted by
          350. Speech on the Common School Law 521-2. New State House [see "State House."] O OATLEY,
          J. H.. a representative from the county of Washington. His motions 67,101, 129, 134, 164,
          189, 200, 266, 285, 340. Bills introduced by 216, 266. Officers Fees [see Fees and
          Salaries.] P Petitions. From stock holders of the Wabash and Erie Canal 65, 66. From the
          Society of Friends for amendment of the Divorce Laws 93. From the Woman's Suffrage
          Association 130. For the repeal of the Drainage law 225. For a Liquor Law 225. For
          amendment of Divorce Laws 226. From the State Temperance Alliance 241. For the suppression
          of traffic in intoxicating liquors 271. Against legalizing gravel road assessments 271.
          Petitions. For uniform Court Practice 271. For the prison reforms enumerated 226. For
          repeal of all divorce laws except for causes set forth 226. From a State Commercial
          Convention 239, 240. From the Judges of the Supreme Court 249. From the State Board of
          Education 289, 290. Postage Stamps 28, 52, 66, 141, 142. President of the Senate [see
          Lieutenant Governor.] Printer, State 101, 166. Q Quorum questions 218, 224, 226, 229, 356,
          357, 363-367, 377-383. R Railroads 38, 39, 60, 68, 79, 89, 98, 99, 101, 118, 180, 189,
          193, 194, 208, 329. Terre Haute and Indianapolis 126, 127, 128, 156, 162. RAWLES, W., a
          representative from the county of Lagrange. His motions 59, 215, 235, 256. Reporter's note
          3. RHODES, WM. P., a representative from the county of Warren. His motions 63, 79, 97,
          118, 134, 145, 147, 153, 174, 196, 200, 205, 206, 268, 269, 274, 283, 287, 312, 313, 314,
          315, 332, 339, 349. Bills introduced by 55, 60, 98, 110, 112, 129, 171, 216, 266, 285.
          Resolution submitted by 60. RICE, JAMES H., a representative from the county of Floyd. His
          motions 79, 110, 121, 165, 267, 310, 314. Road Laws 153, 154, 204, 255, 274, 344.
          ROBINSON, WM. J., a senator from the counties of Decatur and Rush. His motions 122, 210,
          244, 255, 271, 328, 344. Bill introduced by 210. ROSEBRUGH, M. K., a senator from the
          counties of Switzerland and Ripley. His motions 22, 159, 167, 183, 185, 234, 252, 263,
          264, 274, 278, 280, 281, 282, 317, 318, 328, 329, 442. Bill introduced by 281. Remarks on
          the Wabash and Erie Canal questions 426, 427. Reports. From the Committee appointed to
          select the Standing Committees of the Senate 57, 58. From the Senate Committee on Mileage
          90.  On the ratification of the XVth amendment 175,
          176. Of the Committee on Elections on the Bird and Saringhausen contest 213. Of the
          Committee to select what of the testimony in the Burson case shall be read to the Senate
          308, 309. On the Davidson and Weakley contested election case 102. On claims against the
          Swamp Land Fund 272. Of the Committee on Elections on the Wile-Shoenemann contested
          election case 463, 464. Of the Committee on the Judiciary on the Wile-Shoenemann contested
          election case 464-470. Of a bribery investigating committee 491. Representatives names and
          Post Office address 14, 16. Elect 22, 23. RUDDELL, JAMES H., a representative from the
          county of Marion. His motions 23, 24, 25, 59, 63, 68, 86, 87, 117, 119, 133, 135, 136,
          165, 171, 173, 179, 190, 197, 216, 223, 224, 235, 236, 237, 238, 240, 247, 250, 251, 256,
          260, 267, 269, 283, 296, 301, 310, 311, 313, 314, 318, 319, 320, 348, 349, 350. Bills
          introduced by 78, 89, 109, 128, 165, 215, 265. Speech on "Interest on Judgments" 96, 97.
          On the Superior Court bill 120. On the Fish bill 137. On a question of order 322, 323.
          Rulings of the President of the Senate [see Lieutenant Governor.] Speaker of the House
          [see Wm. Mack.] Rules. Amendment to Senate 66. [See volume XI page 405-8 for standing
          rules of the Senate.] S SABIN, STEPHEN C., a representative from the county of Steuben.
          His motions 80, 85, 156, 170, 172, 173, 205, 217, 218, 223, 349. Salaries [see fees and
          salaries.] San Domingo 52, 53, 60, 61-4. SANSBERRY, J. W., a representative from the
          county of Madison. His motions 64, 68, 69, 88, 118, 119, 164, 165, 170, 180, 215, 248,
          303. Bills introduced by 165, 348. SARINGHAUSEN, JOHN, a senator from the county of Allen.
          His motions 52, 72, 95, 122, 142, 143, 178. SAYERS, DANIEL, a representative from the
          county of Wabash. His motions 60, 86, 266. SCOTT, HARVEY D., a senator from the county of
          Vigo. His motions 20, 107, 115, 124, 141, 160, 183, 194, 196, 211, 228, 235, 244, 261,
          263, 281, 291, 293, 318, 327, 328, 329, 334, 377, 482, 490, 491, 524. Bills introduced by
          143, 186, 281. Remarks on the Burson and Kline Election case 397, 398, 415, 416, 417, 438.
          On the Wabash and Erie Canal questions 427, 431. Senator's names and Post Office address
          13, 14. Holding over 17. Elect 17. Mileage 90. SHOENEMANN, WM., a representative from the
          county of Laporte. His election contested 67, 199, 214, 215, 237, 462-477. Bill introduced
          by 217. SIMPSON, JOHN D., a representative from the counties of Jefferson, Clarke and
          Scott. His motions 109, 112, 127, 128, 162, 163, 164, 171,186, 189, 260, 269, 276, 306,
          349, 353, 354. Bills introduced by 215, 265, 285. Sinking Fund Investment 190, 194, 208,
          236. 250, 251, 342. SNODGRASS, JAMES P., a representative from the county of Delaware. His
          motions 69, 154, 214, 265, 306. Speaker of the House [see Wm. Mack.] Standing Committees
          [see "Committees."] Standing Rules [see "Rules."] STANLEY, HENRY C., a representative from
          the county of Noble. His motions 128, 268, 303. State House 43, 78, 79, 203, 233.
          Stationery 52, 66, 141, 142, 183. State Debt [see Wabash and Erie Canal.] STEELE, ASBURY;
          a senator from the counties of Grant, Blackford and Jay. His motions 108, 115, 141, 150,
          152, 169, 182, 195, 204, 212, 213, 125, 228, 229, 232, 233, 255, 262, 263, 264, 279, 280,
          291, 292, 298, 299, 316, 317, 318, 334, 345, 491, 500, 511, 513. Bills introduced by 73,
          122, 161, 162, 253. Speeches on the Burson and Kline Election case 405, 444, 445. On the
          Wabash and Erie Canal questions 455, 456, 458-461. STEPHENS R. C., representative from the
          counties of Martin and Dubois. His motions 55, 101, 110, 165, 265.  STEPHENSON, RICHARD R., a representative from the county of
          Hamilton. His motions 24, 25, 64, 67, 77, 101, 110, 157, 256, 277, 282, 294, 295, 296,
          312, 313, 318, 330, 339, 340. Bills introduced by 25, 59, 216, 285. Resolution submitted
          by 128. ST JOHN, ROBERT T., a representative from the county of Grant. His motions 64, 69,
          70, 79, 86, 89, 96, 101, 110, 117, 121, 129, 147, 164, 180, 190, 196, 197, 199, 205, 208,
          237, 238, 240, 260, 265, 267, 269, 275, 277, 286, 301, 303, 307, 310, 311, 340. Bills
          introduced by 29, 55, 70, 110, 121, 165, 214, 284. Speech on the Wile-Shoenemann contested
          election case 473-477. STONE, ASAHAL, a representative from the county of Randolph. His
          motions 68, 78, 85, 108, 112, 119, 129, 154, 166, 171, 178, 180, 216, 223, 230, 235, 236,
          239, 250, 260, 268, 287, 306, 314, 324, 331, 335, 346, 354. Bills introduced by 56, 79,
          98, 109, 129, 166, 216, 266. Resolution submitted by 163. STRICKLAND, WM. T., a
          representative from the county of Decatur. His motions 129, 153, 204, 217, 250, 265, 269,
          304, 313, 314. Bills introduced by 121, 213. STROUD, JOHN, a senator from the counties of
          Crawford, Orange and Perry. His motions 201, 281. Supreme Judges [see Judges.]Superior
          Courts 119, 120, 130-132, 183-185, 233. T TARLTON, CALEB B., a representative from the
          counties of Johnson and Morgan. Bill introduced by 240. TAUGHINBAUGH, WM., a
          representative from the counties of Blackford and Jay. Bill introduced by 164. TAYLOR,
          HENRY, a senator from the county of Tippecanoe. His motions 72, 95, 225, 233, 253, 254,
          263, 272, 282, 316, 429, 344, 345, 411. Bills introduced by 15, 143, 203, 245, 253.
          TAYLOR, ROBERT S., a representative from the county of Allen. His motions 67, 106, 179,
          190, 191, 196, 198, 199, 200, 205, 206, 207, 209, 220, 238, 251, 268, 274, 276, 284, 286,
          293, 295, 311, 312, 321, 325, 332, 333, 340, 341, 348, 350, 353, 356. His election contest
          247. Bills introduced by 56, 60, 89, 121, 208,284, 311, 347. Resolutions submitted by 121,
          208, 295. His speech on the Fee and Salary bill 304. TEBBS, WARREN, Jr., a representative
          from the county of Dearborn. His motions 24, 29, 59, 189, 221, 222, 235, 258, 265, 268,
          269, 306, 350. Bills introduced by 26, 29, 89, 101, 109, 165, 213, 265, 348. Resolutions
          submitted by 98, 363. V Venue, change of 195, 233, 235. 240. Votes. For Speaker of the
          House 23. For State Printer 71. For Trustees of the Benevolent Institutions 123. W Wabash
          and Erie Canal Bonds 21, 24, 27, 31-37, 65, 66, 74-77, 78, 81-83, 94, 95, 99-101, 107,
          111, 112, 116, 148, 151, 152, 153, 244, 279, 282, 310, 337-340, 385-392, 418-435, 448-462,
          481-484. Text of a bill to pay indebtedness of the State 152. Text of a bill to protect
          the Wabash and Erie Canal 161, 162. WADGE, RICHARD C., a senator from the counties of Lake
          and Porter. His motions 72, 167, 193, 213, 225, 244, 246, 279, 280, 293, 316, 343, 446.
          Bill introduced by 73. WALKER, J. D., a representative from the county of Clay. His
          motions 108, 119, 136, 162, 164, 268, 304, 347. Resolution submitted by 112. WARRUM,
          NOBLE, a representative from the county of Hancock. His motions 61, 80, 196, 240, 265,
          304. Bills introduced by 26, 56, 70, 79, 126, 269. His speech on the Fee and Salary bill
          304, 305. WASHBURN, ISRAEL B., a representative from the counties of Pulaski, Jasper, and
          Newton. His motions 89, 98, 139, 186, 196, 214, 236, 264, 269, 276, 277, 295, 309, 312,
          347, 354. Bills introduced by 56, 109, 129, 214, 216, 265. WEAKLEY, OTHO K., a
          representative from the county of Tippecanoe. His election contested 85, 86, 102-106.
          WILLIAMS, B. F., a representative from the counties of Fayette and Union. His motions 23,
          61, 63, 89, 96, 127, 171, 171, 215, 237,  276, 285,
          295, 297, 299, 305, 307, 310, 325, 348, 350. Bills introduced by 60, 127, 214, 260.
          WILLIAMS, JAMES D., a senator from the counties of Knox and Daviess. His motions 20, 22,
          52, 81, 83, 94, 95, 116, 123, 145, 169, 183, 185, 186, 194, 210, 213, 226, 227, 228, 234,
          246, 252, 262, 263, 264, 271, 272, 298, 316, 317, 326, 327, 328, 342, 343, 344, 345, 383,
          396, 397, 406, 441, 444, 446. Bills introduced by 54, 73, 143, 194, 232, 245, 281. Remarks
          on the Quorum question 381. WHITE, HENRY A., a representative from the county of
          Vermillion. His motions 64, 86, 164, 206, 236, 300, 307, 324, 335, 340. Bills introduced
          by 170, 216, 266, 269. Resolutions submitted by 189. WILSON, O. M., a representative from
          the county of Marion. His motions 23, 25, 50, 55, 63, 67, 87, 109, 119, 121, 127, 128,
          129, 133, 140, 148, 156, 162, 163, 165, 170, 190, 197, 199, 208, 214, 218, 220, 221, 222,
          223, 229, 230, 235, 236, 237, 240, 247, 248, 249, 250, 256, 257, 264, 265, 268, 274, 285,
          287, 294, 296, 299, 305, 307, 311, 312, 313, 314, 318, 319, 321, 331, 337, 340, 349, 350,
          464. Bills introduced by 79, 102, 149, 165, 215, 285. His speech on the Superior Court
          bill 130,131, 132. On the Fee and Salary bill 305. On the establishment of an Insurance
          bureau 275, 276. On his bill to strike the word "white"out of the enumeration laws 519,
          520. WOOD, MATIN, a representative from the county of Lake. His motions 56, 108, 128, 221,
          258, 269. WOOD, S. F., a senator from the counties of Fountain and Warren. His motions
          115, 145, 204, 211, 212, 353, 355, 274, 280, 289, 290, 292, 316, 344. Bills introduced by
          53, 125, 143, 160, 169, 202, 232, 281. Remarks on the Burson and Kine Elec- case 414, 415.
          WOODWARD, JOHN E., a representative from the county of Parke. His motions 59, 101, 118,
          216, 287, 324, 346. WYMER, JOHN M., a representative from the counties of Benton and
          White. His motions 78, 101, 217, 247, 266, 282, 305. Z ZENOR, PETER M., a representative
          from the county of Harrison. His motions 24, 29, 60, 63, 153, 170, 171, 174, 187, 189,
          229, 237, 247, 267, 274, 285, 287, 306, 307, 318, 419, 320, 330, 336, 337, 346, 348, 349,
          550, 365, 366. Bills introduced by 25, 60, 109. Resolution submitted by 259.
      
      
        ERRATA.
        
          Page 21--The sixteen lines at the bottom of the second column belong to the bottom
            of the first column.
          Page 29--The bill H. R. 6, was introduced by Mr. Miles, not Mr. Myers.
          Page 56--The bill H. R. 24, was introduced by Mr. Bellinger, not his colleague Mr.
            Martin of Wayne.
          Page 60--The proceedings under the heads of "RESOLUTIONS" and "DOMINICA" should
            appear on the previous page two lines before the heading "REFORM SCHOOL."
          Page 69--The resolution attributed to Mr. Browning was offered by Mr.
            Cunningham.
          Page 73--The bill S. 29, was introduced by Mr. Bobo.
          Page 128--The bill H. R. 143, was introduced by Mr. Major, not Mr. Myers.
          Page 136--The last Speaker on this page was Mr. Netherton, not "Atherson."
          Page 188--In the 13th line from the top, the words "in some cases" should appear
            after the word "difficult."
          Page 189--The bottom lines attributed to Mr. Copner, are Mr. Guthrie's.
          Page 198--In the 15th line from the top of the second column the word "county,"
            should be "country."
          Page 202--The bill S. 162, was introduced by Mr. Miller, not Mr. Collett.
          Page 212--In the 15th line from the bottom of the second column the words "could be
            obviated by," should read, "are obviated by the law."
          Page 213--See Mr. Wadge's correction on page 225.
          Page 251--In the yeas and nays Mr. Cox should be recorded as voting "aye," not
            "nay."
          Page 255--The first word in the 3d line from the bottom of the first column should
            read "viens," instead of "frame."
          Page 281--See correction of Mr. Dwiggin's remarks on page 291.
        
      

      

      
        YEAS AND NAYS--SENATE.
        
          On the manner of appointing Standing Committees, 27.
          On a motion to refer Female Suffrage petitions to a select committee, 57.
          On the minority and majority reports from the Committee to select the Standing
            Committees, 59.
          On Wabash and Erie Canal questions, 99 160.
          On adopting a proposed amendment to the Constitution, 107.
          On rejecting a bill to protect the Wabash and Erie Canal, 151.
          On rejecting a bill to adjust the State indebtedness, 152.
          On a bill regulating interest, 170.
          On a resolution concerning the ratification of the XVth amendment, 77, 78.
          On indefinite postponement of the Metropolitan Police bill, 183.
          On indefinite postponement of the bill repealing the act granting aid to Railroads,
            194.
          On the Committee report ousting Mr. Saringhausen and seating Mr. Bird, 213.
          On the passage of the Fee and Salary bill, 279.
          On inserting the word "white" before the word "female," 292.
          On the passage of a joint resolution (see page 278) for a Female Suffrage
            Constitutional amendment, 293.
          On a Committee report declaring a Female Suffrage amendment undesirable, 293.
          On a motion to reconsider a second for the privious question, 299.
          On laying on the table the minority report of the Committee appointed to select what
            portion of the testimony in the Burson case may be read to the Senate, 309.
          On allowing reading of affidavits of Mr. Burson and counsel, 334.
          On a resolution declaring the seat of the Senator from Delaware and Madison vacant,
            334.
          On a resolution to adjourn sine die 383, 524.
          On an appeal from the decision of the Lieutenant Governor on page 17 in the Burson
            case, 399.
          On a resolution requesting a Committee to report on Mr. Burson's credentials,
            435.
        
      
      
        YEAS AND NAYS--HOUSE.
        
          On the San Domingo resolutions, 63.
          On the Davidson-Weakley contested election case; to confirm Mr. Weakley in his seat,
            105; to oust Mr. Weakley, 106.
          On a resolution to discharge a Committee messenger, 110.
          On notes taxing collection fees, 119.
          On a bill to strike out the word "white" from the enumeration bill, 133.
          On the passage of a resolution [see page 126,] authorizing suit to be brought by the
            State against the Terre Haute and Indianapolis Railroad, 162.
          On a resolution censuring the Indianapolis Daily Journal, 103.
          On a proposed modification of the tariff laws, 171.
          On a motion to postpone the consideration of the Wile-Shoenemann contested election
            case, 214.
          On a motion to refer the resolutions on the ratification of the XVth amendment, 220,
            236.
          On the bill reducing the salary of Agent of State to $1,090, 236.
          On the resolution ousting Mr. Shoenemann, 237, 238.
          On the majority report from the Committee on Elections confirming Mr. Taylor in his
            seat, 247.
          On the passage of the Sinking Fund Distribution bill, 251.
          On laying on the table a city Railroad aid bill, 256.
          On the passage of the fish bill, 267.
          On a resolution in favor of graded salaries for county Auditors and Treasurers,
            &c., 295.
          On a motion to adopt the present officers fee bill 301.
          On the passage of the Fee and Salary bill, 301.
          On excusing Mr. Cauthorn from voting, 318.
          On sustaining a decision of the Chair, 323.
          On laying on the table a motion to correct the journal, 324.
          On postponing the apportionment bill, 337.
          On concurring in the Senate amendments to the bill reducing the salary of Agent of
            State, 346.
        

        
        
      
    
  
