
    ----CITATION----
        Buckingham, Henry A.. Harry Burnham, the Young Continental... .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5934 wright2-0408
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               HARRY BURNHAM, THE YOUNG CONTINENTAL.
               OR, Memoirs of an American Officer DURING THE CAMPAIGNS OF THE
                  REVOLUTION, AND SOMETIME A MEMBER OF WASHINGTON'S STAFF.
            
            BY HENRY A. BUCKINGHAM.
            
            
               New-York:
               BURGESS & GARRETT, 22 ANN-STREET.
               BALTIMORE:
               BURGESS, TAYLOR & CO.
            
            1851.
         
      
      
         
            Harry Burnham, the young Continental, or, Memoirs of an American officer during
               the campaigns of the Revolution, and sometime a member of Washington's staff
            
            HARRY BURNHAM, THE YOUNG CONTINENTAL.
            
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  THE ELM TREE TAVERN AND ITS INMATES.
                  THE REVOLUTION! A glorious word and a glorious theme for Americans. Other
                     nations may trace back their creation until history becomes lost in the mist of
                     antiquity, but with us there is no fabled story or tradition The date of our
                     existence is within the age of living men—of men who participated in its birth,
                     and who now, in the far decline of life, behold their country in a position
                     surpassing nations that have existed for remote centuries. There is something
                     in the air of freedom that builds up mighty states!
                  Of the deeds of the actors in the great contests for freedom—near to our own
                     times as that contest occurred—we know too little.—The great men of the period
                     are mouldering in their graves, and of the humbler servitors in the campaigns
                     of the revolution, here and there one survives, their existence held by a
                     tenure as frail and brief as withered leaves upon the tree tops at the approach
                     of the winter's blast. Of these old grey-headed veterans, the minds of some are
                     still as firm and faithful as when, in the early vigor of youth, they
                     shouldered the musket and marched to the field of battle. From their lips have
                     been gathered some of the incidents that will be related in this work, and from
                     many who now sleep with their fathers, other facts were obtained years ago, all
                     to be interwoven in these chapters—as faithful and stirring chronicles of the
                     "times that tried men's souls."
                  The town of New-Haven, in 1775, presented somewhat a different aspect to the
                        city of New Haven of the present day. Most of the magnificent
                     elms that now spread their broad shadows over the streets and college grounds,
                     were then striplings in growth, save here and there a magnificent patriarch,
                     coeval almost with the first settlers. The college buildings then consisted of
                     only the Chapel and Connecticut Hall, now called the South Middle College, and
                     the whole village, for it could be considered little more, clustered in rural
                     beauty around "old Yale," the alma mater,
                     even at that early day, of some of the greatest men in the thirteen
                     colonies.
                  Well, my story opens in the town of New Haven, in the colony of Connecticut,
                     the time, the month of March, 1775, and the spot, the Elm Tree Tavern, kept by
                     Jonathan Mix, a justice of the peace, captain of the train band and one of the
                     select men of the town. New Englanders are famous for the many parts they
                     assume. Squire Mix was a good specimen of a Yankee, and bore far and near the
                     title of an honest, well-meaning man. There was a great deal of bustle going on
                     in the kitchen of the inn, though it was waxing near the hour of ten at night.
                     Turkeys, wild geese, and other game were roasting and basting in an enormous
                     old-fashioned tin oven before a fire of hickory logs. Vegetables were boiling,
                     gravies making, and the steam of good things that intermingled in the
                     atmosphere of the kitchen of the "Elm Tree," would have made a hungry man think
                     of paradise!
                  "Come, Dine, don't let that turkey burn for want of bastin'—if ye dew, there'll
                     be bastin' done elsewhere. Mechitable, don't put too much salt in that gravy—it
                     ain't for Lot's wife. Keziah, run up intew the barroom and tell the Squire to
                     come down. D'ye hear?"
                  This conversation was addressed to three daughters of Africa—slaves to the
                     master and mistress of the Elm Tree, for 70 years ago slavery existed as firmly
                     in the New England colonies as it now does in the southern portions of the
                     confederacy. The mistress of the kitchen, and in fact the Squire's mistress
                     too, for it was generally remarked by town gossips that the wife was the ruler,
                     was a bustling, active body, who could do more work, move faster, and talk
                     quicker than any body else within a hundred miles of New Haven.—The worthy
                     couple had not been blessed with children, and therefore everything about the
                     inn was considered by Mistress Mix her family—beds, tables, chairs, dishes,
                     spoons, et cetera. It may as well be said, no kinder-hearted woman could be
                     found in the world, as many a poor traveller, with more appetite than money,
                     had often experienced.
                  Into the kitchen came the Squire, as soon as he had received the wife's orders
                     by the sable messenger.
                  "Well, my darlin', did you want me?" said the Squire in an humble tone.
                  "Yes, Mr. Mix,"—it was only when she was particularly good-natured that his
                        wife called him Squire—"I do want
                     you. When we've a nice supper to get up, and people pay for it as well as young
                     Mr. Fairfax does, you're sure to plump yourself right down by the bar-room
                     fire, and there, with that lazy Deacon Doolittle— I wish I was his wife for a
                     week, I'd larn him a lesson — Leftenant Grimes, he's a purty Leftenant, and
                     that idle Lawyer Higgins—and there the whole four of you get as sottish as
                     beasts over your rum flip. It's astonishing, Mr. Mix—where would the tavern be
                     if I was away?"
                  "On the same spot, darlin', I expect. But what can I dew in the kitchen, my
                     dear?"
                  "I want you to see that things are put to rights in the west room—the fire
                     blazing, and the candles lit; and see tew if that scamp Juba lays the cloth and
                     the plates right. I'll sell him to Parson Longtext when he makes an offer
                     agin—he's gettin' mighty careless of late. Then, Mr. Mix, you've got the punch
                     to make, and see that the brandy, and Jamaica, and the limes and sugar are on
                     the table."
                  "Sartain, my dear—I'll go about it at once."
                  "What time are the young gentlemen to be home, Mr. Mix?"
                  "Wall, purty shortly—I think I hear sleigh bells now, so I must buckle tew,"
                     and the Squire left the kitchen.
                  Renewed bustle now commenced in the culinary department, and the colored
                     members of the household moved with a celerity truly astonishing, under the
                     threats and coaxing of their driving mistress. Fowls were taken from the spit,
                     partridges dished, the geese and turkeys done to a charm, graced their
                     respective platters, tureens of oysters, and all the trimmings of an extensive
                     supper, were soon ready for carrying to the supper room.
                  Outside, the weather was anything but pleasant, however cheering things looked
                     indoors at the Elm Tree. It was a blustering March evening; the snow covered
                     the earth a couple of feet in depth, and a sleety rain was falling rapidly from
                     the sky. It was a night when most people would have thought that venturing out
                     for pleasure or enjoyment displayed singular taste. Yet, on the night in
                     question, a roystering party of twenty or more collegians, with all the
                     enthusiasm of merry youth, were out in half a dozen sleighs, on a frolic, and
                     it was for them, on their return, that the supper was preparing at the jolly
                     Elm Tree Tavern.
                  In the bar-room of the tavern, each with a mug of flip* in his hand, and conversing
                     about the weather, the times, the probable course that Great Britain would
                     pursue with the colonies, and other matters, sat the aforesaid Deacon
                     Doolittle, Lieutenant Grimes, and Lawyer Higgings, held by Mistress Mix in such
                     particular estimation. To tell the truth, they were rather given to the
                     propensities named by the angry hostess to her husband.
                  
                     *Flip was the great winter drink in New
                        England at that period. It was made of rum, beer, eggs and sugar,
                        spiced.
                  
                  "Its dreadful stormy, Deacon," said the Lieutenant, playing with the handle of
                     a flipiron that stuck in the fire before him.
                  "Dreadful, dreadful,' answered the Deacon, who was a man of few words, and
                     especially noted for his brief prayers at all meetings and religious
                     entertainments.
                  "Do you think, Deacon," asked Lawyer Higgins, who was a politician of the
                     period, "that Lord North will really find a majority of parliament to back him
                     in coercive matters against the colonies?"
                  The Deacon took a long draught at his mug of flip, sat it down on the table
                     with quite a jar, deliberately refilled his pipe, and spoke:
                  "Sarcumstances, Squire Higgins, (all lawyers are Squires,) varies
                     partick'larly; for my own part, I'm kinder inclined to think he mought carry
                     parliament, and then he mought not."
                  The Deacon's answer was "non-committal" in every respect, for there were rumors
                     about that he was rather more of a tory than a whig, the leading names of
                     parties at that period in the colonies, and New Haven was eminent for the
                     whiggish propensities of its inhabitants. The Deacon, therefore, did not wish
                     to appear enlisted one way or the other in his opinions.
                  "I reckon," said Lieutenant Grimes, "that General Gage ain't gettin' such
                     reinforcements inter Boston, unless he's goin' to make a desperait move some
                     way. In case he should," continued the soldier, putting himself in a military
                     attitude, "I guess he'll find some of the Canada war boys ain't forgot the use
                     of their muskets, nor Put and Wooster tew old to see sarvice yet awhile."
                  The Lieutenant had served in Putnam's provincial corps during what is now
                     called the "old French War," and left the service after the English, with the
                     aid of the colonies, had driven the French out of Canada. He had never risen
                     higher than a sergeant in the campaign, but had been chosen a Lieutenant in one
                     of the train bands of militia in New-Haven. He was quite an oracle in military
                     matters, because he had seen service.
                  "I think you was present at the taking of Quebec when Wolfe fell, Lieutenant?"
                     said the lawyer.
                  "Yes, I was on the heights of Abram, and not more'n twenty feet off, when Wolf
                     got his last wound."
                  "It was a bloody fight, Lieutenant."
                  "You may well say so, I reckon, Squire. I was sarvin' as a volunteer in the
                     Royal Americans that day, and a cannon shot from Montcalm's Artillery, took off
                     the heads of a dozen men in the platoon ahead o' me, clean as you'd mow down
                     clover heads. Oh! it was a bloody day."
                  There was a noise heard in the passage-way or entry leading from the street
                     into the barroom, as if some one was shaking off the snow from his feet and
                     garments. In a moment after the door opened and a person entered, who was
                     destined, a few years after, to play a part in his country's history that will
                     render his memory infamous to all future generations. He was of a medium
                     height, his figure well made, with a promise of corpulence.—His hair,
                     complexion and eye were dark, the nose well cut and aquiline. The expression
                     around his mouth denoted sarcasm, with a touch of cruelty, and the compressed
                     lips showed plainly that he was a man of great decision and firmness of
                     character. His age was about thirty-five, and his dress bespoke him somewhat of
                     a beau of the period. It was BENEDICT
                        ARNOLD!*
                  
                  
                     *Benedict Arnold lived at this period in New
                        Haven, and kept a druggist and book-store. His old sign is still preserved.
                        He commanded the company of Governor's Guard, and when the news of the
                        battle of Lexington reached New Haven, he marched with his company to
                        Boston. This was about a month after the events here narrated.
                  
                  The Deacon, the Lieutenant, and the Lawyer rose at once and greeted "Captain
                     Arnold" with much consideration, for Arnold was at this time a man of some
                     importance in New Haven. He could be sociable, sometimes very 
                        familiary
                        familiarly
                      so, in any company, and on this occasion he appeared inclined to be
                     quite merry.
                  "Where is Squire Mix, that prince of landlords? Here, Juba, you Numidian king,
                     let your majesty make me a mug of imperial flip. At it at once, John."
                  The black started himself about the task with alacrity, and soon handed the can
                     or mug to Arnold, who after taking a hearty potation, swore that John was the
                     monarch of flip makers, though rather darker than strict beauty desired in a
                     monarch. "Mine host," Squire Mix, soon made his appearance, when Arnold,
                     without giving time for any salutation, on the part of the tavern keeper,
                     exclaimed:—
                  "Mix, my 
                        Christain
                        Christian
                      friend, not a word until you answer me—is the supper almost ready? I
                     smell its delightful fragrance even here, and Mrs. Mix is the very nosegay of
                     cooks. Frank Fairfax sent me a note that himself, Burnham, Morris, and some
                     dozen more of the jolly college lads, where to have a capital supper at the Elm
                     Tree to-night, and here I am, you see, at early roll-call."
                  It may be as well to state that Arnold was an epicure, and during the war lived
                     extravagantly. His extravagance was the first step, after his marriage with
                     Miss Shippen, that caused his downfall.
                  "The supper, cap'n, is ready for the table as soon as the folks get here tew
                     eat it."
                  "Why, where are they?"
                  "Oh, on a slayin' frolic as far as Milford, or thereabouts. I guess they'll be
                     here purty quick neow."
                  The sound of bells was faintly heard in the distance, and Mix opened the door
                     and listened.
                  "They're not far off, Cap'n—I hear their merry shouts. It's well the college
                     faculty ain't abread tew-night, or they'd take the youngsters tew task."
                  In a few moments half a dozen sleighs drove up to the door, and about a score
                     of young men, in the flush of youth and health, rushed into the bar-room, noisy
                     with the exuberance of animal spirits, always found at twenty.
                  "Ah, Fairfax, Burnham, Morris, and the rest, how are ye? I'm glad to see ye,
                     you jolly dogs," and Arnold shook hands with them all."
                  "Now, landlord Mix, bring in your supper—we are as hungry as the wolves of
                     Bythnia, and ten times more dangerous unless you give us food," said the young
                     man whom Arnold had 
                        adressed
                        addressed
                      by the name of Fairfax."
                  "This way, gentlemen, to the west room," and marshalled by the landlord and
                     Juba, they reached the supper room.
                  After a mutual pledge all round of smoking punch, to keep off the cold, and to
                     give them an appetite, (there was not a temperance society in vogue seventy
                     years ago, reader,) the supper was brought in and placed on the table, under
                     the control of the good landlady, who, after seeing all things rightly
                     arranged, withdrew under 
                        congtatulations
                        congratulations
                      from the company, for the charming appearance presented of fish,
                     flesh and fowl, and the savory scent which arose, richer than Arabian
                     perfumes.
                  "Now, gentlemen, choose your seats. I sit here. Arnold, fall in; remember
                        satis superque—our good landlord has given
                     us a full table—such as Frank Fairfax always likes to give his friends and
                     company." They all seated themselves, and commenced an attack upon the viands
                     in earnest.
                  I shall now proceed to describe three of the young men whose names will figure
                     more or less prominently throughout these chapters. The young man who sat at
                     the head of the table, was Francis Fairfax, from one of the old patrician
                     families of Virginia. He was a member of the senior class of Yale college, and
                     his academic course was nearly finished; but he was now to return to his
                     paternal home in Virginia, by order of his father, one of the leading patriots
                     of his native colony, who, perceiving the gathering cloud, had views in the
                     military line for his son. The supper was given by young Fairfax to some of his
                     college associates, on the eve of his departure for Virginia. The age of
                     Fairfax was a little over twenty; his personal appearance attractive, and he
                     possessed all the warm, ardent and generous feeling for which most of his
                     countrymen are famed.
                  The young man who sat on his right was his most intimate—his classmate and his
                     chum: of the same age, they had entered college together at the same time, and
                     scarcely a week had elapsed when they became so attached that they were either
                     called the Castor and Pollux or the Orestes and Pylade of old Yale. This was
                     HARRY BURNHAM. In countenance he differed much from Fairfax. The latter was of
                     dark complexion, hair and eyes, with features singularly beautiful, yet at
                     times expressing almost sternness when excited.—Burnham, on the contrary, was
                     of light florid complexion, hair of chestnut, and the expression of his face
                     attractive, for when you looked upon it, sincerity and frankness were written
                     as plainly as the lines upon a dial. A physiognomist would have said that
                     Fairfax was of Norman and Burnham of pure Saxon descent. Be that as it may,
                     never did two friends love each other with greater devotion.
                  On the left of Fairfax sat another friend, but differing somewhat in appearance
                     from his classmates. He was of the same age, but very short in stature, with a
                     head of singular large proportions for his body. But oh! it was a fine head. The forehead broad, over which hung
                     thick short black curls—the students wore no powder—an eye beaming with wit,
                     and then the lower part of the face so mixed up with mirth,—denoted that the
                     owner of the head was a true son of Momus. Never was there a kinder or more
                     jovial heart than beat in the breast of Dick Morris, though he had a slight
                     hump on his back, and one leg was shorter than the other.
                  The rest of the company, with the exception of Arnold, were college associates
                     of the three young men described. Blessed with good appetites, which a long
                     ride in the snow storm had not lessened, but little was said when the bountiful
                     supper was under discussion, for the tongue, be it ever so eloquent, must bow
                     occasionally to the palate.
                  At length there was a cessation of hostilities upon the viands, and punch, and
                     wine, those creature of volubility were brought in profusion upon the
                     table.
                  "Now, my lads," said Fairfax, "for a little joviality into the small hours. All
                     of us will never meet again, then remember to-night with Horace,— 
                        
                           Siccis Omnia nam dura Deus proposuit; neque
                           Mordaces a liter diffugiunt solicitudines;
                        
                      so fill up for the sake of Bacchus and fun."
                  "Mr. President of the Bully Club,"* said Mr. Morris, "I object to any Latin, Greek,
                     Hebrew, Chaldaic, or Arabic on this occasion. Send Horace to the shades,
                        facillis decensus Averni!"
                  
                     *The Bully Club was an association of
                        students of ancient date; the baton of office a club won from the townsfolk
                        in combat at a remote period.
                  
                  "Dick Morris, I am omnipotent here, so give us a patriotic song of your own
                     composing, for your insolence in interfering with my functions."
                  "A song from Morris" was the universal cry.
                  "Well, well, since I'm christened the 'Swan of Yale,' though rather of the crow
                     order—here goes,—'tis my last communion with the muses, and Mars in
                     particular:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              THE BLACK COCKADE.†
                              
                              
                                 †The black cockade was the
                                    emblem of the patriots at the commencement of the
                                    revolution.
                              
                              
                                 Ho! lads, put on the black cockade
                                 And follow the rolling drum,—
                                 The battle field be our parade,
                                 And our cry, to the Britons come!
                                 St. George's Cross, that proudly waves
                                 O'er many a land and sea,
                                 May be the guide of hireling slaves,
                                 But not the flag for me.
                              
                              
                                 The Britons boast their Azincour
                                 Their Blenheim and Poitiers,—
                                 They'll win no laurels on our shore
                                 Like those of by-gone years.
                                 Our land was made for freedom's race—
                                 Free mon we'll live or die;
                                 And curses on the dastard's face
                                 Who from the foe shall fly.
                              
                              
                                 Ho! up New England's might of years,
                                 Strike as you did of yore—
                                 Ho! up Virginian cavaliers,
                                 Protect your native shore!
                                 Then, lads, put on the black cockade.
                                 And follow the rolling drum,—
                                 The battle-field be our parade,
                                 And our pride, "To the Britons come!"
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  A general cheer followed as Morris concluded his song; the students, it is
                     notorious, were great advocates of liberty at the opening of the Revolutionary
                     War.
                  Juba entered the supper room with a letter, which he handed to Burnham. The
                     latter recognised the hand-writing with emotion—his countenance lighted up as
                     he read its contents. At length he sprung from his seat, clasped Fairfax by the
                     hand, and exclaimed, in a joyous tone:
                  "Jubilate! I am to follow the drum—my father has consented. Euclid, Logic, and
                     Greek, go to the dogs: I am now to study Vauban and Turenne!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  "Read, read the letter, Burnham, aloud at least such parts as are not private,"
                     cried Fairfax, in which he was joined by a dozen voices.
                  "It is a noble letter from my good old father, and there is not a line of it
                     but you shall hear. It is him all over. 'Lend me your ears' awhile," and he at
                     once read aloud to the merry company his parent's letter.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 OAKDALE, March 14th, 1775.
                              
                              MY DEAR BOY,—I intended to have written to you more than a week
                                 ago, in fact as soon as I received your letter of the 4th, but my
                                 right hand will not obey the behests of the brain at all times, for
                                 which I have to thank the attack on Ticonderoga, under the orders
                                 of that stupid fool, Abercrombie.* God forgive me,
                                 but I never can speak of him with any degree of satisfaction.
                              
                                 *General Abercrombie commanded
                                    the army destined to take 
                                       Ticonderogo
                                       Ticonderoga
                                    , in the 'old French war,' but was driven from the
                                    siege through his own imbecility, with great loss. It was in
                                    this campaign that Lord Howe fell, and the provincials
                                    distinguished themselves so bravely,—Stark, Putnam, and
                                    others.
                              
                              Your mother has at length consented to your coming home,
                                 preparatory to entering the army, which I now see has got to be
                                 raised in the Colonies from Maine province down to our southern
                                 neighbors in Georgia. Two days ago my old brother soldier, Colonel
                                 Putnam, wrote me; he says that in his neighborhood two or three
                                 regiments have been raised, and stand now pledged for future
                                 service for the colonies. Very good. The news makes my heart feel
                                 young again, but alas! with a right arm disabled, a ball through my
                                 left hip, which every damp day informs me of, I can do no active
                                 service.
                              But I have done something. The young men of the town under my
                                 advice have organized themselves into a company—I should rather say
                                 battallion, for they number over one hundred and fifty men, and
                                 they train under my directions twice a week this cold weather in
                                 the new barn I had built last winter. A capital place, and an old
                                 captain of the 69th Royal Americans, like myself, should know
                                 something about training men.
                              You have been elected ensign, and Governor Trumbull has sent me
                                 your commission. The lads first chose you Major of the battallion,
                                 but this I would not consent to—I want you to commence at the
                                 lowest commission in the service, and work your way up by
                                    real merit, after your country calls for your aid.
                                 I am an old man, and know something of what was due to another. My
                                 old Ensign of the 60th, John Chester, is to be the Major of the
                                 battallion. He did gallant service all through the war in
                                 Canada.
                              I have written to President Daggett,* my old college
                                 and class-mate, that I have duty for you of a sterner character
                                 than reading Euripides, Sophocles, Cicero de Oratore, or even the
                                 Anabasis, (I have not quite forgot the classics, my dear boy,) and
                                 therefore I wish you to return at once with Ki Lane, the bearer,
                                 who comes to you with the sleigh. Ki has been chosen the first
                                 Sergeant of your company, and will do honor to the whole
                                 battallion. Although your mother's health is somewhat feeble, it is
                                 better than it was during the winter. Expecting to see you within a
                                 day or two, I am as ever, my dear boy,
                              
                                 Your affectionate father,
                                 RALPH BURNHAM.
                              
                              
                                 *The acting President of Yale
                                    College at that period.
                              
                           
                           
                              P. S. I forgot to tell you that I have thrown up my life pension of
                                 ¥150 per annum, granted me by the war office, London, for my wounds
                                 and services in Canada and at Quebec. I am an American heart and
                                 soul, and would rather starve than receive a penny from the enemies
                                 of the colonies under any circumstances. Thank God, I have the old
                                 homestead to live upon, come what may.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "Capital, Burnham, capital—such is the spirit throughout the colonies," said
                     Fairfax, as his friend concluded the letter. "We are destined to be companions
                     in the conflict that must ensue, as sure as the sun will rise to-morrow. Fill
                     up, lads, fill up, I have a toast to propose."
                  The glasses were filled.
                  "I give," said Fairfax, "the health of Captain Ralph Burnham, of the colony of
                     Connecticut. The gallant soldier at Ticonderoga and Quebec in the service of
                     England years ago—the friend of his country in 1775."
                  Cheers upon cheers followed the toast, and Burnham felt the tears rush to his
                     eyes at the mention of the name of his honored parent—he could not say a word,
                     and he felt relieved when the door of the supper room opened, and a well known
                     form entered, one who had been his friend from early childhood, although there
                     was some ten years difference of age
                  The new comer stood at least six feet four inches in height, of slender
                     proportions apparently, but yet athletic and powerful in an extraordinary
                     degree. What he lacked in flesh he made up in bone and sinew—he stooped
                     slightly, the consequence of his great height, and the necessity, which had
                     become habit, of bending his body when he entered the doors of a dwelling, His
                     countenance was good—the expression of his features intelligent, and strongly
                     marked with good nature. He glanced at the company for a moment, and then
                     strode rapidly up to Burnham.
                  "Why, Harry, I'm amazing glad to see you. I didn't wait for ye to send down,
                     though I allow I hadn't expected to see such company. All college boys, I
                     s'pose, so I hope I don't give no offence."
                  Burnham clasped the hand of his humble friend with deep emotion, for he knew
                     that there lived in the world no kinder being than Ki Lane, his father's head
                     man about the farm, one who had been reared to manhood from the age of six,
                     when left a homeless orphan, by his parent, and who would lay down his life in
                     a moment to preserve that parent, if necessary.
                  "Offence, Ki!" said Burnham, looking him steadily in the eye. "When I am
                     offended at him who bore me on his back a thousand times when a child—who
                     taught me to ride, to swim, to shoot, at an older age—who once saved my life
                     from the horns of an infuriated bull, by a feat of daring and strength that
                     astonished all who saw it—when I am offended at such a man, I must indeed
                     become degraded in mind and memory. Gentlemen, this is my friend,
                     Hezekiah Lane—Fairfax, you have heard me speak of him hundreds of
                     times."
                  "I have, and right glad am I to see him. Sit down, Lane, and enjoy yourself. Be
                     one of us to-night. My God! I thought our mountaineers of Western Virginia,
                     were some of them 
                        Goliahs
                        Goliaths
                      in stature, but you beat them."
                  "Some of us Connecticut boys are tolerably sized," replied Ki. "I'm only a
                     small sample."
                  "Excuse me, but are there really any longer lanes in Connecticut?
                     asked the joker, Morris.
                  Ki, who was as kind in heart as he was extensive in stature, bore the jokes of
                     his young and giddy companions in good part, and his dry humor occasionally let
                     out, soon made him a great favorite with all at the table.
                  "What's the news at Oakdale?" inquired Arnold—"the old veteran I know is in
                     correspondence with the leading patriots in Boston."
                  "Well, the old gentleman had two letters the day I came away—one from Samuel
                     Adams and the other from Governor Trumbull. Things are lookin' bad. Gage is
                     gettin' troops into Boston every day, and matters will soon come to a point one
                     way or t'other."
                  "A men!" said Arnold, solemnly.
                  It is a remarkable fact, that at the commencement of the revolution, and up to
                     the period of the trial of Arnold for peculation and oppression while in
                     command of Philadelphia, there could be no doubt of the purity of his
                     patriotism. Brave to a fault—an able soldier—quick in decision at council, it
                     seems as if after all there should be as much pity for his fall as there is
                     contempt for his memory.
                  "Regiments and minute men are formin' all over the colonies," continued Ki;
                     "all the powder and spare ball are collectin' by the committee of safety, and
                     the Continental Congress in Philadelfy has sent orders to buy up all the
                     saltpetre, brimstone and lead in the country."
                  All listened to what Ki said, in his blunt way, eagerly. The times were
                     stirring and dangerous, and no one knew what a day might bring forth.
                  "I suppose some of you collegians will volunteer unteer to march with me towards Boston with the
                     Governor's Guards, when the time comes," said Arnold.
                  "Yes," replied Burnham, "I know they will—as for myself and Ki here, we shall
                     be on the route before you. Fairfax yonder will be far off in Virginia, and
                     will not be able to aid his Yankee brethren."
                  "Say you so," replied he, "Virginians may be before Boston with the best of
                     you.—Let Gage dare to march out of Boston, and see if the South will not be
                     there to stop his progress."
                  Little did any one present then think that what he said was prophetic.
                  "Come, come," said that merry-hearted Morris, "we are getting too gloomily
                     patriotic. I'm going to give a lively song about the famous Boston tea-party.
                     Listen, friend Lane. I always bore the last comer with my warblings. Give the
                     chorus a blast, boys:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              TAXATION ON TEA.
                              
                                 Taxation on tea! was the cry through the land,
                                 King George had declared we should drink it,
                                 But Boston soon furnished a snug little band,
                                 Determined in ocean to sink it.
                                 They met in the night, and in Indian disguise
                                 Soon accomplished the deed without slaughter;
                                 And when he asked for the reason, they answered thus wise—
                                 "We are mixing the tea with the water."
                                 
                                    Chorus—Then fill up the bowl,
                                 While we merrily troll,
                                 Here's down with taxation on tea!"
                              
                              
                                 Our women, so long a tea-drinking race,
                                 Have declared they will drink it no longer;
                                 Though a cup of good tea is quite good in its place,
                                 Their love for their country is stronger.
                                 We will not be taxed by kings, commons, or lords,
                                 'Tis a right we can never surrender;
                                 Should our country be filled by their pillaging hordes;
                                 She will not want sons to defend her.
                                 
                                    Chorus—Then fill up the bowl,
                                 While we merrily troll,
                                 "Here's down with taxation."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  The students made the old Elm Tree ring again with the 
                        choros
                        chorus
                     , and it was well for them that the storm without rattled equally
                     loud, or the staid and quiet people of New Haven would have thought a legion of
                     Free Companions had invaded their town. All enjoyments must have an end. It was
                     waxing somewhat beyond the noon of night, when Fairfax proposed breaking up. He
                     addressed his associates in a few words, feelingly and to the point—reminded
                     them of the pleasant days they had spent together in the academic groves of
                     Yale, that they might never meet again at the convivial board,—in college they
                     certainly should not,—and closed by saying that whenever their country might
                     call for their services, he trusted there was not one but would be willing to
                     lay down his life, if necessary, in the defence of the thirteen united
                     colonies.
                  With but one exception, there was not a dry eye among the
                     hearers.
                  The students separated.
                  Of that little band, fifteen served their country in various capacities during
                     the revolution. Of the fifteen, six sealed their devotion with their lives.
                  THERE WAS BUT ONE TRAITOR! And that was the invited guest!
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  The next morning, Fairfax and Burnham met, to part. For over three years, they
                     had known each other's inmost thoughts, and now when the hour of separation
                     came, for aught they knew forever, there was something of a huskiness of tone
                     in voices usually given to hilarity and joy.
                  The carrier of the mail that passed through New Haven three times a month from
                     Boston to New York was than waiting in his sleigh (it would hold some four
                     passengers, a large number in those days,) for Fairfax, who lingered in front
                     of the Elm Tree, grasping the hand of Burnham, as if unwilling to let go. The
                     mail-driver, tired at length of waiting, gave a sharp final blast on his horn,
                     intimating that passengers who went with him must at once or remain.
                  "Farewell, Fairfax; we must part," said Burnham, with deep emotion, "but we
                        shall meet again. Go! my heart shall ever be with you; distance
                     cannot break asunder the ties of affection that unite us."
                  Fairfax made no reply; he had not voice for utterance, but he gave his friend
                     one look that had more eloquent meaning to Burnham than any language could
                     give. He then sprang into the sleigh, which drove rapidly off, and waved his
                     hand till lost in the distance.
                  In an hour afterwards, another sleigh drove up to the door of the Elm Tree
                     Tavern, in which was seated Ki Lane. Burnham's baggage was speedily placed
                     therein, and he himself soon appeared and took his seat. He had bidden farewell
                     to all his college associates, President Daggett and his tutors, and three
                     cheers saluted him from the students, as the sleigh turned off in an opposite
                     direction from that taken by Fairfax.
                  Oakdale, the native place of Burnham, was on the western banks of Connecticut
                     river, near its mouth. It was then in the county of New London, but after the
                     revolution a portion of the county was taken off, and is now called Middlesex.
                     The town of Oakdale was one of the oldest in the county, settled about the year
                     1680, by men of character from England, who left their native land to enjoy in
                     a far off wilderness that freedom which, in the commencement of the troublesome
                     times between Charles I. and his parliament, were denied them.
                  As one of the chief settlers of Oakdale, the remote ancestor of Capt. Ralph
                     Burnham left an extensive estate, but in the lapse of generations the property
                     had dwindled down to a few hundred acres and a dilapidated old mansion-house,
                     where the father of Harry lived in peace and comfort on what his farm produced,
                     and the possession of ¥150 sterling, allowed him by the English government
                     after he resigned his commission in the 60th Royal Americans, in consequence of
                     wounds received in service. He served gallantly in the campaigns on the
                     frontier from 1755 to 1760, and a wound received at the taking of Quebec
                     rendered him unfit for further service.
                  He was a fine old veteran of sixty, beloved by his neighbors, who had sent him
                     to "General Court" as long as he would serve, and in cases of difficulty
                     between any two inhabitants of Oakdale, about settlement of property or other
                     matters, the first proposal was, "Leave it to the old Captain," and it was a
                     rare case that he did not settled to the satisfaction of all parties. Indeed,
                     an attorney, who had stationed himself in that part of the country, found 
                        himelf
                        himself
                      in a state of starvation after a residence of a little more than a
                     year, having had but one suit during that time, and this was settled the day
                     after he received his retaining fee, by the intervention of the Captain, "to
                     save two fools from the clutches of one rogue," as he himself said.—The poor
                     attorney waited upon him, explained his situation, and asked, with tears in his
                     eyes, if "a professional man was thus to be deprived of his honest mode of
                     living."
                  "Honest mode of living!" said the old veteran, "where one man lives by the
                     quarrels of others, there can be no honesty. If you are really in want, here
                     are five guineas for you, and it is my advice as your well-wisher, to change
                     your kind of business or else leave the neighborhood and colony as soon as you
                     can."
                  The attorney accepted the guineas, and went off for parts unknown.
                  From the time of the passage of the stamp-act up to the period written of, he
                     had been firm, ardent, and unflinching on the side of his country. He was in
                     correspondence with nearly all the leaders in New England, and his influence in
                     his own colony was by no means small. He had advised the raising and training
                     of regiments to be ready for the times when arms must be taken up for the
                     defence of the country, or, as he wrote to Governor Trumbull: "I know that war
                     must come some day—it is idle to suppose that we at this side of
                     the Atlantic are always to be subjects of Great 
                        Britan
                        Britain
                     —no, it cannot be—and the blow may be as well struck in our day as by
                     another generation; we, God knows, have ample cause."
                  The wife of the old Captain was but a few years his junior. Her health was
                     delicate, and had been for a long time. She was of mild and generous feelings,
                     and her affection and love for her husband and her son were strong as nature
                     could make them. Harry was the only survivor of four children—the only one in
                     fact who had been reared to manhood. It was not strange, then, that she loved
                     intensely the last of her offspring.
                  It was piercing cold as the sleigh which contained Burnham and his gigantic
                     companion, Ki, swept along towards Oakdale. But few words passed between them
                     for a long time. Harry's heart was too full of the events of the last two
                     days—his withdrawal from college—the separation from his companions, and then
                     his approach towards home, with thoughts of what the future was to bring forth,
                     all combined to make him silent. It was getting near dark when they entered the
                     well-remembered road which Harry recognised as the outskirts of Oakdale. On one
                     side lay the yesty foaming Sound, the shores of Long Island giving a dim
                     outline, like a pencil mark, at the distance of thirty miles off on the arm of
                     the ocean. Skirting the road was a plantation of oaks and other trees, their
                     leafless branches covered with snowy mantles, while here and there an evergreen
                     presented its striking contrast amid the snow, like the freshness of youth
                     surrounded by the emblems of age.
                  Soon the steeple of the principal church rose in view, and Harry's eyes
                     glistened with eagerness as he looked towards a small two story mansion near
                     the church, evidently the parsonage house. As they neared it, no smoke was seen
                     ascending from its chimneys, and the blinds were closed.
                  "Where is Dr. Manners?" inquired Burnham, in a quiet tone.
                  "Oh," replied his companion, "you know what a rank Tory he was, as most of the
                     high churchmen*
                     be. Well, some three years ago, he preached such a sarmon about treason that it
                     made a mighty talk, and one day he sailed off suddenly in a sloop for Boston,
                     saying that he 'loved his God and honored the king' too much to preach in such
                     a rebel place as Oakdale—so he's gone for good. He was a right clever man, but
                     mighty Toryish."
                  
                     *Most of the Episcopalian clergymen in New
                        England, at the breaking out of the revolution, took part with the mother
                        country. It was not unreasonable that they did so at that period.
                  
                  Burnham felt at once a void in Oakdale. Dr. Manners had prepared him for
                     college, and the bright blue eye, the rosy cheek, and the merry laugh of "his
                     little wife" and school-mate, Mary Manners, appeared vividly before him. "The
                     Rose of Oakdale," as she was called in the village, had been transplanted.
                     Burnham sighed, for he loved the flower.
                  In ten minutes after passing the parsonage house, the sleigh stopped before a
                     stone mansion, built a hundred years before. Burnham sprang from the sleigh,
                     entered the house, and in a moment was clasped in the arms of his mother, while
                     his father grasped his hand with a hearty shake of joy. The night passed away
                     in such conversation as might be supposed between parents and a son who had
                     been separated for a lapse of time.
                  The next morning Burnham's military duties commenced. His father, who was as
                     precise as a drill sergeant in his facing, steps, and handling the firelock
                     according to the discipline of that day, carried him thoroughly through the
                     first rudiments of his manual. This occupied the first week. Meanwhile April
                     came in, the snow disappeared, and Spring, with her mild, balmy days, opened
                     upon the scene.
                  Three times a week the volunteers of Oakdale paraded on the meeting-house
                     green, and went through their evolutions. Being mostly the sons of farmers,
                     they were all young men of some means, and a uniform was adopted, consisting of
                     the plain three-cornered hat of the day, mounted with a black cockade and white
                     feather, a blue coat, with facings of undyed cloth, and breeches and gaiters of
                     the same. With the exception of two or three of the officers, not a man was
                     over thirty.
                  On the night of Thursday, April 20th,†
                     
                        †The battle of Lexington was fought about
                           daylight on the 19th of April, 1775.
                     
                      1775, Burnham was sitting in his
                     room, writing to his friend Fairfax in Virginia. A faint light gleamed through
                     the window, he rose, and looked out. On the opposite shore of Lyme, towards New
                     London, a flame ascended from the top of a lofty hill—soon another shone upon
                     the darkness of the night—the BEACON FIRES WERE BLAZING THE SIGNALS OF WAR! He
                     rushed from the room, seized a lantern which stood ready prepared, and in a
                     second was making his way towards a hill at no great distance, where the
                     faggots were already heaped up for burning. He met three or four of his
                     companions on the same errand—they reached the spot together. Burnham applied
                     the torch, and in a moment the beacon was shooting its ruddy glow far up into
                     the heavens! Presently, on toward Killingworth, and Guilford, other beacons
                     answered back the signal, and in the space of an hour, the whole colony was lit
                     up with beacon fires.
                  THE BATTLE OF LEXINGTON HAD BEEN FOUGHT! THE REVOLUTION HAD COMMENCED!
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  THE MARCH TO BOSTON.
                  All night the drums beat to arms at Oakdale, and from far and near the
                     volunteers crowded into the town. Their quarters were in the old Presbyterian
                     Meeting House, whose pastor, though his head was now covered with the white
                     hair of seventy winters, breathed the fire of patriotism with all the ardent
                     feelings of a youth of twenty. His prayers always closed with a hope "that God
                     would gird the sword of Gideon upon the thigh of the leader of our armies to
                     combat, whoever he might be, that he might smite the Philistines in battle, to
                     the going down of the sun."
                  It was near ten o'clock in the morning of the 21st of April, 1775, that Burnham
                     took leave of his parents. A bright sun was throwing its light o'er the land,
                     as in the porch of the dwelling, where he was born, he knelt down to ask a
                     blessing from his mother. In one hand he held the flag which had been presented
                     to the Oakdale Volunteers by the ladies of the village. On its folds were
                     embroidered the arms of Connecticut, the three bunches of grapes, with the
                     motto Qui transtutit sustinet, he who
                     transplanted us will sustain us.
                  "God bless you, my son. If we are never to meet again on earth, and it is given
                     hereafter to the dead to watch over and guard the living, I shall be with you.
                     Farewell, my dear child; be faithful always to your country, and you will be
                     faithful to heaven!"
                  One kiss and they parted, never again to meet on earth. A long
                     roll of the drum was heard, and Burnham hastened down to the volunteers, just
                     then assembling on the church green, to take his position in line. It had been
                     arranged that eighty men of the battallion should leave at once, and the
                     remainder in one or two days, so as to divide the march, and accommodate those
                     who were not yet prepared to leave home at once.
                  The drum and the fife struck up their merry notes, when the company got into
                     line under the charge of Orderly Ki Lane, who, in his uniform, appeared a head
                     and shoulders taller than any man in the company. Major John Chester assumed
                     the command as soon as Ki placed his espontoon* at a present, and the roll of
                     the drum announced that they were now in actual working order. Burnham was in
                     the centre of the line, with the colors of the battallion.
                  
                     *The espontoon was a half pike, carried by
                        subalterns and non-commissioned officers, and used more particularly in
                        dressing men in the line. It is now out of use, but was used during the
                        Revolution.
                  
                  At this juncture, the aged minister beckoned Major Chester to his side. He was
                     standing at the door of the meeting house, with old Captain Burnham, in earnest
                     converse, and groups of women and children, who had husbands, fathers, and
                     brothers in the ranks of the volunteers, were looking, with anxious and weeping
                     eyes, upon those they might never again behold.
                  "Major Chester," said the venerable man, "will you march your men into the
                     sanctuary of the Lord? I would ask His blessing upon you all."
                  The Major bowed to the minister, and touched his hat to his old commander,
                     Captain Burnham. In a moment his men were marched into the old meeting house.
                     It was a solemn scene. A band of men, in the early vigor of life, were about to
                     leave their homes and all they held dear—parents, wives, children, brothers,
                     and sisters, and take part in the war and battle. Who was to return? Perhaps
                     none; it was a voluntary act on their part, but their country demanded their
                     services; all were ready for the sacrifice.
                  The old minister ascended the pulpit, and gave out a psalm. It was sung with
                     deep feeling, all joining. This ended, he knelt his venerable form over the
                     pulpit, resting his arms upon the Bible, and thus spoke, in a voice tremulous
                     with emotion:—
                  "My children, war in some cases is necessary. The holy book tells us that
                     Napthali and Judah were a people that jeoparded themselves into death in the
                     high places of the field! The God of battles teaches us that in defence of our
                     rights we are justified in warring against the foe. The oppressors are upon us,
                     they have struck down our 
                        breathren
                        brethren
                      upon our own soil, and slaughtered the innocent. You are now going
                     forth to battle against the children of Moab and Ammon, and may you all be
                     Sampsons in strength when you meet the soldiers of our cruel enemy, George,
                     King of England. His ministers, with his consent, have doomed us to
                     destruction, but they forget that there is a God who guided us from persecution
                     and planted us in 
                        safty
                        safety
                      on these shores; to his gracious will we commit ourselves: the King
                     of kings. Let us pray.
                  "Almighty God. Bless thy children here assembled, and be a shield of protection
                     over them. Bless them as thou didst David when he went forth to battle with 
                        Goliah
                        Goliath
                      of Gath. If it is thy will that any should fall in the conflict, take
                     their souls to thy holy keeping and protection. We are thy humble worshippers
                     pers, and thank thee for the mercies thou hast hitherto bestowed upon us; do
                     not in this hour of affliction forsake us. Oh! let every arm that is raised in
                     this righteous cause of freedom, be guided by thee to temporal victory here,
                     and eternal victory hereafter. Bless the Continental Congress, and make their
                     acts, acts of wisdom; bless the governors and rulers and chiefs of the people,
                     and bless, oh Lord! this little band now in thy 
                        sanctary
                        sanctuary
                      in this their undertaking to preserve the liberties of their native
                     land. Thy will, oh God! not mine, be done—Amen!"*
                  
                  
                     *In most cases when the New England troops
                        left their respective towns, they were addressed in the meeting house,
                        before marching, by the ministers in terms very similar to this address and
                        prayer.
                  
                  When the solemn "Amen!" of the old preacher died away, nothing broke the
                     stillness save some half-stifled sobs. Certain it was, there were no dry eyes
                     in the assemblage. Who could wonder? Here were men going forth to battle, many
                     of them never to return, and they were now to take leave of all they held dear
                     on earth. The minister had bent his head, silvered with age, upon the Bible, as
                     if holding sacred communion with his God. He rose, extended his hands as if
                     pronouncing a blessing and benediction. At a given signal from Major Chester,
                     the soldiers rose and marched out upon the green.
                  There was now a shaking of hands, and farewell partings, and audible bursts of
                     grief. Shortly the drums and fife struck up a lively old-fashioned tune, and
                     the company marched down to the ferry, about a mile distant, to be taken across
                     the Connecticut, and thence pursue the route to Boston. At the ferry two large
                     scows were laying in which they embarked, one carrying over an ox-team
                     containing their baggage and provisions. Just as the last scow was pushing off,
                     Burnham stood up and saluted his father and friends on the bank.
                  "Good-by, all of you," said the old captain, "and Harry, if you fall, don't let
                     me hear it was by a shot through the back."
                  There was a simultaneous cheer, from friends and soldiers, the drum and fife
                     played away, as the scows pushed off into the stream. Of the eighty men who
                     that day left their native village, eight years afterwards in 1783, twelve
                     returned, and most of them bore honorable and deep seated scars, the only thing
                     they brought back from the wars. Of their companions, some slept at Bunker
                     Hill, others before the walls of Quebec, at Saratoga, Monmouth, in the trenches
                     before Savannah far away in the sunny South, and beneath the clods of Yorktown.
                     They died for one common cause—the INDEPENDENCE AND UNION OF THE STATES!
                  On reaching the opposite shore of Lyme, the march commenced. It was the
                     intention of Major Chester to reach New London, about eighteen miles from the
                     river, and there stop his command for the night, for the purpose of procuring
                     an extra quantity of ammunition, and the next morning, by early daybreak,
                     continue his march towards Boston by land through Rhode Island.
                  Major Chester was a soldier who had seen service in the French war, and was a
                     good officer. His age was between forty-five and fifty, though in activity and
                     strength he would have appeared ten years younger. Though commissioned as a
                     Major by Governor Trumbull, and thereby a field officer, he marched on foot on
                     this occasion, giving as a reason to Burnham, that example was something,
                     particularly to volunteers.
                  The day was fine, being that period of the year (April) when the heats have not
                     commenced in our northern clime, and marching to the sound of the drum for the
                     first time in what might be called service, Burnham was highly exhilarated.
                     Though not exactly adjutant of the half of the battallion of Oakdale
                     volunteers, Ki held very nearly that position by order of the Major, and he had
                     a general superintendence of the men on the line of march.
                  They really looked well in their uniform of buff and blue, though when it was
                     adopted by them, they little imagined it was to become eventually the uniform
                     of the army of the revolution.* Every farm house turned out its inmates, men,
                     women, and children, as they marched along, and refreshments were tendered them
                     in abundance. Men ploughing in the fields would leave their horses and cattle
                     and rush after them, insisting that they should stop at their farm houses, and
                     if they would take nothing else, at least drink a little cider, which would be
                     distributed by buckets full.
                  
                     *It was a company from Connecticut that
                        first wore the buff and blue in the Spring of 1775 when they marched into
                        the lines before Boston.
                  
                  In one instance, an old man with three strapping sons, from eighteen to
                     twenty-three, were laying stone wall by the road-side. As they passed along, he
                     spoke to Major Chester, who directed a halt.
                  "For Boston, I 'spose?"
                  "Yes, we are on our march to aid our brethren in Massachusetts," replied
                     Major.
                  "They're fine-lookin' trainers," said the old man, as his eye glanced at the
                     soldiers. "Now, boys," turning to his sons, "one of you must shoulder your
                     musket and fall in. If plough-in' was all through, the hull three on yer should
                     go and sarve your country, but I can't spare ye all till next month. Come,
                     which one is it to be, Jotham, Nathan, or Jesse?"
                  "I'm the oldest, dad, and I guess I'll go for the example on't," answered the
                     one called Jotham.
                  The old man and his brothers shook him by the hand, when he ran off to a
                     farm-house close by, and in a few minutes returned with his musket, knapsack,
                     and a powder horn slung over his shoulder, and fell in the rear.
                  "Take care of him, Captain," was the last remark of the old man to Chester,
                     "he's a good boy, and when you want to use him in service, put him in the front
                     rank, I consider he'll stand fire."
                  He then returned to laying stone as coolly as if he had not sent his eldest son
                     on an errand possibly of death. These things were not uncommon at this period,
                     for by the time the company reached New London, which was somewhat late in the
                     afternoon, more than thirty volunteers
                     had joined in the rear, swelling the entire number to over a hundred men.
                  Just before the company entered the town, he ordered a halt, and calling up Ki
                     Lane, addressed him in a few words, and announced for the balance of the march,
                     he should appoint him acting Adjutant, and at the same time delivered him the
                     instructions to march Burnham declared years afterwards, from the glance of
                     Ki's eye, when the instructions were put into his hand, his tall form seemed to
                     rise at least at inch, giant as he was.
                  Major Chester halted his men in the main street of New London, where he
                     dismissed them till called together by the tap of the drum. In the meantime,
                     himself, Burnham, and his other officers waited upon the "Committee of Safety"
                     of the town, under whose charge was all the ammunition, lead and military
                     stores.
                  He immediately received a requisition on the keeper of the stores for a pound
                     of powder for each man in his company, with a due proportion of bullets and
                     spare flints. On announcing that it was his intention to pursue his march a few
                     miles further for the night, the committee and citizens, that now began to
                     assemble in great numbers, would not listen to it, but one and all insisted
                     that the company should rest for the night in the town, and everybody was eager
                     to quarter three or four of the soldiers for the night in their respective
                     dwellings. Another inducement was held cut, that in the morning wagons should
                     be furnished to take the soldiers as far us Westerly, the first town in Rhode
                     Inland, a distance of about twenty miles.
                  Major Chester and Burnham took up their quarters for the night with Squire
                     Williams, the chairman of the Committee of Safety.—He was a merchant,
                     extensively engaged in the West India trade, and had as much to lose by the
                     quarrel with the mother country as any one in the colony. For all that, he did
                     not hesitate in the line of his duty—his patriotism was all for his native
                     land. He lived in handsome style, and Burnham found that night at his table an
                     agreeable entertainment, and the presence of an amiable family. Fatigued with
                     his march, he retired early.
                  When alone, he thought over the events of the day. First, his parting with his
                     parents, and his mother's final blessing—then the scene in the village church,
                     the old minister's benediction, the march to the river, and his father's last
                     words, "Don't let me hear that you fell shot through the back." The incidents
                     of the march, Fairfax, college days, all gradually arose, things became more
                     indistinct,—Boston, Mary Manners, now he was imparting a kiss on her lips, then
                     the scene changed, and he was on the field of battle—he had gone into the land
                     of dreams.
                  At the sound of the reveille, Burnham leaped
                     from his bed, and drawing aside the window curtain, he looked out. Day was just
                     beginning to tinge with a golden light the clouds in the east, and on the green
                     below him Ki was forming the volunteers, who seemed to enter into the spirit of
                     service with all the ardor of veterans. After the morning parade, and a few
                     evolutions to show the proficiency of the company, it was divided and marched
                     to the two principal taverns, where breakfast on a grand scale had been ordered
                     for them by the citizens. Poor fellows, taken together, it was the best
                     breakfast they had an opportunity of eating through more than one campaign.
                  Some thirty wagons, the property of the residents of New London and farmers in
                     the vicinity, were now driven up, and the soldiers, taking farewell of their
                     kind friends, with "three cheers for the patriotic inhabitants of New London,"
                     were soon on their way, at a rapid pace, through the country, towards Boston.
                     As the day before on their route, so again every farm house and
                     little hamlet turned out their inmates to tender all they had in the way of
                     provisions for the soldiers—payment they would not take.
                  At Westerly, in Rhode Island, dinner was prepared for them in different houses
                     by the good people, after which they again entered the wagons of their New
                     London friends, who were to leave them a few miles beyond, whence they were to
                     take up their line of march on foot. Rumors now began to gather of the
                     particulars of the Lexington fight, of the march of the British troops to
                     Concord, and that Lord Percy had been sent out by Gen. Gage with reinforcements
                     to aid the other troops, but that the country people had gathered in great
                     numbers, and attacked them, driving them with immense loss back into Boston.
                     The volunteers heard these reports, from time to time, as they met minute men
                     on horseback spreading the alarm through the country. Between Westerly and
                     North Kingston they resumed their march on foot, after thanking heartily the
                     friends who had given them so much aid in their progress. All that night,
                     having the advantage of a bright moon, they pressed on, the men and officers
                     requesting Major Chester not to spare them, for they were eager to reach
                     Boston, and take part in preventing the British troops from ravaging the
                     country.
                  About two o'clock in the morning it was thought best by the officers to halt,
                     and take a little refreshment and two hours' rest. Accordingly, a halt was
                     ordered by the roadside, where stood an old uninhabited house. A fire was
                     quickly kindled, knapsacks thrown off, canteens turned upside down, and all the
                     appearance of a mimic camp exhibited.
                  "A soldier's fare, Burnham," said Major Chester, as, seated on a knapsack, he
                     very deliberately proceeded to cut a slice from a square piece of cold boiled
                     salt pork before him, which he grilled on the point of his sword before the
                     fire. "A soldier's fare—we shall have worse by and by, for it is my deliberate
                     opinion that the war will be a long one, and much blood be shed before it is
                     over."
                  "The sooner it comes the better, my dear Major. I long to show Britons that we
                     are not less brave than they, and that we know our rights. The parent should
                     remember its child may be abused once too often. By the by, Major, I have often
                     heard my father speak of the battle at Lake George, where you took Baron
                     D'Escaux prisoner, for which General Lyman made you an ensign on the spot. Do
                     let me hear the account from your own lips."*
                  
                  
                     *The battle of Lake George was fought on the
                        8th September, 1755. It was a bloody affair. Gen. William Johnson nominally
                        commanded the provincials and the English, though General Lyman was the
                           fighting man. Baron D'Escaux (converted into Dieskau by
                        historians) led the French and the Indians. The battle continued six hours,
                        and ended finally in the defeat of the French. The Baron was wounded and
                        taken prisoner. General Johnson was made a Baronet for this battle. He was
                        the celebrated Sir William Johnson.
                  
                  At this instant, Ki entered the kitchen of the old house, where the officers
                     had taken up their quarters, with three or four pipes and a paper of tobacco,
                     which he placed before them.
                  "Pipes and tobacco, sirs," touched his hat, and remained standing, with all the
                     precision of a veteran of twenty 
                        campaiegns
                        campaigns
                     . Old Capt. Burnham had taught Ki the strictest rules of
                     discipline.
                  "Sit down, Serjeant," said the Major, "and my thanks for the pipes. The Ensign
                     is desirous of hearing of my fights over again, and I can't refuse him."
                  Having devoured his slice of broiled pork with a crust of bread, swallowed some
                     suspicious-looking stuff, which might have been St. Croix, and lighting his
                     pipe, he thus commenced.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  MAJOR CHESTER'S STORY OF THE BATTLE OF BLOODY POND AND LAKE
                     GEORGE, 1775.
                  "There were desperate deeds done in those days, Burnham, and I was about your
                     age when I first 'listed in Col. Ephraim Williams' provincials. I was always a
                     good shot from a boy, and when that corps was raised on purpose to fight the
                     French and their allies, the Indians, wood fashion, they picked out the
                     prominent lads in the New England colonies, 'listed under Captain Whiting at
                     New Haven, in the summer of '55, and we were marched to Albany, where General
                     Johnson took command—he that was afterwards Sir William Johnson, made so for a
                     battle he never won—This is capital tobacco, Sergeant.'
                  "Yes, sir," replied Ki; "some of the New London merchants gin me near about a
                     dozen pound to smoke out the innimy, and I think we'll do it, sir."
                  "As I was saying, Burnham, we met at Albany, where we found some British
                     regulars, and Ruggles, Pomeroys and Titcomb's regiments of provincials, with
                     some other corps. Well, it was in the summer of '55 we set out from Albany on
                     the head of Lake George. On the way we were joined by old Captain Hendricks, 
                        wih
                        with
                      his Mohawks. He was a fine brave fellow, though he was an Indian, and
                     the English had made him a captain; to see him strut around in his scarlet
                     coat, you'd have taken him for a General at least."
                  "I have heard my father speak of him a great many times," said Burnham—"they
                     served together."
                  "Yes, I presume so," answered Chester—"Well, there we lay doing nothing for a
                     long time at Lake George, sucking our fingers, and now and then scutting a
                     little, instead of pushing on to Crown Point, as we ought to have done. But no,
                     General Johnson thought not, and the officers, particularly General Lyman, were
                     quite riled about it, Burnham. We were always ready for action in those days,
                     we provincials."
                  "Yes, sir; and I trust that now we have a stronger foe to fight on our own
                     soil, the present generation will not be found less brave than their fathers in
                     the old French war."
                  "Never fear, my boy, never fear, the same spirit still lives, and here is the
                     proof," as he said this he pointed to his men, who lay in groups about the
                     room, and out in the field, the light from the camp-fires reflecting upon their
                     stalwart forms as they lay in slumber. "No, no, the old stuff is in
                        their bones. Sergeant, fill me another pipe. As I was saying,
                     there we lay in the early autumn of '55, doing nothing absolutely, and of
                     course the French commander in Canada heard of it, and despatched Baron
                     D'Escaux with about two thousand regular troops and hosts of Indians to take
                     Fort Edward, so as to cut off our retreat. But, somehow, he changed his mind,
                     and came direct upon us, and now I'll tell you how it was, and how I was made
                     an ensign, and how I made plain William Johnson, Sir William
                     Johnson, Baronet.
                  "On Sunday morning, the 7th of September, 1776—I recollect it as well as I do
                     yesterday, it was such a clear, bright, bracing morning—I went to Lt.-Col.
                     Whiting's quarters, he'd been promoted since I joined, and asked leave to take
                     ten men and go on a scout, with the privilege of picking up a little venison.
                     While I was talking with the Colonel, who should come up but General Lyman.
                     'General,' said Whiting, 'Sergeant Chester wishes to take ten men and go on a
                     scout, and I think it is no more than right, for I do not like our position,
                     and should we be suddenly attacked, we must be defeated.' 'Colonel,' answered
                     Gen. Lyman, 'send out the Sergeant and the ten men; I came here to suggest the
                     same thing.' I was pleased at this, touched my hat, selected my men, and
                     started from camp, with the understanding that I should return instantly if I
                     saw anything of the enemy, and by no means to keep out longer than daylight
                     next morning.
                  "We struck into the woods above the fort, and scattered somewhat, but still
                     within hearing distance, for ten men on a wood scout cannot go over a very
                     large extent of ground at once, unless they flank it considerable. Well, it was
                     getting near noon, and having found no signs of the enemy either in person or
                     trail, I thought if any of the party came across a fat buck, we might as well
                     give him a shot, and have a little fresh venison with our salt pork. It wasn't
                     long before one of my men picked off a noble stag, and we halted beside a
                     spring, kindled a fire, and made a capital ranger's meal, with our venison,
                     biscuit, pork, and our gill of rum each, Burnham. In the woods a meal is
                     relished by soldiers diers with an
                     appetite that kings cannot command in their palaces."
                  "I shall have an opportunity to test it, I hope, Major," said Burnham, his
                     heart kindling with the hopes of testing all the fortunes and vicissitudes of a
                     soldier's life.
                  "After taking an hour or two's rest, we prepared to march," continued the
                     Major, "and the thought struck me that if the Frenchmen, with their Indians,
                     really intended to attack us, they might have gone towards Fort Edward, and
                     then perhaps come up the road to Lake George. So I ordered the men in that
                     direction, and away we went scattering as before; I gave particular orders to
                     them to keep a strict watch, as we took the road towards Fort Edward. Well, on
                     we went till the sun began to sink pretty low in the west, and we had got down
                     to the neighborhood somewhat of Glenn's Falls. I gave the signal for the party
                     to draw closer, and crossed myself to a little path that ran along a hill
                     covered with thick bushy oaks, some tall pines, hemlocks and other trees. It
                     was a gloomy place—hid from the sun, which was now going down rapidly, just the
                     place it seemed to me for an ambuscade. As I stood leaning on my gun, looking
                     at a brook that lost itself in the thicket about half a gun shot off, suddenly
                     two or three jays flew out of the tree under which I was standing, and went off
                     screaming as if disturbed. I thought some of my men were approaching, and never
                     looked up, or troubled myself about it, and only for the veriest chance in the
                     world, I should never have been here to tell the story.
                  "A fine large buck came down to the other side of the brook about sixty yards
                     from me, to drink. He was in good shooting distance, and although I had some
                     reason to believe that the enemy were within hearing distance, I couldn't let
                     go the opportunity of having a shot at him. As I said, the sun had got lower
                     and lower, and twilight had fairly commenced in the woods, and the buck's head
                     began to look dim in the distance, for it seemed he never would have done
                     drinking, when I stepped cautiously three or four yards away from the tree
                     under which I stood to get a fair range of the animal, so as to put a ball
                     through his brain, just over his eyes. When I raised my piece my ranger's cap
                     fell off, and at the same instant, I heard a sound like the crack of a branch
                     in the tree.
                  "At once I knew there was danger, but I never felt so cool in my life. I
                     believe a feeling of desperation makes a man feel cool sometimes; so, without
                     taking down my gun, I glanced cautiously up into the tree, and there, plainly
                     as I see you now, I saw perched among the branches the dark form of an Indian,
                     darker still in the shades of coming night. I could hear the click of the
                     hammer of his gun—the rascal was preparing to shoot me, while I was apparently
                     about shooting the buck.—Measuring his position with my eye, and getting the
                     range of his breast, I turned suddenly and fired. As he fell, his gun went off,
                     the sudden pain causing him to pull the trigger, and he struck the ground
                     within a yard of me, falling dead right across my path!
                  "I hadn't much time, I assure you, Burnham, to think about the Indian, for the
                     cursedest cry—you never heard the war-whoop, my boy, in the woods—rose all
                     around me. I had got right into a nest of the devils, for they took us to be
                     only the advance scout of a large party of English and provincials, and
                     expected to draw us all into the snare. I immediately gave the rangers' yell,
                     and struck into the brook which led through little thickets of hazel, swamp
                     ash, and elder, just the place for concealment. I could hear some of my men
                     answer in reply to my signal, and then came the firing all around as if the
                     pursuit was making. Defence was useless; escape was the only chance, and I had
                     previously instructed my men that if we met with a party so superior to us as
                     to make fighting useless, each man was to make his way back to camp, and give
                     the alarm as quick as possible.
                  "Getting under a large clump of witch hazel, I paused for a moment to listen
                     and load my gun. The firing had pretty much ceased, but the war whoop still
                     continued, though in another direction from the route I had taken. After
                     waiting quietly some four or five minutes, I heard a footstep, and then the
                     bushes were parted away, and a deep groan followed. I knew the voice was not
                     that of an Indian, so I advanced, and said, boldly, 'who goes there?' 'Ah,
                     sergeant,' said a voice, which I recognised as one of my corporals, 'one who
                     won't go any farther; I've got two balls through my body. Lay me down by the
                     brook, and give me a little water; I'm dying for a drink."
                  "I took hold of him and laid him down gently. He was evidently nearly gone, for
                     the blood had fairly wet all the lower part of his clothes, and as I placed him
                     on the green turf, his face turned in the direction of the brook, I could see
                     the blood gush out from his wounds. I took his cap, filled it with water, and
                     after letting him drink his fill, began to bathe his face. 'Did you see any of
                     the lads fall?' said I to him. 'Yes, Sergeant,' he slowly murmured, 'three of
                     them lie about ten rods from this, in the direction that I came—leave me, I am
                     going fast; make your escape in time. Oh!' In a minute after I was rubbing the
                     face of a corpse.
                  "I tell you, Burnham, it was no pleasant feeling to sit there by that dead body
                     for the space of half an hour, with the war-whoop of a thousand red devils
                     pealing around me—not knowing but that they would scent me out at any moment.
                     At length all was quiet; and taking one look at the body of the brave corporal,
                     I struck through the bushes in the direction he came, for I wished to see which
                     three of my party lay dead in the spot he had pointed out.
                  "The moon had risen as I stole along, and getting on the edge of the swamp, I
                     could see the spot where the men lay. It was a little opening in the forest,
                     and the moon-beams striking through the narrow strip of clearing, shone on the
                     faces of the dead. There was a gory ring about the heads—the scalping knife had
                     done its duty! My next impulse was to make my way as quick as possible to the
                     camp at Fort George, for I knew that Indians, unless backed by the French
                     regulars, would never make their way so far into our territories.
                  "My supposition was soon satisfied, for I had not gone the eighth of a mile on
                     my road, as I supposed towards the camp, when I saw in a little meadow the
                     tents of the French troops, their camp fires lighted, their sentinels posted,
                     and every preparation made to stop for the night. Knowing well that the Indians
                     must be close by, awaiting their allowance of rum, for the Frenchmen always
                     kept their dark-skinned friends well provided for, I made a circuit, and
                     succeeded in reaching the camp in safety about twelve o'clock at night, where I
                     communicated the news to General Lyman, Colonel Williams, and Colonel
                     Whiting.
                  "The next morning, a council of war was held, and it was determined that
                     Colonel Williams, with a body of 1200 men, should be sent out to meet the
                     enemy. I expected, as a matter of course, to be of the party, and I know if I
                     had been, I could have saved a good deal of the disaster, from my knowledge
                     obtained of the enemy the night before. But General Johnson said he wanted me
                     to remain and give him full information of the affair of the scout. Of course I
                     had to obey.
                  "Never shall I forget old Hendrick's* speech to the Mohawks just before the party
                     left. He was a fine looking old Indian, of about 65, tall, and somewhat
                     corpulent, with straight silver hair. He commenced in a low tone at first, but
                     gradually warmed up, and I verily believe you could have heard him a mile over
                     the lake. It affected us all, though none of us knew anything about the Mohawk.
                     Poor fellow! he was among the first killed.
                  
                     *He was called the "great Hendrick of the
                        Mohawks."
                  
                  "At a place called Rocky Brook, about four miles from the lake, D'Escaux, who
                     had got intelligence from his scouts, drew up his army in the shape of a
                     semi-circle, with Indians on both flanks or horns of the half-moon. Colonel
                     Williams marched his men right into this semi-circle, for all around was a
                     deep, dense forest, and the fire at once commenced upon the devoted band from
                     the centre, both flanks, and even in the rear, for the flank parties of Indians
                     gradually gathered round.
                  "Colonel Williams was soon killed, and Hendrick, the Mohawk Chief, mortally
                     wounded, and the English and Provincials began to fall fast. The firing was
                     heard at the lake, very plainly and approaching. I begged General Johnson to
                     let me make a scout, and see how the battle went. He consented, at last; and to
                     tell you the truth, Burnham, I think there was a good deal of the coward about
                     that Gen. Johnson—but he's dead and gone, so let him rest. Well, off I started,
                     and in a mile or two met large parties of our men, some wounded, and some not,
                     making their way to Lake George. They told me our party was defeated, but I
                     pushed on till I came to a little pond, where I found a desperate struggle
                     going on, our folks sure enough having the worst of it.
                  "Well, Burnham, we fought there for some time under the command of Col.
                     Whiting, our men falling fast, until we were relieved by 300 men from Lake
                     George, under the command of Lieut. Col. Cole, which enabled us to make our
                     retreat in a little better order. In that pond—it is called to this day the
                     'Bloody Pond'—I saw, Burnham, over one hundred bodies thrown during the fight,
                     until the whole surface became dyed with gore! It was a hideous sight, indeed;
                     but war always has been, and always will be so, Whiting was a fine officer, and
                     brought us off in as good condition as could be expected; and we reached Lake
                     George, where Johnson had thrown up a breast-work of logs and earth in the
                     absence of our party, at about 11 in the day.
                  "In about half an hour afterwards, D'Escaux arrived with his victorious troops,
                     and marched bravely up to within long musket shot of our breastwork, where they
                     halted to take a nip, I suppose, for I never could imagine any other reason. My
                     position enabled me to see all that was going on, for Gen. Lyman, after my
                     scout adventure, seemed to take a liking to me, and directed me not to return
                     to my company, but remain with him, and act as his orderly. Very soon, D'Escaux
                     sent out his Indians on both flanks, and prepared to attack us himself in the
                     centre. Now D'Escaux had been bred in the European school of warfare, under the
                     Marshal de Saxe, and he supposed that our flanking was necessary. Indians are
                     good flankers under fair chances of success, Burnham, but never otherwise.
                  "Now, there was one thing that D'Escaux did not know, nor his Indians either,
                     or they never would have attempted flanking duty, and that was the arrival the
                     day before of some howitzers and field artillery. Col. Pomeroy, as soon as he
                     saw the flanking parties of Indians go out, came up to where Generals Johnson
                     and Lyman were standing, and I was close by, so that I heard it all 'Gen.
                     Johnson,' said Col. Pomeroy, 'had you not better let Capt. Eyre, with two
                     pieces of his artillery, take 
                        staiton
                        station
                      on the flanks to scatter the Indians; they are always frightened by
                     field pieces.'
                  "Gen. Johnson hesitated for a moment, and then said: "I do not like to waste
                     ammunition; I think we had better hold on for the French in our front.'
                  "I saw Gen. Lyman look very angry, and he spoke out at once; "General Johnson,
                     unless you do as Col. Pomeroy asks with the artillery, we shall certainly lose
                     the day, and our lives besides. I will guarantee that with my men here we can
                     keep off D'Escaux without artillery. My advice is the same as Pomeroy's, that
                     Capt. Eyre with his field pieces, take post against the Indians on our
                     flanks.'
                  "General Johnson at once gave in:—'Oh, gentlemen, certainly, if you wish it,
                     the cannon shall take the position you think best,' and he directed Capt. Eyre
                     to cover the flanks with his guns
                  "The Baron now marched up with his regulars within point blank musket shot of
                     the breastwork, and commenced firing by platoons. Hardly a shot struck us—yes,
                     there was one exception; Gen. Johnson* got a flesh wound
                        *In Stark's Memoirs it is stated that
                           "Johnson's desire appeared to be rather to escape destruction himself
                           than to destroy the enemy." Yet this man was made a baronet for a victory
                           he never won!
                      in the thigh, which bled a
                     little, and forthwith he marched to his tent, able to walk, you
                     see, Burnham, leaving the command to General Lyman. Ah! he was a brave man,
                     that Lyman.
                  "As soon as the Indians commenced their fire on the flanks, Eyre throw a shell
                     from a howitzer among them, and fired a few rounds of grape, when they run like
                     deer, leaving D'Escaux to receive the brunt of our fire.—We soon put his
                     European veterans in disorder, so severe was our discharge of small arms—and
                     near upon four o'clock in the afternoon Lyman gave us orders to leap the
                     breastwork and attack the enemy. The latter did not wait to receive us, but
                     broke and run, and the slaughter soon commenced very heavily on the side of the
                     enemy.
                  "I followed in pursuit, and was running after an Indian that had darted off
                     into the woods, full speed, when I saw an elderly man, richly dressed, with an
                     order and several jewels on his breast, sitting upon a stump. As I approached
                     in somewhat of a hurry, and got within ten feet of him, he make an effort to
                     rise, clapping one hand in his pocket suddenly to draw out, as I thought, a
                     pistol to shoot me. Raising my gun instantly, I fired and shot him through the
                     hips. He fell with as heavy groan, and withdrawing his hand from his pocket,
                     displayed his watch, which he tendered me! Judge my distress, Burnham, at the
                     moment—instead of feeling for a pistol it was for his watch to make my
                     friendship—and I had shot him!
                  
                  "I instantly raised him from the ground, and he said something to me in broken
                     English, that 'he was in great pain, and that he was Lieutenant General Baron
                     D'Escaux, commander-in-chief of the French forces.'
                  "General Lyman in a few moments came up with a party of men, but I had in the
                     meantime placed the wounded Baron in a more comfortable position, and explained
                     as well as I was able my reasons for firing at him—he smiled faintly, and said,
                        'fortune le guerre.' A litter was
                     immediately put together and covered with blankets, and D'Escaux*
                      carried down to the camp Just before he was removed, he said something
                     to Lyman and then presented me with his gold watch. The General turned to me
                     and said, 'Sergeant Chester, the Baron presents you with his watch as a token
                     of his respect—I appoint you Ensign in the first company of Whiting's regiment
                     of provincials, for your services yesterday and to-day—but for your scout we
                     should have been surprised and defeated. Ensign Chester, I shall
                     expect you to sup with me this evening'
                  
                     
                     *D'Escaux never entirely recovered from this wound, though he served in
                        Canada when Wolfe took Quebec, repulsing that General in his first
                        attempt, before he ascended the heights of Abraham. D'Escaux died in
                        France in 1767. He was sometime in this city under the medical treatment
                        of the late Dr. Jones.
                  
                  "For that action, Burnham, which General Johnson never won, he was created a
                     Baronet, and but for the scout I undertook we should have been beaten—so you
                     see, as I commenced with, I made him Sir William
                     Johnson. Ah! if the title had been Sir Phinehas Lyman, and the grant of ¥5000,
                     which Johnson received from Parliament, been given to him, there would have
                     been justice in it. There, Burnham, I have finished my story about Lake George
                     and the Bloody Pond."
                  "And much do I thank you for the relation, Major, though it has kept you from
                     the sleep that I know you require.
                  "I shall soon take that, Burnham," said the Major, as he stretched himself on
                     the floor, his head resting on a pack. "I can get to sleep at a moment's
                     notice. Sergeant, you will see to the relief—the reveille will beat in an
                     hour's time, I should judge from that faint streak in the west."
                  It was not long before the Major and Burnham were both fast asleep, while Ki,
                     the faithful Sergeant of the guard, remained awake, as careful in the discharge
                     of his duty as if he was within gun shot of the enemy.
                  A little after daylight next morning, the volunteers resumed their march with
                     all speed, receiving, as before, the same kind treatment from the inhabitants
                     on the route. In the course of their progress, they met, at various times,
                     companies and regiments of men bound on the same errand to Boston; and in the
                     afternoon of the fourth day after leaving Oakdale, the volunteers marched into
                     the lines at Cambridge, where they were received with hearty cheers by the
                     soldiers already assembled. As soon as the men were billetted, Burnham, with
                     Ki, left for the quarters of Putnam.
                  On passing from Cambridge, by the high ground which looks towards Boston, they
                     came to several pieces of artillery, where the soldiers had evidently been
                     practising. Sitting on an ammunition chest, Burnham saw an officer apparently
                     fifty-five or sixty years of age. His face was full and round, his nose short
                     and slightly turned up, his hair gray, and the whole expression of his
                     countenance evincing cheerfulness and good nature. His figure was corpulent,
                     and he wore a faded coat of blue, with scarlet facings, light breeches and
                     overalls, the uniform of the provincials in the old French war. Burnham knew at
                     a glance, from the description, that the old officer was "Old
                        Put."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Putnam was at this time, 1775, over 57 years of age. He was born in
                        January, 1718
                  
                  He immediately advanced, and delivered a letter which his father had given him
                     for Putnam. The latter read the letter, his eyes brightening up at its
                     contents. When he had finished, he rose up, took Burnham by the hand, and
                     looking at him from head to foot, said:
                  "A chip of the old block, by the trumpets of Israel! I'm glad, my boy, to take
                     by the hand the son of my old companion, Ralph Burnham. Come, come; my man has
                     just told me that dinner is on the table—rather late, but I've been practising
                     the lads a little in artillery. This way, and you must tell me after dinner all
                     about the old veteran."
                  Linking his arm in that of Burnham, he led him to his quarters.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  THE SUPPER WITH GEN. PUTNAM.
                  In a few moments, Burnham found himself at the quarters of Putnam. He occupied
                     a portion of a farm-house, which had been willingly surrendered to him by the
                     inmates.
                  "Now, my young Ensign," said the old General, "here are my quarters; but,
                     heaven help me! I have forgotten one thing: who commands the battallion?"
                  "Major Chester, Sir."
                  "What! the old Ensign in your fathers company of the Royal Americans?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "Here, Nathan," said he, to a boy of some fifteen years of age, who acted as
                     his messenger, "run over to Cambridge immediately, and give Major Chester my
                     compliments, and request him to come and dine, or rather sup, with me. Tell him
                     I shall hear no excuse, but order him to come. Now, Ensign, sit
                     down; the meal will soon be on the table. By the bye, who is your tall friend
                     yonder?" and he looked at Ki, who stood without the door.
                  "A faithful and honest soldier, General,—Sergeant Lane, of my company."
                  "Well, he looks big enough for two soldiers. Here, Sergeant," said he, calling
                     to Ki, "come in and take a meal with me. No ceremony now; Generals, Sergeants,
                     and privates are all engaged in one cause." Ki bowed, entered, and seated
                     himself.
                  "How does your father carry himself now, Burnham? He is younger than I am, I
                     know, but he bears some heavy wounds about him."
                  "He bears his age and wounds well, General; and, but for the latter, he would
                     have been in the field as quick as the youngest man in camp. His lameness
                     increases with his years, and deeply does he regret that he is past service,
                     particularly when his country needs it."
                  "Ah! my good lad, if you but possess half the good qualities of your honored
                     father—my old friend—you are to be envied. But I doubt you not;
                     you look enough like him to act like him. Ah! Knowlton, Grovesnor, and the rest
                     of you, just in pudding-time: let me introduce you to Ensign Burnham and
                     Sergeant Lane, of the battallion that has just marched into camp from our
                     colony." This was addressed to three or four officers who had just entered.
                  The visitors immediately saluted Burnham and his companion with welcome
                     greetings, and in a moment after, two soldiers entered, each bearing a dish,
                     which they placed upon a long board table, unadorned with a cloth or any extra
                     comforts. Some dozen pewter plates were ranged around the table, with knives
                     and forks, not remarkably bright; and two rough benches, instead of chairs,
                     occupied the sides of the table.
                  "Come, my comrades, sit down," said Putnam; "what our cooks furnish we must
                     eat, though the food be more substantial than delicate."
                  One of the dishes contained boiled salt codfish, and plenty of it—the other a
                     huge piece of salt beef, and the only vegetables, potatoes. The drink, water,
                     save a huge jug of cider, that had an acid mark of age, such as would please
                     the lover of that drink by its strength, if no other qualification, as was
                     afterwards ascertained.
                  "You recollect Capt. Burnham, do you not, Knowlton?"
                  "Very well," was the reply.
                  "Ensign Burnham is his son."
                  "I surmised, as much, sir, from his looks."
                  "Another old friend of ours, in the French war, Major Chester, commands the
                     battalion. So you see, my lads, we of the old war school learned something to
                     come in play for our country at the proper time. By the trumpets of Israel, but
                     here to Chester himself!" and he rose at once, as the Major entered the
                     supper-room.
                  The meeting of three veterans, Putnam, Knowlton,*
                      and Chester, though the two latter were fifteen years younger than the
                     General, was gratifying in the extreme.—Soldiers have affectionate memories of
                     their comrades.
                  
                     
                     *The gallant Col. Knowlton was a Lieutenant of the
                        French war, and one of the bravest officers on Bunker Hill: he was
                        afterwards killed in the skirmish on Harlem Plains, in 1776.
                  
                  "Now, my boys, fall to without further talk. Thank the Lord we have enough to
                     eat, such as it is, and it's good plain fare. I'll be bound, gentlemen, it is
                     much better than Gen. Gage sits down to, cooped up as he now is in Boston.
                     Here, Nathan, you young woodchunk, where are the cups? Do you suppose we are at
                     work in the meadows, where everybody drinks cider out of the mouth of the
                     jug?"
                  The boy instantly ran out and returned with a dozen tin cups, and a silver
                     camp-mug; the latter he placed before the General with particular care.
                  "Nothing stronger than cider to-day, my boys. What little rum and brandy we
                     have on hand has to be kept for the men on actual duty, and for hospital
                     stores; but the privateers will soon bring us a few puncheons, without
                     doubt."
                  Putnam was no great talker over his meals, and his company seemed to follow his
                     example, for the clatter of knives and forks was the chief noise that filled
                     the humble supper-room. At length the substantial dishes were removed, and, by
                     way of a relish, an immense hasty pudding was brought, with a great mug of
                     molasses, to which full justice was done by the Yankees present—a pudding, by
                     the bye, which their descendants seem just as fond of, and Europeans soon will
                     be. The two-gallon jug of cider was next replenished, and a large tin plate of
                     cracked hickory nuts completed the dessert. The conversation now took a
                     different turn.
                  "Now, General," said Knowlton, "I wish to know your opinion as to the quarrel
                     with the mother country. Will things be settled, think you, amicably, or will
                     we have to fight to preserve those privileges which we declare are rightfully
                     ours? I do not see that we can give way, except by the loss of our honor."
                  "Knowlton," replied Putnam, as he placed the silver mug on the table, which he had just raised to his lips, "it is
                     idle for us to expect mercy from England. I know the stubborn firmness of her
                     ministry, and the immense power she has at her disposal of troops, fleets, and
                     money. She is like a proud and haughty woman, dressed in satins and jewels,
                     that wants others to bend as well as admire her. Depend upon it, for the
                     present, England will make no terms with us—we have got, therefore, to submit,
                     and be branded as cowards, on fight, and bear the consequences. I
                     say fight, fight—never submit to oppression—we must succeed in such a
                     cause."
                  "I agree with you perfectly, General—we must fight, there is no alternative,"
                     said Knowlton.
                  "Yes," was the remark of Chester, "and it must be as one people—we of New
                     England must look to our brethren of the South, and we must all make common
                     cause in the great fight, and it may last for years. The power of England is so
                     immense, that it will require all our energies to succeed in demanding of her
                     our rights."
                  Burnham, the youngest of the company, had listened with eagerness to all that
                     was said, now spoke:
                  "Had we not better go into the conflict with a determination to be an
                     independent nation at once?"
                  It should be remembered that at the outset of the revolution independence was
                     but little thought of. Arms were taken up merely to show the British government
                     that we would not be taxed at the pleasure of parliament without the power of
                     representation. Indeed many of those who were the firmest in the cause in 1774
                     and 1775, went over to the English side on the Declaration of Independence in
                     1776.
                  "That will come as a natural result, my young friend, if we are
                     successful in the commencement. At present, and I say it between ourselves, we
                     must not be premature in the matter. We must hear what Virginia, and
                     Pennsylvania, and New York, and all the colonies south of New England have got
                     to say upon the subject. If they say the word, so be it, and we'll forge a
                     chain of States whose links can never be broken by any power on God's
                     footstool. A year's fighting will tell the tale, gentlemen—freemen or
                     slaves."
                  The sentiments of Putnam were such as all agreed with, and the conversation
                     continued on this topic for some time, and finally merged itself into military
                     affairs. The great wants of the provincials then in camp before Boston was
                     powder and artillery. Major Chester thought at Ticonderoga, on Lake Champlain,
                     cannon were plenty, and by a coup de main
                     that fortress might be captured. Putnam replied, in a significant manner, that
                     the matter was under consideration.
                  Burnham, who sat next to Putnam, took hold of a silver cup of the General's to
                     examine a crest and a coat-of-arms engraved upon it. It was a massy pint camp
                     cup, in use among the higher grade of officers in that day. The coat-of-arms
                     was surmounted with a Viscount's coronet, and underneath was engraved the word
                     "Howe," after which followed another line rudely out in the silver—"To Major
                     Putnam, 1758."
                  The General noticed the young gentleman's curiosity, and gratified it
                     immediately, by saying:
                  "That cup was a present to me from one of the most noble and gallant officers I
                     ever knew—Lord George Howe."
                  "May I ask the circumstances, sir?" said Burnham.
                  "Certainly, but first let me fill it, and all drink to the memory of its
                     original owner, a true friend of the colonies."
                  This was done.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              PUTNAM'S STORY OF THE CAMP-CUP.
                              "In June, 1758, I was attached with my regiment of Provincials, or
                                 Rangers, as they were sometimes called, (the only difference in the
                                 name being, that Rogers*
                                  had an independent ranger battalion of his own,) to the
                                 army, under Abercrombie, then on its way from Lake George to
                                 Ticonderoga. A finer army never marched to battle on this Continent
                                 than was at that time assembled, well supplied with artillery and
                                 provisions, and needing nothing in the way of means, it seems now
                                 incredible that Ticonderoga was not taken; but I have always
                                 thought if Howe had not been killed before the attack on the fort
                                 itself commenced, all would have been right.
                              
                                 
                                 *Major Robert Rogers, of New Hampshire, who published his
                                    narrative of the Rangers' services, in London, in 1762 or 3,
                                    after the treaty of peace between France and England. At the 
                                       commence-mencement
                                       commencement
                                     of the revolution he abandoned the cause of his
                                    country. The gallant John Stark, the hero of Bennington, was
                                    one of his Lieutenants in the French war.
                              
                              "When we embarked in batteaux at Lake George, the sight was most
                                 splendid. It was a bright morning in July, the 5th, I remember, was
                                 the date, and the line advanced in three divisions of boats,
                                 containing more than fifteen thousand men, passing over those
                                 beautiful and transparent waters. The regular troops formed the
                                 centre line of boats, and the Provincials the outer lines. The
                                 advanced guard of boats consisted of Col. Bradstreet's battalion of
                                 batteaux men, flanked by rangers and light troops. The sound of
                                 martial music as it rose over the waters and died away amid the
                                 distant hills—the bright beams of the sun, as they glistened upon
                                 the arms and accoutrements of the soldiers—and the measured stroke
                                 of the boatmen's oars, on that wild, yet beautiful lake, I shall
                                 never forget.
                              "In this order we passed on, though I forgot to say that in the
                                 leading boat—a whale boat that he had made especially for himself
                                 was Colonel Lord Howe, who requested me to accompany him to point
                                 out the localities, landing-places, and other proper spots to
                                 examine, that might be required for the safety of the troops. At
                                 dark the batteaux halted at Sabbath-day Point, where the army was
                                 refreshed, and about nine or ten, again moved onward. At daybreak a
                                 pioneer boat, that had been sent forward especially to reconnoitre
                                 the landing-place, met Lord Howe, in his whale boat, and the
                                 officer in charge, Lieutenant Holmes, reported that he had been,
                                 near enough to perceive a party of the enemy in possession, by the
                                 light of their camp fires.
                              "As soon as day had fairly set in, Howe, with Major Rogers, Colonel
                                 Bradstreet and myself, immediately proceeded to the landing places,
                                 and perceived truly that a small party, and but a small party, of
                                 the enemy was on the shore. We immediately returned back to the
                                 army, to report and arrange as to the landing.
                              "I now volunteered to proceed on shore, near the Blue Mountains,
                                 about four miles from the landing place, and ascertain if Montcalm
                                 with any large number of his forces lay beyond the spot where we
                                 expected to land the main body of the army. Lord Howe accepted my
                                 proposition, and I was accordingly put on shore. I proceeded
                                 cautiously along for some three miles, clambering over rocks and
                                 through thickets, when, on ascending an elevation that gave me full
                                 view of the landing place, I perceived a picket guard of the
                                 French, within forty yards of me. At the landing place I could see
                                 a party of some four or five hundred men drawn up in battle array.
                                 My first impulse was to return at once and report—my next thought
                                 was, if possible, to get a little nearer, and see if things looked
                                 like a determination on the part of the Frenchmen to stand.
                              "In doing this, I was brought within twenty yards of the picket
                                 guard, and a larger party advancing for the relief; at the same
                                 moment a dog came running into the bushes near me, and commenced
                                 barking. A stir took place in the guard, and three or four came at
                                 once towards the spot where I was partially concealed. Of course I
                                 had but one chance of escape, and that was to flee at once. I shook
                                 the priming in my fusee, passed my finger over the flint to know
                                 its fitness for duty, gave a shout of defiance, and started off. Of
                                 course, at times I was in full view of my pursuers, but I was
                                 certain if I reached the other side of the hill, I knew the route
                                 too well for them to overtake me.
                              "Three or four shots were fired at me, but none took injurious
                                 effect, although one ball passed through a small drinking cup that
                                 I usually carried attached to my canteen, and slightly grazed the
                                 skin on the side of my body where it hung. On reaching the top of
                                 the hill, I turned and saw my nearest pursuer, a sub officer,
                                 loading his gun. I took deliberate aim with my fusee, and he fell
                                 without a groan, the ball passing through his head. This stopped
                                 the rest of his followers, and in half an hour's time I reached the
                                 advance portion of the army, passing along the lake near the shore,
                                 under the command of Lord Howe.
                              "His lordship immediately hailed me, and drew in shore with his
                                 boat, and I embarked, giving him an account of my adventure, and
                                 advising him that we should push on immediately to the landing
                                 place, for I did not believe that any resistance would be offered
                                 till the army got into the woods. He took my advice, and we pushed
                                 on rapidly with the batteaux, Calling out to his servant, who was
                                 in the boat, he directed him to take from a basket a bottle of
                                 wine. The latter did so, and handed with the bottle a silver camp
                                 mug to his master. 'Come, Putnam,' said he, as he lifted his mug,
                                 'take hold, and let's drink success.' I placed my hand round to
                                 seize my tin cup, and as I drew it near me, I recollected the
                                 bullet hole, and said to him, 'Excuse me, Lord Howe, but the
                                 Frenchmen have made a sieve of my cup, so I'll e'en swig from the
                                 bottle.' He handed me his camp cup immediately, saying, 'Putnam,
                                 accept this trifling thing from me, and if I should fall, whenever
                                 you drink from it, remember your old comrade and friend, George
                                 Scrope Lord Howe.'
                              "The brave fellow was killed within two hours after by
                                 a musket ball through the head, as you well know, and died within a
                                 few feet of me! He would push on in the front of danger, at the
                                 head of our scouting columns, when it was not the place for him,
                                 but for the provincials, who well knew the mode of warfare. I
                                 advised him not to expose himself. He fell beloved by the whole
                                 army, for he had endeared himself to them by his many noble and
                                 generous acts.*
                                  Two days after, we retreated with our splendid army, after
                                 losing over a thousand men in attempting to storm Ticonderoga. It
                                 was disgraceful. There, Ensign, I have given you the history of
                                 that cup."
                              
                                 
                                 *Lord Howe was killed at the age of 33. He was a great
                                    favorite, particularly with the provincials.—Massachusetts
                                    created a monument to his memory in Westminster Abbey. He was
                                    the elder brother of Admiral Lord Howe, and Sir William Howe,
                                    who commanded here during the first two years of the
                                    revolution. Had he lived, such was his popularity, he
                                    probably could have settled the difficulties between England
                                    and the colonies amicably without striking a blow.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Burnham gazed on it with more interest. The brave and gallant Howe he had often
                     heard his father speak of, and this relic awakened new recollections.
                  After some conversation, of half an hour's continuance, the General rose, and
                     his company followed him out towards the camp. In a few moments, tattoo beat, when each separated to his quarters. It was not long before
                     Burnham fell asleep, for the first time enjoying a soldier's slumber.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  SKIRMISH IN BOSTON HARBOR—THROWING UP THE ENTRENCHMENTS ON
                     BUNKER'S (BREED'S) HILL, THE NIGHT BEFORE THE BATTLE.
                  The next morning, Burnham, after parade, strolled through the camp. The number
                     of men assembled, at this time, in the lines around Boston, amounted to near
                     twelve thousand, though a month or six weeks after they exceeded double that
                     number.
                  Their equipments and appearance were varied. Perhaps, of the whole number, not
                     three hundred were in uniform, but merely the plain dress of farmers; their
                     arms, an old-fashioned musket, seldom possessing a bayonet, a powder horn and a
                     bullet pouch The officers, as well as men, carried muskets or fusees, with swords or espontoons. What they
                     lacked in discipline, they made up in zeal and energy for the cause. The
                     materials for that army, which afterwards conquered on many a field, existed
                     there; time and service were to do the rest.
                  For near a month the whole army continued inactive, but preparing for work,
                     drilling, and exercising continually. The battalion to where Burnham belonged
                     soon became a model of discipline for the whole army, and it was much admired
                     by those old veterans, Putnam, Prescott, Ward, Gridley, Thomas, Stark, Pomeroy,
                     and others, well known in the history of the times. Dr. Joseph Warren, then a
                     leading patriot in the Massachusetts' Congress, also frequently attended the
                     parades of the battalion, with whom Burnham became very intimate, frequently
                     dining at his table, which he made the acquaintance of all the leaders, civil
                     and military, then assembled in the neighborhood of Boston. To Warren,*
                        Burnham became ardently attached.
                  
                     
                     *Warren was not then in military service; he was appointed Major General
                        by the Massachusetts Congress, on the 14th of June, three days before the
                        battle of Bunker's Hill.
                  
                  On the 21st May, 1775, Artemas Ward was commissioned Senior Major General by
                     the Congress of Massachusetts, and assumed command on the lines. His quarters
                     were at Cambridge. Here was the left wing of the army besieging Boston.
                     Putnam's command was in advance of the main body, occupying a redoubt and a
                     slight breastwork on the road to Charlestown, without the neck. The right wing
                     of the army lay at Roxbury, under the command of Brigadier General Thomas.
                  Burnham's company, of Chester's battalion, was quartered with a company of
                     Knowlton's, at a farm-house just outside Charleston Peninsular. From this
                     gallant officer, who was Major in Putnam's†
                      regiment, he acquired much military knowledge; and their mutual
                     friendship terminated only with Knowlton's death, a year afterwards, on the
                     field of glory. He stood nearly six feet in height, of a muscular build, and
                     was capable of enduring any fatigue or suffering.
                  
                     
                     †Putnam had been appointed a Brigadier General by the Connecticut
                        Assembly, in April, but still had a regiment of his own. In Connecticut,
                        all general officers had a regiment and a company.—This was copied from
                        the English system of last century.
                  
                  One day, when Burnham had been in camp a little over a month, he received a
                     note from General Putnam, requesting his attendance at his quarters. On his
                     arrival he found Major Knowlton also there, when he was informed by Putnam that
                     Major Knowlton, with a party of men; were going on to a couple of islands in
                     Boston harbor, for the purpose of making a forage, to drive off some cattle and
                     stock, that would otherwise fall into the hands of the English. Burnham
                     received orders to take thirty of his men and march with Knowlton. With the
                     utmost alacrity he obeyed, and in ten minutes about 200 men, under the command
                     of Knowlton, marched to Chelsea with two six-pounders. Here a party remained on
                     shore with the battery while the remainder crossed over to Hogg Island, drove
                     off the stock, and they passed to Noddle's Point, which was a British battery.
                     Here Burnham, (whom Knowlton had sent over) in spite of a heavy fire, which
                     slightly wounded three of his men, succeeded in obtaining a number of fine
                     horses belonging to the British officers in Boston.
                  Before, however, he had finished entirely the forage, he found himself exposed
                     to the fire of two British tenders, a schooner and a sloop. They had been sent
                     up from the fleet with a party of marines who commenced landing in boats.
                     Knowlton now hailed Burnham from Hogg Island to withdraw his men. The latter
                     gradually withdrew towards a marsh and ditch, where he made a stand, and fired
                     upon the marines, killing two and wounding two others.
                  "Ensign," said Sergeant Ki, "do you see that fellow creeping along in a range
                     with the outer edge of the ditch?"
                  "I do."
                  "Then I want your permission to take him alive."
                  "Very well, Sergeant, be quick about it, for Major Knowlton is making signals
                     for us to cross."
                  Ki bent down behind the ditch, took off his hat, and waved it just above the
                     dyke on the end of his musket. The marine, making sure of his man, fired at the
                     hat with true aim, and the bullet passed through and through, the distance
                     being only some ten yards. Quick as thought, Ki had leaped the top of the dyke
                     and reached the marine, who was too confounded to make any defence, and it was
                     useless when Ki got him in his powerful grasp, for he lifted him up like a
                     child, run back and tossed him completely over the ditch, into the middle of
                     Burnham's men. The prisoner, more frightened than hurt, gathered himself up,
                     and, looking around him, exclaimed, ruefully, "That's the bloodiest way to make
                     a man a prisoner I ever 'eard of."
                  A roar followed this speech, in spite of the firing of the marines, and
                     fortunately the whole party succeeded in reaching Hogg Island, from which, with
                     Knowlton's company, they all crossed over to Chelsea, on the main land, with a
                     large number of cattle. Here Knowlton sent for a reinforcement, which arrived
                     towards night, and a firing now commenced between the two vessels and the party
                     on shore. Putnam himself came down and took command, and the cannonade
                     continued until daybreak, when one of the vessels was blown up, and the other
                        surrendered.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *This affair of Noddle's and Hogg Island 
                        occured
                        occurred
                      on the 27th May, 1775.
                  
                  This little affair, in which Knowlton took good care to praise Burnham's
                     conduct, gave him much eclat, and Ki was presented with the marine's
                     accoutrements by Putnam, and his name mentioned with commendations in general
                     orders.
                  On the afternoon of the 16th of June, Burnham, with four other Lieutenants and
                     Ensigns of the Connecticut regiments, received orders to pick out thirty men
                     each from their respective companies, with thirty rounds of ball cartridges,
                     and one day's provisions in their knap-sacks. About sunset the whole, one
                     hundred and twenty men, assembled in front of Putnam's quarters, and Major
                     Knowlton was placed in command, with orders. They then marched to Cambridge
                     Common, where they found assembled, under the command of the veteran, Col.
                     Prescott; his regiment, with other detachments, and a portion of Gridley's
                     artillery, forming, altogether, about 1200 men. They were drawn up in line, and
                     the Rev. President Langdon, of Harvard College, offered up a brief prayer for
                     success in their undertakings.
                  About nine o'clock at night they got in motion, the gallant Prescott, of
                     Pepperell, at their head, preceded by a few men with dark lanterns, and marched
                     from Cambridge down to Charleston Neck, which they crossed, and ascended
                     Bunker's Hill. This was the spot designated in Prescott's orders to be
                     fortified; but Colonel Gridley, the engineer, was in favor of Breed's Hill,
                     about a quarter of a mile nearer Boston, better known, at that time, as
                     "Breed's pasture." The discussion between Prescott, Gridley, Putnam and other
                     officers, continued some time, when it was finally decided that Breed's
                        Hill*
                      should be the spot selected for the erection of the main redoubt, and
                      that Bunker's Hill could be fortified next morning, if required.
                  
                     
                     *Ask many people if they ever heard of the battle of Breed's Hill, and
                        they will tell you, "No." Yet this famous battle was fought on Breed's,
                        Bunker's Hill, as the engagement is known by
                  
                  Taking up their line of march again, they reached the summit of Breed's Hill,
                     and Gridley, the engineer, proceeded to lay out the entrenchments. It was
                     twelve o'clock at night when the first pick-axe and spade touched the ground,
                     but they were held by men who well knew the use of such tools on their own soil
                     and their own land. True, they never before threw up earth for such a purpose,
                     but in this case it was for their country—the noblest of all deeds. They were
                     not only willing but, as the next day's battle proved, ready to die for "the
                     good old cause."
                  Prescott, with his venerable look and his gray hair waving in the breeze, was
                     the hero of the scene. He had thrown off his blue military coat, and, in his
                     linen or calico frock, was here and there giving directions. Burnham's
                     detachment, with Ki, were busy with the rest, when Prescott's eye fell upon
                     him, as he heard the name of Burnham called by Major Knowlton. He at once
                     addressed him, spoke of his father as an old acquaintance, joked with Ki,
                     telling him "that Frederick of Prussia would have given, in his day, a thousand
                     rix dollars for such a grenadier," and passed on to the rest, giving orders
                     with a familiarity that won all hearts.
                  For hours did the men work incessantly. Now and then, in the stillness of the
                     night, from the British ships lying opposite Charlestown, would be heard the
                     sentry's cry of "All's well!"—all was not well for
                        them. About half an hour before daylight, Burnham's party were
                     relieved by a small detachment that had come up the hill, as volunteers.
                     Throwing himself on a fresh mound of earth, with his company, they took a
                     hurried slumber, the last night's mortal rest that many of them ever took upon
                     earth, for the sun was gradually rising to shine upon BUNKER'S HILL, and set,
                     if not in victory, in bloody triumph over the veteran bands of the mistress of
                     the world!
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "The morning sun hath pierced the night, but where its beams first
                                 fall,
                              It touches with its golden light the soldiers' earthen wall—
                              Yet e'er that sun shall reach the west, 'twill glow above the
                                 slain,
                              And few, of all that valiant band, will see it rise again."
                           
                        
                        —MS. Poem.
                     
                  
                  THE BATTLE OF BUNKER'S HILL.
                  A sound of cannon! another—there was an instant rush from the earthy couch on
                     Breed's Hill, of the few that had betaken themselves to slumber when overtired
                     with the work of the night.
                  It was time—the Lively sloop of war that lay anchored in Charles River had
                     commenced firing upon the redoubt which had been thrown up during the night,
                     overtopping, as it were, the ship herself.
                  Burnham sprang to his feet at the sound of the first gun. He had been lying in
                     an angle of the redoubt in deep slumber, but the cannon had awakened him.
                     Raising himself up, and looking over the curtains of the embankment, which the
                     men were still busy upon, he surveyed the scene. Day had just began to break in
                     the east, though the sun merely gave a sign of soon rising, by the faint line
                     which marked the spot in the horizon, from whence the day god in his journey,
                     takes his way. Looking down towards Charles River, two men-of-war were lying,
                     and the wreaths of smoke which every moment curled up from their sides,
                     together with the flash that glistened for an instant over the waters, and was
                     then followed by the booming sound of the gun, left no doubt on the mind of
                     Burnham as to the spot whence came the salute which had aroused him. Of this,
                     however, he soon had proof demonstrative—he heard a whistling sound, and the
                     next moment a ball from a twelve-pounder struck the glacis, and scattered the earth over him.
                  Burnham, on the spur of the instant, withdrew his head to seek the further
                     covering of the redoubt, not exactly through fear of the shot, but from a kind
                     of intuitive teaching which seemed to say, "do not go where you have no
                     business."
                  "Well, my young friend, Burnham," said a voice near him, "I see you can dodge a
                     shot capitally—it's good of you, lad—good of you."
                  Burnham turned, and saw Col. Prescott, the officer that had spoken to him, and,
                     but a few paces from him, "Old Put," whose lame leg*
                      did not allow him, on foot, to keep even company with rapid
                      marchers.
                  
                     
                     *Owing to an accident, a fracture of the right thigh, Putnam's right leg
                        was an inch shorter than the other.
                  
                  
                  "Sir," said he, in reply, modestly, "I have always understood that it was a
                     good commander who preserves his front from danger, and his rear from
                     observation."
                  "Well said, well said, lad," exclaimed Putnam, who had got near enough to hear
                     and see all that was going on; "the Lively had stirred up her batteries below
                     to some purpose. But what's that? a shell, eh!"
                  The same moment, a shell dropped in the centre of the redoubt, a fuse burning
                     within an instant of its explosion. Burnham knew enough of shells to know their
                     danger and power. Both Putnam and Prescott fell flat upon their faces to let
                     the explosion pass over them, but Burnham, stung a little with the remark of
                     Prescott, about dodging a shot, rushed forward, seized the shell, and with
                     desperation threw it over the glacis, where
                     it exploded the instant it struck the ground.
                  Putnam looked up and burst into a laugh, "I can tell you what it is, Prescott,"
                     said he, "you and I had better keep still, about dodging shot: here is Burnham,
                     now, does not bend even to a shell. Is he not a brave boy?"
                  "Yes, Putnam," said Prescott, as he rose, "You and I have seen a little more of
                     the effect of a shell than the Ensign; and, as we are more cowardly, we have
                     now but to advance."
                  This conversation was but brief, for the discharge of artillery continued with
                     ten-fold vehemence, and now, as the sun began to rise, it seemed as if the
                     cannoneers were more vigorous than ever.
                  The redoubt, in which over a thousand men were assembled, was, in itself,
                     really the last place of resort for men accustomed to artillery or its use. But
                     a few, of all those present, knew anything about artillery, yet some four
                     pieces, of different calibre, were dragged down to the humble redoubt, of eight
                     yards square, for the purpose of firing upon Boston.
                  What could have been the promptings of the members of the Provincial Congress
                     at Watertown, when they ordered the detachment on Bunker's Hill, surprises
                     military men: it is sufficient to know that they were placed in that position,
                     and that the entrenchment thrown up was to be defended—true it was
                     defended; but when we look upon the thing, at this day, what was there to have
                     prevented General Gage from capturing the whole of the number that went on the
                     hill, if his troops, instead of landing at the point they did, had landed on
                     Charlestown Neck, and thrown up entrenchments with the artillery they
                     possessed, to defend their position?—Nothing.
                  Prescott and Putnam, after the little reminiscence I have recorded, went
                     outside of the works to examine the position of things. Two ships of war, the
                     Lively and Somerset, still continued to pour their shot, not only upon the
                     redoubt but upon the Neck, where occasionally a company or two of stragglers
                     joined their fellows upon the Hill, in spite of the cannon-shot.
                  While the two commanders were outside of the works, Burnham had some little
                     chance to see what was going on, inside The men had thrown aside their coats
                     and jackets, for the day was intensely hot, to taste a scant breakfast. Their
                     cold meat and bread was not amiss, for they had been sent upon the Hill with a
                     day's provisions, though probably few thought, at the time, it was to be the
                     last meal they should ever partake of.
                  It was truly a glorious day. I will fix the hour, as Burnham gazed upon the
                     scene. He had taken, with his men, his slight breakfast; (slight, because, in
                     our opinion of a morning's meal, it lacked all the little niceties.) It was
                     eight o'clock. In gazing around, the scene was magnificent. Burnham saw the
                     grain crops, almost ready for the sickle; the grass towards Mystic river had
                     been mown the day before, and now lay in winnows along the rear of the redoubt.
                     Ah! in a few hours, the then living were destined to lie in similar winnows,
                     beneath the scythe of death.
                  In a short time, not only the batteries from the ships, but from Boston opened
                     upon the little fortress on the hill. Gage had been aroused at early daylight
                     by the sound of cannon, and to his complete amazement, saw that the spot
                        he intended to 
                        obcupy
                        occupy
                      on the 18th, on the heights of Charlestown,*
                      was already in possession of the rebels. In a few moments
                     he had ordered up the eighteen pounders of the battalion of Royal Artillery on
                     Copp's Hill, and commenced firing upon the work. The earthen ramparts of the
                     Americans were too strong for the shot, and it is a fact that but one man was
                     killed by Gage's batteries during the engagement.
                  
                     
                     *See General Burgoyne's letter to his reputed father, the Earl of Derby,
                        dated Boston, June 25, 1775.
                  
                  About nine o'clock in the morning, Prescott called a council of his officers to
                     consult as to the necessity of a relief. No braver man ever commanded a body of
                     men, than Col. William Prescott. He was a soldier of firmness, energy and
                     bravery, a man indeed of few equals in moments of energy and decision.
                  This consultation had been called by the request of a few officers, who thought
                     that their men required a relief from the night's labor. It was held in the
                     corner of the redoubt, where Prescott briefly stated the reasons of his calling
                     his brother officers together.
                  "Why, Colonel," said Burnham, after listening to the harangues of two or three
                     officers who really appeared anxious to leave the hill, "you have taken your
                     breakfast, these gentlemen have taken theirs, what relief is necessary? I came
                     upon the Hill with the company I belong to, to fight. We will not leave this
                     spot without a brush."
                  "Bravely spoken," said Prescott, in reply. "Now, gentlemen, to your duty.
                        We erected the redoubt, and should defend it."†
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     †The actual reply of Prescott, on the morning of the battle. Some accounts
                        state that the men had nothing to eat. This is wrong—the men who went
                        upon the hill had a day's provision with them.
                  
                  It may be as well to state that Putnam had at this time left the hill
                     temporarily, but it was only temporarily, for no man on that day showed more
                     devotion than the old General. About ten o'clock there appeared particular
                     movements on the Boston side. The sound of music rose upon the breeze, and ever
                     and anon as Burnham looked through Prescott's glass, he could see the dashing
                     of orderlies through the streets, and the movements of large bodies of
                     soldiery, though their destination none could judge of.
                  It may now be as well to describe the fortress or redoubt thrown up on Breed's
                     Hill. It was a work of seven or eight yards square, yet owing to the
                     inequalities of the ground it had not been thrown up with perfect mathematical
                     accuracy. Yet this should not be said either as reflecting upon the engineer's,
                     for Colonel Gridley was really an able officer but in this case he did not
                     think fully of the attack and the probable course of defence.
                  The work was thrown up rather more facing Charleston than Boston, and the front
                     of it was what is called in the science of fortification a redan and fleche,
                     a species of fortification generally pitched upon, in the erection of sudden
                     field works. Behind this redoubt were some twelve hundred troops, and more
                     ascending the hill on occasion, so that about ten o'clock full fifteen hundred
                     men were assembled on Bunker's, or Breed's, Hill.
                  About this hour, say ten o'clock, Col. Prescott came to Burnham, and the
                     following conversation passed between them.
                  "My young friend, I am certain, from the movements on the British side, that we
                     shall be attacked. I wish you would instantly go to Cambridge, and request
                     General Ward to be ready with such reinforcements as I may require during the
                     day. Tell him we are well encamped, hoping for the best, yet dreading the
                     worst."
                  Burnham received the orders with enthusiasm, and immediately left the hill on
                     his way to execute his commission. He had not gone far before he met with a
                     company of artillery that had descended from Bunker's Hill, and were on their
                     way towards Breed's Heights.
                  "Ah! Callender," said Burnham, "here I am on foot, lend me one of your extra
                     horses, I am on special duty."
                  "Can't do it, Ensign," was the reply.—"Ward has been giving me quite a lecture
                     for not being on the hill before, and Putnam swears he will have me hung if I
                     do not have my little battery on the heights before eleven o'clock."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Captain Callender was cashiered for cowardice in abandoning his cannon at
                        Bunker's Hill. Stung with disgrace, he enlisted in the same company he
                        had commanded, as a private, and at the battle of Long Island fought his
                        piece until saved by a British officer, who was thunderstruck at his
                        bravery. He was re-commissioned, Washington writing him a handsome
                        letter.
                  
                  Some of the cannon were brought up, and from the curtains of the redoubt a few
                     shot were thrown towards Boston, but they fell short, and Prescott at once
                     ordered no more wasting of powder. It has been stated of late years that no
                     field artillery was fired on either side, owing to a mistake in furnishing the
                     fixed ammunition. It was not so—a few shots were fired from the side of the
                     Americans early in the morning, while the British field pieces kept up a
                     constant fire during the period of their landing and march up the hill.
                  In the mean time Burnham pursued his way, and fortunately borrowed a horse from
                     a farmer 
                        jhst
                        just
                      outside of the neck. He made his way with all haste to Cambridge, the
                     head quarters of Gen. Ward, and delivered to him the message from Col.
                     Prescott.
                  "Return, instantly, Ensign, and tell the Colonel I shall order up Stark's and
                     Reed's New Hampshire regiments, they being nearest the lines. Ho! there,
                     Orderly; carry instant word to Colonels Stark and Reed to form their regiments.
                     Adjutant Eastman, see to the delivery of ammunition to the reinforcement."
                  Burnham waited no longer than to hear the order—turned his horse's head, and in
                     a short time was again at Charlestown neck, where he returned the horse to his
                     owner; crossing the neck, he soon reached his comrades in the redoubt, and
                     hastened to deliver Ward's reply to Col. Prescott.
                  "Good, my young Ensign, good; now every man to his duty; we have a sharp day's
                     work before us."
                  About eleven o'clock, Prescott directed Knowlton, with his Connecticut troops,
                     together with some two or three hundred of his own regiment, to take post on
                     the left of the redoubt, where a slight breastwork had been thrown up, the
                     redoubt being already too much crowded with men. Knowlton immediately left the
                     fort to take the position pointed out.
                  It was the heat of June, and the husband-men the day before had mown the grass
                     upon "Breed's pasture," and it was now piled in cocks about the height. One or
                     two rail fences ran across the land, dividing the inheritance of each
                     proprietor, upon whose soil was soon to rage the tempest and fury of battle.
                     The soldiers instantly seized upon the fences and formed a rude abatis, filling and covering the interstices with
                     the new mown hay, erecting a breastwork nearly on a level with their heads
                     looking twice as formidable for defence as it was in reality.
                  About this time the first man was killed on the side of the Americans. He had
                     gone outside of the redoubt without orders, and was struck by a cannon ball. A
                     little incident occurred on this occasion which is not generally known.
                  "What shall be done with Pollard's†
                      body, Colonel?" said the Captain of the company to which the man
                      belonged.
                  
                     
                     †The name of the man first killed was Asa Pollard, of Billerica, Mass.
                  
                  "Bury him in the ditch.
                  "What! without prayers?" said the astonished Captain, who was also a deacon
                     when at home.
                  "How do you expect to find any one that will pray yonder, with the cannon shot
                     playing round them?" replied Prescott.
                  "Oh, as to that matter, here is our Chaplain, and he will see that Pollard has
                     honorable burial."
                  Strange as it may appear, a party of men left the redoubt with the Chaplain,
                     and buried the dead soldier, without receiving any injury themselves. Prayers were actually said over his
                     grave, in spite of the whistling of the shot around them!
                  To Burnham the scene was entirely new.—He was now really to figure in and
                     behold the terrors of war. When the party to which he was attached threw up the
                     rail fence above the breastwork, he planted on one corner the standard of the
                     company, and a shout rang along the lines as it was unfolded in the morning
                     breeze. He entreated Ki, if it should be his lot to fall in the action, not to
                     let the banner go into the hands of the enemy, but to preserve it as he would
                     his life.
                  "Never fear, Ensign, about the Oakdale banner—not a man comes out of Boston
                     that will carry it off this day." KI KEPT HIS WORD.
                  Let us now take a look in the British lines at Boston. On Copp's Hill, fronting
                     Charlestown, a heavy battery had been erected, and a constant fire kept up on
                     the redoubt at Bunker's Hill. This battery was worked by detachments of the
                     royal artillery, a famous regiment in managing cannon.
                  Within the battery were grouped a large number of officers whose uniform and
                     the respect shown them by the junior officers and men, bespoke them of no
                     subordinate rank. Four of them I will particularly describe. The senior in age
                     and the principal officer it appeared from the defence shown him, was dressed
                     in a scarlet coat, faced with buff, brilliantly decorated with gold lace, the
                     peculiar uniform of the regiment called the "King's Own." His years were about
                     sixty, his countenance not unpleasing, and his stature of the middle height. He
                     had a spy-glass in his hand with which from time to time he looked towards the
                     works on Bunker's Hill, and occasionally he took a large pinch of snuff from
                     the left pocket of his military vest. This was GENERAL GAGE, Commander-in-chief
                     of his majesty's forces in America.
                  On his left, stood a tall, well-built, soldierly-looking man, some forty-five
                     years of age. His uniform was equally rich with the other officer, and he wore
                     a red ribbon with a glittering star on his left breast. His manner and whole
                     appearance indicated one who moved in the highest ranks. This officer was SIR
                     WILLIAM HOWE, brother of Admiral Lord Howe, afterwards Commander-in-chief, for
                     a time, in the revolted colonies.
                  A little to the right of Gage, was another officer, who, at a later period,
                     figured much in the war of independence, and proved the most unfortunate of all
                     the British commanders. He was not very tall, of a corpulent make, and he bore
                     about him an expression of hauteur, that
                     seemed to say to ordinary lookers-on, "look out for my dignity." Still there
                     was nothing disagreeable in his manners, for they were rather the habit of high
                     birth and association. It was Major General Sir HENRY CLINTON, son of the Earl
                     of Lincoln.
                  Another officer, the fourth in rank, and the youngest, had a pleasing
                     expression of countenance, and perhaps to the phrenologist, his head would have
                     seemed the most intellectual and ambitious of the group. His figure was manly,
                     his carriage and air engaging, and his look seemed less agitated by the scene
                     on Bunker's Hill than his elder companions. His dress was remarkably elegant
                     and neat—uniform of the 4th regt. of foot. This officer was Gen. JOHN BURGOYNE,
                     the hero of Valentia de Alcantara,*
                      who afterwards lost his laurels at Saratoga. He was a natural son of
                      the Earl of Derby.
                  
                     
                     *The battle of Valentia de Alcantara, on the frontiers of Spain and
                        Portugal, was fought by Burgoyne on 27th August, 1762. Charles Lee was
                        then a Col. in the British service.
                  
                  Around this group of officers stood others less in rank, but not less known at
                     that time in the colonies. Among them there were Lord Percy, of the Dragoons,
                     and Major Pitcairne, of the Marines, participants in the actions at Lexington
                     and Concord—Col. Abercrombie. Majors Spendlove and Williams, Captains Sherwin,
                     Addison, and others, most of whom in a few hours were destined to die upon the
                     hill on the Charlestown side.
                  "General Howe," said Gage, taking down his glass, "the hour is close at hand
                     for a stop to be put to this business on the heights yonder—these
                        rebels are the most persevering fellows I ever saw. As
                        you were destined to take possession of the hills in general
                     orders, before we expected a demonstration of this kind, you shall lead the
                     troops to dislodge them, if you request it. It will be the post of honor. They
                     cannot long stand a charge from our regular troops, backed by our artillery. Do
                     you not agree with me?"
                  "I claim it, General Gage, as a matter of right. As to their standing a charge
                     of ours, I shall not stop to reason about it. My duty is to take possession of
                     the heights, and we have men enough to do it. Gentlemen," said he, turning to
                     Clinton and Burgoyne, "farewell! Come Sherwin†
                     —now for duty!" and he left the battery, followed by his aid-de-camp.
                  
                     
                     †Captain Sherwin, of the 67th—he was killed by the side of Howe at the
                        first fire from Bunker's Hill.
                  
                  "General Clinton," said Gage, "I wish you to be ready to take charge of
                     reinforcements, should Howe require them. Burgoyne, look to the batteries; I go
                     to witness the embarkation of Howe and his troops;" and Gage followed with his
                        aid de camps the steps of Howe.
                  "Clinton," said Burgoyne, "I think this will turn out a worse undertaking than
                     we think for. The men that erected that redoubt must have some one leading them
                     that understands military tactics. We shall not take it so easily."
                  "The rascals will not stand the landing of our troops and our military
                     cannonade, depend upon it, Burgoyne," was the reply of Clinton. "What can they
                     do? Their resistance must end in defeat, and the gallows follows next.—If they
                        do make a stand, why we can send a reinforcement that will
                     finish the business, and I will lead them. Now let the batteries fire
                     away."
                  Burgoyne made no reply to the former portion of Clinton's remarks, for he
                     thought the resistance would be as vigorous as it afterwards wards turned out
                     to be. He however directed the batteries to play as strong as ever upon the
                     redoubt, and a brisk and terrible cannonade was kept up from the eighteen
                     pounders, whilst the Lively and Somerset, men-of-war, continued a cross fire of
                     grape and bar shot, across Charlestown Neck, from Charles River.
                  About 12 o'clock, when a hot and cloudless sun poured down its beams, without
                     shade or shelter, on Long Wharf, Boston, an immense number of boats from the
                     shipping in the harbor were there gathered to take on board a portion of the
                     detachment under Howe, destined to attack the Americans on Breed's, or Bunker's
                     Hill.
                  The scene was not exactly a pleasant one to a looker-on, for many women and
                     children, the wives and offspring of the soldiery about to engage in deadly
                     conflict, were taking their last farewell of husbands and parents, amid screams
                     and lamentations. It was customary at that period for the English regiments
                     when embarking for colonies in America, to receive liberty from the war-office
                     for the men to take with them their wives and children. During peace it was the
                     policy of the government to add to the population of their provinces in North
                     America, for after the expiration of the terms of service, many of the solders
                     remained with their families settlers in the colonies. Thus it happened that
                     most of the regiments in Boston contained en familis
                     numerous wives and children. Such separations can be as well imagined as
                     described.
                  Another portion of the troops under Howe had arrived in Boston Harbor but a few
                     days before from Europe, and had not yet stepped on shore. Poor
                     fellows! they left their mother earth of England to land upon a soil three
                     thousand miles off, where their first and last stepping place was the grave! It
                     was truly "dust to dust!" To the sound of the "martial and merry airs of
                     England" did two thousand men, the flower of the British army, embark in the
                     boats of the shipping in the harbor, and were pulled round by the blue jackets
                     of the fleet to the Charlestown peninsula.
                  It was a little after one o'clock when Howe with his troops landed at Morton's
                     Point, on the Charlestown side. These troops consisted of ten companies of
                     grenadiers and ten of light infantry. The grenadiers were flank companies of
                     the same regiments to which most of the light infantry companies belonged, all
                     from the fourth, fifth, tenth, twenty-third, thirty-fifth, thirty-eighth,
                     forty-third, fifty-second, fifty-ninth and sixty-fifth regiments, and four
                     battalions from the fifth, thirty-eighth, forty-third and fifty-second
                     regiments of the British army. Two companies of artillery with six pieces of
                     twelve pounder cannon accompanied the detachment. They landed without
                     opposition on the low grounds extending from the hill, and but a few hundred
                     yards from the redoubt. Howe rested his men as they landed, and permitted them
                     to take their dinner, they having brought over twenty-four hours' provisions in
                     their haversacks, it being intended that the troops should occupy the peninsula
                     after the capture. Howe, with two or three of his officers, advanced towards a
                     brick kiln within two hundred yards of the American redoubts to
                     reconnoitre.
                  We must now go back into the lines on Bunker's Hill, and see what was going on
                     there. Prescott had sent a few companies of the least disciplined of his men to
                     occupy a couple of barns and houses near the road that led to Charlestown, for
                     the purpose of embarrassing the British troops that might attack him in that
                     direction. None of the reinforcements, except a few stragglers, had yet reached
                     him as he expected, from Ward's message by Burnham. The latter took his
                     position in the redoubt when the troops commenced landing, and eagerly surveyed
                     the scene from the breastwork.
                  The scene was indeed a magnificent one. The bright sun glared in splendor upon
                     the burnished arms of over two thousand of the finest troops in the world,
                     furnished with every equipment that adds beauty to the appearance of a soldier.
                     The tossing plumes, the glittering array, the exact evolutions as the men took
                     their positions in line, together with the fine martial music from their
                     stirring military bands, conjured up in the breast of Burnham a strange
                     feeling. His eye looked more bright, his nostrils dilated, and his voice almost
                     essayed to "ha! ha!" with the noise of the trumpet.
                  He turned for a moment and surveyed the appearance of his own countrymen, in
                     the redoubt and on the lines. What a difference! No brilliant uniform, no music
                     but a single drum and life, no arms glistening in the sunbeams from bright
                     polished barrels, no sharp pointed bayonets, save here and there one; ox horns
                     mostly for powder-flasks; bullets and buck-shot loose in their pockets; some
                     with coats, some without, and as for discipline—alas, the contrast!—it was
                     indeed strange for the eye, after witnessing the steady movements of England's
                     warriors.
                  Burnham looked again at the enemy, and again at his countrymen. What did he
                     see? On one side a hireling soldiery, who fought because they were ordered and
                     paid so to do; on the other side, rough but manly forms!—Hearts and hands alike
                     strong and free! Arms ready to do or die! They came to battle for a good
                     cause—the cause of right and of freedom! They were standing upon their own
                     soil—a soil which had been the gift of their fathers, after years of labor and
                     sacrifice expended to win it. Should they tamely submit? No! They were freemen,
                     fighting on their NATIVE LAND.
                  "Come, Burnham, this will not do," said a voice, which at once aroused the
                     young man's thoughts to his immediate duty; "see, you are exposing yourself to
                     every shot from Cop's Hill—there!"
                  Burnham had recognized the voice of Warren, and he at once turned to address
                     him, leaping at the same time from the half-formed parapet of the redoubt. It
                     was well he did so, for at Warren's exclamation of "there!" a cannon ball
                     touched the edge of the rampart where Burnham had been gazing, scattering the
                     earth around in all directions. But for the remark of Warren, his head would
                     have been taken off by the shot.
                  
                  "A narrow escape, dear General. But what are you doing here—to command?"
                     exclaimed Burnham.
                  "He will not take it," replied Col. Prescott, "although my superior in rank. 
                        Oeneral
                        General
                      Warren, I again tender you the command of the redoubt."
                  "Col Prescott, I came here as a volunteer, assuming no command, and wishing
                     none.—Give me a musket, and let me, under an old veteran like yourself, learn
                     something of war. As to taking command, I shall do no such thing, nor have I
                     any right. You were placed here to defend the hill; through your exertions this
                     redoubt has been raised, and YOU shall have the honor of its defence. I will be
                     a private soldier under you—in this battle at any rate."
                  Prescott bowed, and left for another portion of the works, issuing his orders
                     with the calmness and decision of a veteran. Warren and Burnham gazed after him
                     with feelings of admiration. The old soldier had thrown off his wig, for the
                     weather was exceedingly hot, and his bald head, as he now and then removed his
                     hat to wipe away the perspiration, glistened in the sunbeams.
                  "A brave old man, Burnham!" said Warren, who was the first to speak. "But where
                     is your company? I do not see any of them in the redoubt here;" and he glanced
                     around with a quick and rapid eye from part to part of the redoubt.
                  "No, General, they are at the breastwork to the left, and I must join them, for
                     the enemy are already forming. Will you see that part of the lines, sir?"
                  "Yes, Ensign, if Putnam and Knowlton are there. I should like to have a word or
                     two to say to the old Wolf Killer."
                  "Putnam was not there when I left, General, but I presume he has returned by
                     this time."
                  The two officers passed from the rear of the redoubt to the breastwork, some
                     hundred yards in its rear; and when they reached the lines, they found Putnam
                     standing by some brass cannon which had recently been brought across the
                     neck.
                  "Ah! Warren, I must again tell you, as I told you on the neck yonder, this is
                     no place for you. You are now at the head of civil power in Massachusetts,
                     President of its Congress, and a Major General; yet here I find you as a
                     volunteer. I consider it my duty, sir, to put you under arrest, and send you
                     back to Watertown."
                  "Why, Putnam," replied Warren, jocularly, "I believe you and Prescott wish to
                     monopolize the whole of this business, and will not let a volunteer officer
                     even fire his gun without your permission."
                  "We have too few men like you, Warren, to put up for targets. Prescott and
                     myself are getting old, and a bullet through either of us would only kill old
                     soldiers. Hark! the British lines are forming, and, by the trumpets of Israel,
                     they have opened their field pieces upon us."
                  It was true; the troops were forming into line under the sound of music, and
                     sheltered by their field pieces, which began to play furiously in advance upon
                     the redoubt. Their slow march up the hill was beautiful in the extreme. From
                     time to time they halted, allowing the artillery to play, and then again, as
                     the booming sound died away, the music of the bands came wafted up in the air,
                     filling friend and foe alike with enthusiasm and fear as to success on their
                     respective sides.
                  At this time, say about two o'clock, the New Hampshire regiments, under Stark
                     and Reed, reached the scene of conflict, making a rapid march across Bunker's
                     Hill, and reaching the lower edge of the rail fence where Knowlton was
                     stationed with the Connecticut troops.—Putnam immediately directed Stark to
                     take a position on the left, skirting Mystic river, to bar the progress of the
                     British troops in that direction from getting in the rear of the redoubt. The
                     New Hampshire boys gave three cheers, and took up their position as directed,
                     throwing up a breastwork of fence and hay similar to that of Putnam's.
                  "Now, General Warren, let us take a look at the redoubt. I shall return,
                     Knowlton, before the attack commences on our portion of the lines." And the two
                     generals took their way up the side of the declivity, and disappeared in the
                     entrenchment.
                  "Load all, officers and men!" was the command of Knowlton
                  The order was obeyed on the instant. No form of discipline was required on such
                     an occasion. Officers as well as men carried fusees, and fired equally with
                     their men in the celebrated action of Breed's, or Bunker's Hill.
                  "Look to your flints, chip their edges, and then prime!" was the next
                     command.
                  For a few seconds the sound of ramrods charging home, the pecking of flints,
                     and the opening and shutting of pans was heard along the breastwork. It was a
                     moment of coolness and decision on the part of Knowlton, for but few of his men
                     or officers, with the exception of himself and one or two others, were ever in
                     action before.
                  "Officers! march—to the centre advance!" was the next order, given in the
                     military terms of the day.
                  The officers advanced to the centre, where Knowlton, leaning on his fusee,
                     surveyed them, with the eagle eye of a soldier, from left to right as they
                     stood around him, and then addressed them.
                  "Brother officers, it is a matter of duty that I should say a few words to you
                     on this occasion. We are defending our own land, yonder is the enemy. Shall we
                     beat him or not? I think we can teach them a lesson at any rate. We have been
                     ordered to defend this position, and we must do it come what will.
                     Let us declare at once, that we will not give up this post, unless ordered to
                     do so by our superior officers."
                  "Aye, aye," shouted the officers, and the men catching up the words they ran
                     along the line.
                  "This is only what I supposed," said Knowlton, after a pause, "now then return
                     to your posts. Putnam will be with us before the enemy get within firing
                     distance, and to him we must look for orders. To your duty, brother officers,
                     to your duty!"
                  Burnham was turning on his heel to proceed to his position at the extreme end
                     of the breastwork nearest the redoubt, where the tall figure of Ki stood beside
                     the banner, resembling a giant of old defending his painted castle, when
                     Knowlton thus spoke.
                  "Burnham, you have got a bad position to defend, for your station is on the
                     unguarded portion of the breastwork next to the redoubt, through which the
                     English troops will probably strike us in the rear. Do your duty, my brave lad,
                     and send that 
                        Goliah
                        Goliath
                      of yours to Putnam or myself when you want orders."
                  "Captain Knowlton, we Oakdale boys have sworn to defend the post to the last
                     extremity and we will do it. As for Ki, my 
                        Goliah
                        Goliath
                     , as you call him, you will find that in heart and bravery, he is as
                     powerful as his outward form predicts." With this remark, Burnham returned to
                     his position, relating, on his reaching it, to Ki and his men, the conversation
                     that had occurred. They expressed in the strongest terms their determination,
                     after such a speech, to defend their post to the last extremity.
                  Soon after, Putnam, on horseback, came rushing down the hill to the lines,
                     where he dismounted and tied his horse to an apple tree that stood in the rear
                     of the breastwork. He came forward as fast as his lame leg would let him, and
                     passing along the lines, said.—
                  "Now, my boys, the enemy are advancing. They think you'll run at the appearance
                     of a charge, because they are disciplined and you are not. Now I know you—you
                     can pick out a squirrel's head if not his eye, at the right distance. Is a
                     man's head less than a squirrel's. Don't fire till I give the word, and then
                     look straight at the whites of their eyes. Be particular, and
                     remember the officers. Strike up there, you drummer and fifier, as if the walls
                     of Jericho were to fall before the rams' horns of Israel."
                  The drum and the fife did strike up a good old tune, which seemed to tickle all
                     ears along the lines and in the redoubt, the drummers and fifers caught it up,
                     the soldier-farmers heard it, and three startling cheers rose up from the whole
                     band of patriots on the hill, sending an echo abroad that for a moment stopped
                     the ranks of the British on their way to the heights.
                  "What does that sound mean?" said General Howe to his aid, Captain Sherwin, as
                     they advanced to the head of the British troops.
                  "Really, I am at a loss to say, sir," was the reply.
                  Bah! what did they know of it. It was the glorious tune of YANKEE DOODLE!
                        Esto perpetua.
                  And now onward they come—the light infantry companies advancing along the shore
                     of Mystic river—the grenadiers making a deploy to the right of the redoubt,
                     after filing around the road which formed the circuit of the hill, while the
                     forty-third, thirty-eighth, 
                        fiifty-second
                        fifty-second
                      and fifth battalions, advanced in the position designated in the
                     orders of Howe.
                  In these movements, it happened that the battalion of the fifth regiment,
                     together with a portion of the light infantry company of the twenty-third, or
                     Royal Welch Fusileers, (a company from a regiment which had particularly
                     distinguished itself in the battle of Minden, many years before,) advanced
                     quietly along the lines where Burnham and his comrades were stationed. Their
                     gorgeous uniforms glittering in the sun, gave them a beautiful appearance as
                     they advanced up the hill. Here it was that Howe, himself, led the attack.
                  On they come!
                  Glorious moment!—glorious to those defending their soil! Orders had been
                     strictly given not to fire until forty yards only were between them and their
                     enemy—a distance where the "whites of their eyes" could be fully seen. In the
                     meantime, the bands of the British regiment played their merriest conquering
                     tunes, whilst the Americans listened with eager ears, and gazed with still
                     stronger emotions, awaiting only the moment, with guns resting on the
                     breastwork, the orders to fire.
                  Putnam leaned over the centre of the breastwork, watching every movement. From
                     time to time his eye glanced along the range of muskets lying upon the top of
                     the rough entrenchment, behind which was resting a body of men, with their
                     fingers upon the triggers, taking aim, yet awaiting the word of command to
                     fire.
                  Nearer and nearer come the enemy! Their music does not the less seem to play,
                     nor their martial 
                        appeaaance
                        appearance
                      to falter; but they are advancing to meet with—DEATH! It was indeed a
                     beautiful sight to behold, from the humble redoubt and lines of the Americans,
                     the advance of such splendid troops. Their march seemed as if on parade.
                  "Remember my instructions, men," rang the voice of Putnam; "you shall soon have
                     the order to fire as you please."
                  It was indeed instantaneous—a light curl of smoke from the redoubt, and, ere
                     the report had reached the breastwork, the voice of Putnam exclaimed, in a
                     voice of thunder—
                  "FIRE!"
                  In a second, there rang along the line a continuous roar of musketry,
                     resembling a distant cannonade. Each man loaded and fired as fast as possible,
                     until the smoke completely concealed the enemy. Burnham had loaded and fired
                     half a dozen times, and so had Ki.—Indeed the eagerness of men and officers on
                     this occasion was noted. Two or three men were wounded in the detachment, but
                     not very seriously.
                  "Well, Burnham, what think you of our fire?" said a voice through the smoke
                     which had blown up the hill from the enemy's guns, so as almost to hide every
                     one a few feet off.
                  "It has been very severe, and I trust has been effectual, Knowlton."
                  "Listen."
                  Deep groans and screams of agony were now plainly heard with faint mounds from
                     the wounded and dying, and when the smoke fairly passed over, Good God! what a
                     sight met the eye. From every part of the hill where the English had been fired
                     upon, their men lay in rows upon the ground, like grain beneath the sickle of
                     the reaper! Some rested ed still, to
                     move no more—others were writhing in pain and agony. Some crawled along upon
                     their hands and knees, looking piteously towards the lines, as if imploring
                     relief and pity. Officers and men lay alike upon the field, amid the dead and
                     the dying, there was no distinction in the aim of the Americans. And this was
                     the fate of most of that brilliant array of soldiery which, a few moments
                     before, challenged, in their beautiful evolutions, the admiration of the
                     world!
                  The remains of the British army had retreated out of musket-shot, towards the
                     beach, and the officers were seen to meet in consultation around General Howe. 
                        Immeditely
                        Immediately
                      afterwards a boat was seen to leave for the Boston side, and it was
                     supposed, on the hill, she was despatched with orders for reinforcements.
                  A wounded 
                        offieer
                        officer
                      was seen creeping towards the breastwork, marking his way with blood.
                     Burnham requested permission from Knowlton to pass over the breastwork and aid
                     him to reach the 
                        sheltor
                        shelter
                      he was seeking. The permission was granted, and he and Ki immediately
                     got over, and proceeding onward bore him in their arms together inside the
                     breast work. He was suffering from a severe wound through the body, and could
                     only express his thanks by his looks, and a sign for water.
                  A little spirits and water were given him, which revived him some, and he
                     stated that he was Captain Marsden, of the 5th regiment; that he had been in
                     the campaigns in Germany and at Minden, but never before did he witness so
                     perfect and cruel a fire. He was carried a little to the rear of the lines and
                     laid under a tree, to shelter him from the sun, where a volunteer surgeon
                     proceeded to examine his distressing wound.
                  In the course of half an hour, boats were seen leaving Boston, loaded with
                     troops under the command of Clinton. This 
                        reinforeement
                        reinforcement
                      consisted of the forty-seventh regiment, two battalions of marines
                     and some light infantry companies. They landed more towards the centre of the
                     American works, towards Charlestown In a short time the lines were again in
                     motion, advancing as before, Clinton and Pigot's command making a circular
                     movement to attack the redoubt on the Charles-town river side.
                  Their movements as seen from the redoubt and lines were more beautiful than
                     before. The precision with which they marched—the glaring of the sun upon their
                     accoutrements and the sound of the bands on the shore, with the dead and dying
                     between them and the enemy they were to attack, made the scene grandly
                     romantic. Suddenly, rockets and shells from Burgoyne's battery were thrown into
                     Charlestown, and the whole place, built mostly of wood, was in flames. The tall
                     spire of the village church, around which the crackling flames twisted
                     themselves like fiery serpents, seemed a beacon to light up more furiously than
                     ever the hatred of the Americans.
                  "They shall pay dearly for this," said one soldier to another.
                  "Yes," replied another, as he put two bullets into his gun, "some one will take
                     a double dose of lead for that fire yonder."
                  On came tho British soldiers. They were allowed to reach the same distance as
                     before; the same order was given to fire, and another sheet of flame, with its
                     fatal messengers of death, passed along the ranks, cutting down hundreds of
                     men; and they recoiled again, in spite of all that their officers could do, and
                     fled down the hill. It seemed to them butchery—and it was so in reality.
                  But now the ammunition of the Americans began to fail, and no reinforcements
                     came to their relief. Several regiments were on Bunkers' Hill, but a few
                     hundred yards off, yet the cowardice of their officers was such that they would
                     not advance, on account of the fire from the vessels of war, which raked the
                     rear of the ground between them and their gallant countrymen.
                  Burnham left the breastwork and went up into the redoubt, for the purpose of
                     getting some ammunition, having fired all his own away. He there saw
                     Warren.
                  "Ah! Burnham, is not this a glorious day for our country?"
                  "Yes, General, the harbinger of success and triumph, I hope, for our
                     cause."
                  "I may not live to witness the end of this business of to-day,"
                     replied Warren; "but whoever does, will see a new country in the rank of
                     nations."
                  This was the last meeting between Burnham and Warren. In fifteen minutes after,
                     that glorious and high-minded patriot rested forever with the dead.
                  Failing to get even a single charge of powder, Burnham returned to the
                     breastwork, where but half the troops had ammunition sufficient to load again.
                     And now came the third and final advance of the British troops. They were
                     received with another fatal discharge; but on the right of the redoubt the
                     forty-seventh regiment, with the marines, succeeded in getting into the rear,
                     and a hand-to-hand fight took place, with clubbed muskets and British bayonets.
                     Other regiments succeeded in mounting the redoubt, and orders were now given to
                     retreat, from every portion of the lines, across Charlestown Neck. But little
                     discipline of course was to be expected in the retreat of the Americans; it
                     more resembled a melee, where every man looks
                     out for himself.
                  Knowlton formed his men in good order, and retreated slowly, although the fifth
                     regiment and some grenadiers were in rapid pursuit. Burnham was in the rear
                     carrying the standard of his company, and had turned a moment to look toward
                     the redoubt, when a party of the enemy not six yards off fired into the
                     company. He felt a ball pass through his hip, and attempted to move, 
                        bu 
                        but
                      fell, still holding the banner. A dozen grenadiers with fixed
                     bayonets rushed towards him, when Ki with a party of the company turned to save
                     him. A bloody struggle took place over his body.
                  "For God's sake! never mind me, save the flag—save the flag!" cried
                     Burnham.
                  With one sweep of his clubbed musket, Ki's powerful arm prostrated three of the
                     grenadiers diers. He seized the banner and attempted to raise Burnham.
                  "Fly, Ki! fly!" faintly said the latter. "It is impossible to carry me; do not
                        lose the banner. Go! I entreat of you."
                  Ki gave one look, which spoke the feeling of his heart, then turned and fled
                     down the hill, waving the standard in triumph. Burnham watched his safe
                     retreat, a faintness came over him, he gently murmured "thank God that
                        it's safe," and the next instant was insensible.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  A SCENE IN VIRGINIA—DANIEL MORGAN, THE RIFLEMAN.
                  It was in the early part of July—the month following the occurrence of the
                     events related in the last chapter, in the high regions of Western Virginia, on
                     the shores of the Shenandoah, where it borders on the county of Frederick—that
                     this chapter opens
                  In the porch of a handsome cottage mansion, that stood on elevated ground,
                     where a beautiful lawn stretched down to the banks of a stream, running in
                     front, sat two females The contrast between them was great, for one bore upon
                     her brow the impress of four score years, whilst the other could not have seen
                     more than sixteen summers. The elder lady was richly dressed for the period,
                     for springing from one of the oldest, wealthiest, and most patrician families
                     of Virginia, she bore in her old age much of that haughty pride which, even to
                     this day, is found more conspicuously in that commonwealth than in any other
                     portion of the Union.
                  The young girl who stood at her side was a rare specimen of loveliness as ever
                     eye would wish to fall upon. Just at that age when life, like the rose-bud, she
                     was emerging from girlhood into early woman—the happiest period of existence in
                     the female sex. Her hair, of dark chestnut, in long clustering curls, fell
                     nearly to her waist, unconfined by any comb, but a narrow velvet ribbon, with a
                     gold clasp, bound over her forehead, kept the curls from her face. Her
                     complexion was fair, and a slight blush on each cheek gave just sufficient
                     color to give true delicacy to the skin under which it mantled. The outline of
                     each feature was classically beautiful, and her eyes were of dark hazel,
                     similar to, yet more beautiful than black. Her form, though not fully
                     developed, was round and full, and her figure of good height.
                  The time was within an hour of sunset, and the golden monarch, just tipping the
                     edge of the mountains behind which he was sinking-threw his broad and brilliant
                     rays across the lawn, giving the stream that glided rapidly by the appearance
                     of molten gold.
                  "Frank is out uncommonly late on his hunting expedition this afternoon,
                     grandmother," said the young girl.
                  "It is an exciting amusement, Alice. There are some hunters in our native
                     county as old as I am, who still pursue it with all the ardor that Frank does;
                     and you must recollect, child, that it is but a week since we came from
                     Alexandria to 'the Maples,' and Frank has had no opportunity to enjoy
                     deer-killing with so famous a rifleman as Morgan, who, they tell me, is the
                     best woodsman and marks-man in all Virginia."
                  But, grandmother, Frank should keep his promise," said the beauty, with a
                     slight pet. "What is the use of a brother (and Frank is a good brother, I own)
                     but to wait upon his sister when she wants him, to ride out with her, visit
                     with her, and run through fire and water for her, when she requires it? See
                     there, my dear Carlos waits with impatience," and she pointed towards a
                     beautiful pony fastened to a post not far off, fully caparisoned, with a lady's
                     side-saddle, and who did really seem somewhat excited at his detention, for now
                     and then he gave a look towards the porch, as if recognizing his mistress, by
                     pricing up his ears, and half whining, half neighing.
                  "You had better order Dick to take him again to his pasture. The sun is getting
                     too low, my dear child, for you and Frank to go and return from Winchester
                     to-night."
                  "Well, grandmother, Dick shall take him to the fields again. It will be too
                     late for us to go to Winchester to-night, but I'll read Frank a lecture about
                     it," said she, archly looking up in her grandmother's face, "that will be more
                     terrible to him than all the college lectures he tells us about." And she ran
                     gaily down from the porch to where her pet pony Carlos was confined.
                  It is a beautiful sight to see a fair young girl on horseback, but it is really
                     a more beautiful sight to see that noble animal appreciate the love and care of
                     his mistress In this instance Carlos had witnessed the movement of Alice: with
                     a strong pull, he broke the staple which confined him, and one bound brought
                     him beside her, as she advanced.
                  "Well, Carlos, what do you wish?" said she to the animal, and extended her
                     hand. He pawed with his fore foot, arched his neck, and began to lick the hand
                     of Alice Fairfax, with that gentle neigh which denotes the sincere affection of
                     instinct, so near allied to reason that it is hard to draw the line of
                     distinction. Not content with this, he bent gently down, all but asking her to
                     get upon the saddle.
                  "Well, good Carlos, you shall be gratified with a gallop around the lawn."
                  No sooner did he feel his burden than rising at once he galloped around the
                     lawn, as if proud of the opportunity to gratify the lady. The grandmother
                     looked on her lovely grand-daughter with feelings of the deepest affection, as
                     like Diana she rode away. It was truly a beautiful sight to behold the young
                     girl, her curls floating in the breeze, and to hear her merry shout of
                     unalloyed gratification as Carlos bounded with her by the porch of the cottage,
                     and then galloped on, to return again and go through the same evolutions at the
                     beck of his mistress.
                  Something like half an hour had been spent in this way, when a negro opened the
                     gate that led into the lawn and advanced to the porch, with a small package in
                     his hand. Alice had perceived him, for
                     it was her favorite servant, Dick, a specimen of that class of slaves in the
                     olden time, who would die for that particular portion of the family on whom he
                     had been bestowed, as a kind of protector and guard. He was nearly fifty years
                     old, and his young lady, Alice, over whom he had watched with devotion since
                     she was five years of age, he would have died for at a moment's notice. As she
                     galloped up she flung him the bridle. 
                        Carles
                        Carlos
                      knelt down at once, and she stood again upon the green sward.
                  "Well, Dick, what have you get there?—anything by the post from dear
                     father?"
                  "I reckon so, Miss Ally. Here's the passell; the post-man ride like tunder. He
                     says great news."
                  "Thanks, pappy Dick," said Alice, as she took the package from his hand and
                     went up into the porch beside her grandmother.
                  The father of Frank and Alice Fairfax was one of the wealthiest men in
                     Virginia, and one of her proudest sons. He had held high and honorable rank
                     under the king's government, but when the stamp-act of 1765 was passed by the
                     British parliament, he at once abandoned his high office, and took part with
                     his country. In him it was a principle.—'Born,' as the saying is, 'in the lap
                     of luxury,' surrounded with every gratification that could make man happy, he
                     was willing to risk all; and when the first congress met in Philadelphia, he
                     was elected a member, where he was then acting as a delegate from Virginia.
                  "The Maples," as the cottage was called, was a summer residence of the Fairfax
                     family, in Frederick county, and where Frank, as soon as he returned home from
                     college, looked forward to a joyous visit, for it had been the happy residence
                     of his childhood. When 'leafy June' came in, the family left their house on the
                     banks of the Potomac for "the Maples." Frank had already aided in organizing a
                     battalion of riflemen, of which Daniel Morgan, a famous back woodsman and
                     rifleman of that portion of Virginia, had been chosen senior, and Frank Fairfax
                     junior, captain.
                  Alice looked over the package. It contained a thick letter, in the hand-writing
                     of her father, with one or two newspapers. The latter Alice opened, and seated
                     herself beside her grandmother, who was anxious to know what the news was from
                     the East, then the seat of war; for the skirmishes of Lexington and Concord had
                     been fought, and it was known that the British forces were shut up in Boston.
                     The grandmother took up one paper and Alice another. The latter suddenly let
                     the paper fall which she was reading, with a slight shriek.
                  "Poor Frank!"
                  "Why, my dear Alice, what is the mater?"
                  "Oh, grandmother! There has been a great battle fought near Boston, at Bunker's
                     Hill; and Frank's friend, that he scarcely says ten words without speaking of,
                     and that I so longed to see, has been killed! Oh, poor Frank, how it will
                     affect him!"
                  "It will, indeed, be sad news to Frank; but read it to me, Alice."
                  Alice then read the account of the fight on Bunker's Hill, as narrated in the
                     flying gazettes of the day, with the names of the killed and wounded. Among the
                     list of those mentioned as left dead on the hill, was the name of Ensign Harry
                     Burnham. Fairfax had so often mentioned the name of his friend to his sister,
                     and to all his relatives, with such devoted feeling, that, although unknown to
                     them by sight, it seemed as if he had been a young friend of long standing;
                     and, indeed, Alice, in her girlish exuberancy, had more than once said:
                  "Frank, if you go on in this way, I shall fall in love with Harry Burnham; so
                     look out, when I set eyes upon him, that I do not deprive you of
                     the affections of your friend."
                  Frank had replied: "There is room enough in his heart for both of us, my
                     sister."
                  At this moment, the sound emitted from a conch shell was heard in the distance,
                     which echoed and re-echoed amid the surrounding hills, until it died away in
                     the distance.
                  "Frank is coming, grandmother," said Alice, in a low tone; "that is Morgan's
                     horn."
                  And she leant over the porch, looking down the 
                        lawm
                        lawn
                     , over which the shadows of the tall trees now lengthened like
                     giants.
                  Ten minutes had not elapsed before two persons entered the gate within ten feet
                     of where Alice was leaning, followed by a couple of blacks, each of the latter
                     bearing upon their shoulders a fat buck. The first of the two who entered the
                     gate was Frank Fairfax. The other person I shall describe. He was an athletic,
                     powerful made man, over the ordinary height, and in the prime of life. He was
                     dressed in a brown linen hunting-shirt, fringed with green, and his leggings
                     were of buckskin. His cap was made of the light skin of some denizen of the
                     forest, from which hung, plume-fashion, a buck's tail. In the belt around his
                     waist was stuck a broad hunting-knife, sharp on both edges and pointed. A
                     bullet pouch and powder horn were slung, huntsman-fashion, over his shoulder,
                     and in his powerful right hand he carried that most fatal of all weapons, a
                     long-barrelled rifle.—This man was DANIEL MORGAN, the best rifle-shot in
                     Western Virginia, afterwards the leader of the riflemen into the lines before
                     Boston, and through the wilderness of Maine to the walls of Quebec; the gallant
                     soldier at Saratoga and Monmouth; the defeater of Tarleton, and the hero of the
                     bloody battle of Cowpens, in South Carolina.
                  "Well, Alice, did not Morgan and I promise you a fat buck each this morning.
                     See, we have fulfilled our pledge," said Frank joyfully, and the blacks threw
                     down upon the lawn the two carcasses. She made no reply, but gave him a look,
                     and handed him the paper and letter. Frank's eye glanced at the gazette, and he
                     saw in large letters, "Bloody battle. The tyrants that oppress our land have
                     struck the blow."
                  "Ho! Morgan, listen—great news," and he commenced reading, as the huntsman
                     leant carelessly on his rifle, his ears taking in every word. Fairfax read on
                     until he came to the list of killed, and as he pronounced the name of his
                     friend Burnham, he gazed round for a second, and let the paper fall as if it
                     had been a piece of red hot iron. "Dead! DEAD!" he said in agony,
                     and covered his eyes with his hands as if stupified.
                  Morgan looked at him, and then said, in a deep tone, for he had a voice like
                     the roaring of the cannon, "AVENGE HIM, Frank!"
                  "Thanks, Morgan, thanks — you have brought me to myself—he SHALL be avenged, I
                     swear it. I am cooler now, but he was to me as a brother. I will read my
                     father's letter. Sister Alice, come nearer. Morgan, there is nothing in it but
                     you may hear," and he tore open the seal and read aloud:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 PHILADELPHIA, June 25th, 1775.
                              
                              MY DEAR SON—We have in Congress important news from 
                                    Bosten
                                    Boston
                                 , received by express a few days ago, which I should have
                                 sent before, but the post has been kept back to get further
                                 particulars, for transmission to the Southern colonies.
                              You will see in the 
                                    gazeetes
                                    gazettes
                                  which I send full accounts of the battle on Breed's or
                                 Bunker's Hill, near Boston. Our eastern brethren have fought nobly,
                                 and the blow is now struck which will separate us finally from
                                 Great Britain. We have determined in Congress to enlist an army
                                 under continental pay, and last week Col. Washington was elected
                                 Commander-in-Chief. Indeed he was chosen before the battle was
                                 fought, unanimously. He is by this time in Boston. The battalion of
                                 riflemen, under Morgan from our colony, is taken into service, as
                                 you will perceive by the enclosed resolutions of Congress. Deliver
                                 them to Daniel, with the orders, and tell him I expect great things
                                 of him. I also send his commission and yours, as Captains, signed
                                 by the President of Congress. You will be on the line of march as
                                 soon as possible for Boston. Take all the ready money I may have in
                                 Winchester to fit out the companies—it will be more than
                                 sufficient, and I will look to Congress for its return.
                              If Morgan, for the honor of Old Virginia, does not take into
                                 Massachusetts as quick as possible, the finest body of men that
                                 ever killed a buck at a hundred and fifty yards, I shall give him
                                 up. Tell Dan this from me, and mind that you are with
                                 him,
                              My sincerest love to my dear mother, and my romping, cheerful
                                 Alice. Show her this, and let her know how her father misses her
                                 rosy kiss and joyous greeting. Alas! sterner duties must keep me, I
                                 fear, a long time from home.
                              
                                 Your affectionate father,
                                 RICHARD FAIRFAX.
                              
                           
                           
                              P.S. Mr. Hancock has just shown me a letter from the Camp at
                                 Cambridge, by which it would appear that some of our officers
                                 reported to be dead, are only wounded and prisoners in Boston. He
                                 thinks your friend and classmate, Burnham, is among them. I am glad
                                 to give you this hope.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "Thank God! there is hope then," exclaimed Fairfax.
                  "Your father relies so fully upon Dan Morgan, does he?" exclaimed the huntsman;
                     "by G—d, he'll not be mistaken this time. Frank, the riflemen will
                     be on this lawn ready to march at noon to-morrow for Boston, as sure as my name
                        is Dan. You'll hear the conch shells all night" And without
                     waiting for an answer, Morgan strode away.
                  What passed between Fairfax, his sister, and grandmother that night, it is
                     needless to relate. Three weeks from the next morning, Captains
                     Morgan and Fairfax, with the battalion of Virginia riflemen, marched into the
                     lines before Boston, in their brown linen hunting shirts, after a foot journey
                     of seven hundred miles! This is a matter of history. There was
                        something of patriotism in those days.
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  THE PRISONER.
                  The dews of a summer's night were falling upon Bunker's Hill; the groans of the
                     wounded and the dying echoed sadly over the field, for hundreds lay where they
                     had fallen in the shock of battle, unable to move, from the severity of their
                     wounds.
                  A portion of the wounded officers had been taken to Boston, but others were too
                     badly hurt to be removed over the water, and all the surgeons that could be
                     spared from Boston had been sent to the hill.
                  Groups of soldiers, with camp lanterns, were scattered here and there over the
                     hill, picking out the wounded from the dead, and taking them to the hospitals.
                     Across Charlestown Neck, the Fifty-second regiment had taken up a position for
                     the night, after throwing up a breastwork for protection against the "rebels,"
                     fearing that they might make an attack. Never before, in any battle, since the
                     invention of fire-arms, had the English suffered so severe a loss, in
                     proportion to their numbers. Out of three thousand men, more than one-third
                     were put hors du combat, and seventy officers
                     were weltering in their gore.
                  A detachment of men, headed by a sergeant, came to the spot where Burnham was
                     lying, stiffened in blood. He had been insensible since the close of the fight,
                     and was lying upon his back, his features pale and ghastly by the light of the
                     lamp, which the sergeant held to his face.
                  "He is one of the rebel officers, and a decent one, too," said the sergeant,
                     "for he's got on a uniform: let me see if he's alive."
                  And he placed his hand upon Burnham's heart.
                  "Does it beat, sergeant?" said one of the soldiers, who had inserted his hand
                     into the watch-fob of the insensible officer, and was proceeding to take out
                     its contents.
                  "Yes, Bradford, it beats. Now tell me how that watch ticks."
                  The sergeant had witnessed the movements of his companion.
                  "It ticks elegantly, sergeant," was the reply.
                  "Then restore it to the pocket from whence you took it," said a British officer
                     who had approached unseen "Sergeant, see that this officer is taken at once to the hospital. He is
                     a brave foe! I saw him shot down."
                  Lifting Burnham in their arms, two soldiers carried him, as directed, to a
                     large tent, which had been pitched on the brow of the hill, where there was a
                     cool breeze that swept through the canvass. This was the hospital for the
                     officers not yet carried to Boston.
                  Upon matresses and blankets laid on the ground, reposed some fifteen or twenty
                     officers, more or less wounded. An occasional groan showed the suffering of
                     some particular individual, whose pain was greater than he could bear, but in
                     most instances the officers bore their sufferings with fortitude.
                  When Burnham was brought in, there appeared no place for his repose. The
                     officer who had superintended his removal from the field was close behind, and
                     looking round upon his wounded comrades, said, with deep emotion—
                  "A sad day for us has been this seventeenth of June. Doctor, I've brought you
                     another sufferer; but he belongs on the other side."
                  The surgeon, with one or two assistants, was just engaged in the agreeable
                     occupation of amputating an officer's arm which had been dreadfully shattered
                     by musket balls in two places above the elbow.
                  "Put him down anywhere, Major Small, where you can find room. I hope it's not
                     an amputating case—if it is, there are two ahead of him already."
                  Major Small looked round for a vacancy whereon to place Burnham, when a wounded
                     officer raised his head, and gazing at the young Continental, exclaimed—
                  "Major, let one of your men move me to one side of the matress, and I will
                     freely give up the other to that young officer. He is the brave fellow who got
                     over the entrenchment and bore me to a place of safety inside. I should have
                     been killed on the field but for him. He is a brave youth, and it shall never
                     be said that Dick Marsden did not give half his bed to a noble enemy in
                     suffering."
                  "Thanks, Marsden," said the Major, "thanks. I saw him perform a noble action,
                     in saving the flag which he carried, rebel as he is. A tall comrade of his
                     carried it off just as he fell. There, men, place him beside the Captain," and,
                     in obedience to his directions, they laid Burnham down by the side of Marsden.
                     He gave no indication of life, save a half-smothered groan, when they placed
                     him on the matress.
                  In about an hour's time the surgeon examined his wound, and pronounced it to be
                     more troublesome than dangerous. Probing it with his finger, he found the ball
                     had fortunately passed above the hip without touching the vitals, and that the
                     insensibility of Burnham proceeded from loss of blood rather than the severity
                     of the wound, and made such applications that the young officer by the next
                     morning was able to comprehend his situation, and that he was a prisoner. In
                     the course of the day he was taken to Boston with the British officers.
                  We must now take the reader to the interior of a mansion in Boston some two
                     weeks after Burnham had been removed to that city. It was a fine old room, hung
                     round with pictures—the furniture was old-fashioned, but of the richest
                     kind—and the mansion evidently belonged to some person of wealth and
                     consequence. In this room were seated three persons: the elder was a
                     fine-looking man of sixty, his hair white as silver, and powdered in the
                     fashion of the day; his dress was half clerical, and he held in one hand an
                     open book as if he had been reading, or was about to read.
                  Beside him was a blue-eyed girl of seventeen, whose countenance beamed with
                     beauty and intelligence. It is rare to see these combined, but in the face of
                     Mary Manners, intellect, as well as a high order of beauty, were eminently
                     developed. Her forehead was high and broad, her hair of dark brown, and her
                     features majestic without being bold. It was evident from the similarity of
                     looks that the two were father and daughter.
                  The third person was a young man, dressed in rich military costume, and
                     appeared quite devoted to the young lady. He bore in one hand a flute, with
                     heavy silver keys.
                  "Nephew, I think this new work of Doctor Johnson's is not equal to some of his
                     former ones. When a man of his talent gets on the government pension list, he
                     is apt to become lazy and careless in his literary matters."
                  "Perhaps so, uncle, but he is doing the government service at the present
                     crisis. His pamphlets on the affairs of this rebellion are doing much
                     good."
                  "I can hardly say that, Nephew. He is too sturdy and fierce in his opinions.
                     Although I am staunch for country and king, I must say that there are some
                     grievances on the part of the suffering colonies, that require attention on the
                     part of the government."
                  "Certainly, cousin," said Mary Manners, "there are grievances, serious and
                     sore, that require relieving; you know I am half rebel, for I was born in this
                     country, and dearly do I love it."
                  "Ah, coz., you female rebels are dangerous to argue with. I long ago made up my
                     mind never to get into an argument with a lady, except on the question of love.
                     On that point I will talk for ever."
                  "Then, for heaven's sake, Major, do not bore me with the subject,"
                     replied Miss Manners; "if there is anything I detest, it is conversing upon
                     that matter. The fire may be in me, but I as yet have no Prometheus to light
                     it."
                  Dr. Manners laughed heartily for a moment, and then, turning gravely to his
                     daughter, said: "Your mother told me so twenty times, and yet married me after
                     all, my dear. Love is a curious thing; it has a strange way of growing upon
                     one. I have often been introduced to people, absolutely forbidding in aspect,
                     who, on after acquaintance, when I have been able to appreciate their minds,
                     really seemed to me beautiful in person. My dear, you will learn the truth of
                     this when you get older."
                  "Ah! papa," said his daughter, as she playfully touched his face with her fan,
                     "you are an old philosopher, and Major Adair is not. Perhaps I will be of your
                     opinion at the proper time, but just now I really think it impossible sible.
                     But let us talk no more on this subject, but upon that which is of interest to
                     all—the situation of my country and the rebels. The rogues!—here
                     we are, shut up in Boston, without the privilege ef a meal of fresh vegetables,
                     by their insolence. Is it not too bad, Major?" The latter part of her remarks
                     was said in rather an ironical tone.
                  "Why, yes, dear cousin, it is rather bad that we have neither salad, fruit, or
                     green peas from the country; but wait, my young lady, till our reinforcements
                     arrive, and the drubbing we shall give the Yankees will do your heart
                     good."
                  The reverend doctor, who was busily reading the now work of that "literary
                     bear," Dr. Johnson, gave a slight "hem" at this speech of his nephew—Major
                     Adair, of the Guard.
                  Miss Manners bit her lip until the blood dyed her beautiful mouth at this
                     gasconade of the Major's, for it touched her to the quick. "Really, Major, you
                     surprise me. What was the name of that little skirmish which
                     occurred a week or two ago near Charlestown? Some hill, I think, they call
                     it?"
                  "Bunker's Hill, Bunker's Hill, dear coz. I remember it well: I came near being
                     wounded."
                  "Yes, very near, Major. Is that the species of drubbing you intend
                     to give the Yankees?"
                  The Major made no reply. Doctor Manners held the book up to his face to prevent
                     the smile from being seen which rose upon his countenance. The Major looked a
                     little bewildered, but this passed away in an instant, for he placed the flute
                     to his lips and began to play the air of "Rule Britannia." In a moment after, a
                     military gentleman entered the room, and the music ceased.
                  "Ah! Major Small," said the Dr., "I am glad to see you. It is a week since we
                     had the honor of a visit."
                  "Doctor Manners, your servant—my young lady, your most devoted—Major Adair, I
                     see you know where to pick out your quarters."
                  "Oh, my dear Major Small, how glad I am to see you. Would you believe that my
                     cousin, Rob Adair, talks of giving my countrymen such a terrible drubbing when
                     the reinforcement arrives. It will be delightful, will it not, Major?"
                  Major Small comprehended at a glance the state of things, and at once
                     spoke:
                  "My dear young lady, would to God your countrymen were not so brave, for
                        then I believe there would be some chance of our success. To
                     tell the truth, I doubt whether his Majesty's troops will ever visit the
                     country in the vicinity of Boston again with arms in their hands. But enough of
                     this; I should have been here before, Dr. Manners, had it not been for a
                     wounded rebel protege officer at my quarters,
                     in whose safety I have taken a deep interest."
                  "Ah! who is he?" said the rev. Dr.
                  "A youth of fine education, of gentlemanly manners, and of prepossessing
                     appearance—an Ensign from Connecticut, named Burnham."
                  "Burnham?" eagerly inquired the Dr.
                  "Harry Burnham?" exclaimed Mary Manners, her large blue eyes opening wide as
                     she spoke.
                  "Yes, Harry Burnham—you know him, then?"
                  "Good God! I love him as if he were my own son. Young Harry Burnham wounded and
                     in Boston, and neither my daughter or myself aware ef it! Too bad, too bad!"
                     hastily added the Dr.
                  In an instant, the gentle Mary had rushed to the door and disappeared, and her
                     voice was heard calling to her servant to bring at once her bonnet and shawl.
                     The Dr. himself bustled about, seized his hat and cane, and stood with both in
                     his hand, awaiting for the return of Mary. The younger Major looked on with an
                     unquiet eye, whilst the elder Major patiently awaited the explanation which he
                     knew would come.
                  Mary soon returned, bonneted and shawled, and taking the arm of Major Small,
                     said:—"Come, Major, lead us at once to your quarters. I suppose cousin Adair
                     will accompany us. Poor dear Harry! wounded, and two weeks in Boston, without
                     father or myself knowing it."
                  On the way, Miss Manners explained to her companion the interest she felt in
                     Burnham. They had been brought up together from childhood, studied from the
                     same books, and were separated only when Burnham went to College. They had
                     corresponded together regularly, and each felt the deepest affection for the
                     other. It made her heart ache, she said, to think what he had suffered from his
                     wound, when her little soothings might have relieved him greatly.
                  Major Small, like an honorable, high-minded man, felt and fully appreciated the
                     sentiments of the noble-hearted girl. A few moments' walk brought them to the
                     quarters of the Major.
                  Perhaps it may be as well to introduce the reader to the apartment occupied by
                     Burnham before we usher in the visiters. It was a pleasant little room, looking
                     out upon the water, and although the air was sultry, a cool breeze played
                     through the open windows.
                  In a cushioned arm-chair, near the window, sat Burnham. He had been reading,
                     for on a little stand close by him, amid vials and drinks for the sick, lay a
                     book and a newspaper. He was yet weak, and could not stand without support; but
                     he was rapidly recovering, although his countenance bore the marks of the
                     severity of his sufferings. "Watson," he said to the Major's body-servant, who
                     was in the room, and had faithfully attended him, "I fear I shall never be able
                     to repay your kindness."
                  "Oh, your honor, say nothing about that; I'm an old campaigner, and know my
                     duty. It was the fortune of war, sir, and perhaps old Bill Watson may one day
                     be a prisoner on your side, when we can square the debt."
                  "If that day should ever come, and I am within finding distance, remember and
                     make the application. But where is the Major? I have not seen him to-day."
                  
                  "He looked in a while ago, but would not disturb your honor while asleep."
                  Steps were now heard on the stairs, and voices which seemed familiar to
                     Burnham. He turned his eager gaze towards the door, and attempted to rise as
                     two well-known forms greeted his sight. He tottered as he stood upright, and
                     would have fallen but for the support of, on one side, his old friend and
                     preceptor, Dr. Manners, whilst clasping his hand on the other, and looking up
                     enquiringly in his pale features, he beheld the fair face of Mary Manners.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  KI'S PROMOTION.—SUPPER WITH GENERAL LEE.
                  On the third day of July, 1775, George Washington, of Virginia,
                     Commander-in-Chief of the armies of the confederated colonies, reached the
                     lines before Boston, and took command, establishing his head-quarters at
                     Cambridge.
                  The forces of the Americans before and around Boston were numerous, but
                     undisciplined. At Roxbury, Gen. Thomas was in command with his brigade. The New
                     Hampshire and Rhode Island troops were on Winter Hill. There were not
                     sufficient tents for the army in the field, and, consequently, many of them
                     occupied the houses of the farmers in the vicinity, and the college buildings
                     at Cambridge.
                  On the morning of the sixth of July, the following order appeared upon the
                     Orderly books of the Connecticut brigade:
                  HEAD-QUARTERS OF THE BRIGADE,
                  Prospect Hill, July 6th, 1775.
                  The General has great pleasure in informing the brigade that the
                     Commander-in-Chief expresses, his approbation of the conduct of such portion of
                     the troops as were engaged in the action of Breed's Hill. It will always be his
                     aim and exertion to reward merit, and give the proper credit due to bravery. We
                     are engaged in a common cause—the preservation of our rights and liberties, and
                     the energies of every American, moral and physical, must be exerted to the
                     utmost in the great cause.
                  Ensign Harry Burnham, wounded and a prisoner in Boston, is hereby promoted to
                     the Captaincy of the flank company of the third regiment, vice Spencer, killed.
                     Sergeant Hezekiah Lane to be Ensign in the same company, vice Burnham,
                     promoted. The Ensign is ordered to report himself, with a command of thirty
                     men, to Adjutant General Gates, as a guard to the Commander-in-Chief. Being on
                     special duty, he will make his daily reports direct to the Brigadier
                        General.*
                      The thirty men are to be chosen for their fine appearance, and to be
                      uniformed and accoutred alike.
                  
                     
                     *Putnam had been elected one of the Major Generals on the Continental line
                        by Congress on the 29th of June, but his commission had not yet been
                        received.
                  
                  "Here is an honor," thought Ki, as he stretched his tall figure to its utmost
                     height, and rubbed his pipe-clayed body-belt with great animation. "However, I
                        guess I must do it, since such are the orders. Officer of the
                     guard to the Commander-in-Chief—here's a promotion! Oh! if Harry was here I
                     should have no trouble about it, but duty is duty, and now for the
                     selection."
                  Ki found no difficulty in picking out from the Oakdale Volunteers the requisite
                     men. The battalion had been incorporated with the third regiment on continental
                     pay, and formed the flank or grenadier company. One thing puzzled Ki
                     exceedingly. He needed an epaulette and a sword, neither of which he
                     possessed—and, to tell the truth, his funds were rather low for purchasing
                     these emblems of his rank, even if they were to be found in camp. He proceeded
                     to form the detachment under his special command, aided by a couple of
                     sergeants, preparatory to reporting himself for duty to the Adjutant
                     General.
                  While thus engaged, he saw Putnam approaching on foot, accompanied by a general
                     officer, who, though not in uniform, wore in his chapeau a cockade, the colors
                     of which denoted his rank.*
                      As they neared the line of the company, the arms were brought to a
                     present, and the evolutions of the men were such that the two Generals, after
                     proceeding a little, halted and entered into conversation, which, it was easy
                     to perceive, related to Ki and his men. After a brief drill, the Ensign
                     dismissed his men for an hour, to pack their knapsacks and kits prior to
                     marching.
                  
                     
                     *At the first formation of the army, before a uniform had been adopted,
                        rank was denoted by the colors of the cockade.
                  
                  What was Ki to do for an epaulette and sword? He had been to all his friends in
                     camp, but could not borrow them, even for a day, to say nothing of buying the
                     articles, for not an extra sword or epaulette was to be found in camp.
                  "Well, I must do the best I can," said he, solus. "I don't know that it will
                     make much difference although I am an officer of the Commander-in-Chief's
                     Guard."
                  It was getting near the hour for him to be at the head of his party to proceed
                     to Cambridge, when he entered his quarters. Great was his joy when he beheld
                     Major Knowlton, who had been some days absent.
                  "I congratulate you, Ensign, on your promotion. I also wish you joy in the
                     appointment as officer of the Commander-in-Chief's Guard. That is
                     an honor indeed."
                  "Yes, Major, I receive it as such. But I am glad to see you for more reasons
                     than one Promoted to a commission, and on special duty, I possess neither sword
                     or epaulette to appear according to my rank."
                  "Why, my dear fellow, what do you call those elegant accoutrements yonder? I
                     have just been examining them, and never saw anything of the kind more
                     superior."
                  Ki cast his eyes upon the table, where lay an elegant sword, epaulette and
                     sash. The very things he wanted. The sword was a heavy cut and thrust, the
                     scabbard of polished leather, with gold bands and hilt. The epaulette was of
                     gold bullion, curiously worked, and the sash of fine crimson silk, beautifully
                     knit. There was also a letter upon the table, directed to Ensign Lane, which he
                     opened with curious anxiety, and read aloud the following:—
                  "Major General Lee's compliments to Ensign Lane, and begs his acceptance of a
                     sword, epaulette and sash, to conform to his new rank.
                  "The sword was worn by the giver in the campaigns in Portugal in 1762, and is
                     the one with which he cut down the commander of the Spanish forces at Villa
                     Velha, in the surprise of that camp, on the night of the 8th of October. in
                     that year.
                  "He could entrust it to no braver hands than to the soldier who so gallantly
                     bore off the standard of his company in the face of the enemy, when its Ensign
                     and protector had fallen on the field. Camp at Cambridge, July 6th, 1775."
                  "I never saw General Lee to my knowledge," said Ki to the Major, who had
                     listened attentively to every word.
                  "Nor I," was the reply; "but then I have been away from camp, and only heard
                     this morning of his appointment as Major General by Congress. At any rate, my
                     gallant young giant, he is a brave and well known officer, who has thrown up
                     his rank and half pay in the British service to make common cause with us. You
                     are in luck, Sergeant, or rather, I should say, Ensign—I almost envy your
                     situation. Come let me play the superior, buckle on your sword, and declare you
                     knight."
                  Without waiting for any reply, Knowlton buckled the sword belt over the
                     Ensign's shoulder, as was the fashion of the day, so that the sword hung in the
                     rear of the thigh, tied the sash in a soldier's knot around the wrist, and
                     fastened on his epaulette.
                  "There, Ensign, you are now prepared for duty, and boast a better sword than
                     any officer that I know of in the army. Go, my fine fellow. There is honor
                     before you, although I much wish your friend Burnham was out of that city
                     opposite, and free of his wound."
                  "He shall be out of Boston, if I have any power or permission to get him away.
                     But, Major, I hear the drum—now for my special duties upon the
                     Commander-in-Chief."
                  "I shall see you every day," was the reply of Knowlton, "for my duties will
                     call me to head-quarters."
                  In a few moments the guard, with drum and fife, were on their march to
                     head-quarters, which they reached about three o'clock in the afternoon, were
                     the Ensign went to report himself to Adjutant General Gates.
                  Two officers were standing near a dwelling which was pointed out to the Ensign
                     as the quarters of the Adjutant General. One of them Ki recollected as the
                     officer he had seen in the morning with Putnam. He was tall and slender, with
                     bold features, his nose large and remarkably prominent. His eyes were of
                     piercing grey, and they moved with wonderful rapidity when scanning any one,
                     which their owner did from head to foot. His age was about forty.
                  The other officer was of about the same age, but much different in appearance.
                     He was more corpulent and neater dressed, with a pleasant and contented smile
                     that played round his rather handsome features. He was dressed in uniform, his
                     coat faced with scarlet, for the buff was not adopted until a short time
                     after.
                  The first mentioned of the two officers had four or five dogs of different
                     breeds and sizes, that played and leaped about him with the most provoking
                     familiarity, nor did they in the least seem to incommode their master, but
                     rather to please him than otherwise. Now and then he would toss up a little
                     riding whip which he held in his hand, and there would be a general scramble
                     among the dogs to obtain it. As the Ensign advanced towards the officer, two or
                     three of the dogs left their pursuit after the whip, and came running and
                     barking before him.
                  "Here, Pylades, Damon, June, and the rest of my four-footed aid-de-camps,*
                      back with ye—Sampson, yonder, would crush your skulls like so many egg
                     shells. Welcome, my gallant Ensign; I know the officer you are in search of.
                     General Gates, this is Ensign Lane—our Goliath of Gath, bound to meet with no
                     little David, I trust, in this conflict. A worthy looking soldier to hold
                     command of Washington's guard. Old Frederick of Prussia would have given in his
                     day a thousand pounds for such a specimen of flesh, and blood. Six foot four in
                     his stocking feet! fortiter et recte—but I
                     forgot; you don't understand latin, and I shall expect you, my tall friend,
                     with the permission of the Adjutant General, here, to sup with me at my humble
                     quarters at nine o'clock precisely. By the bye, you don't know me—I am General
                     Lee."
                  
                     
                     *General Lee was remarkably eccentric, and was always surrounded by
                        numbers of dogs. They were called in the army jocularly, "Lee's
                        aid-decamps."
                  
                  It was in this manner Lee conversed in his eccentric way, when the fit was on
                     him.
                  Ki related verbally his instructions from Gen. Putnam, saying that he was now
                     prepared to receive his orders.
                  "General Washington was informed of your conduct on Bunker's Hill, Ensign; at
                     his own request you have been detailed with your men to act as his guard until
                     further orders. The Quarter Master has received commands to prepare a house
                     near Head Quarters for your reception and occupation with your company. Until
                     to-morrow, a wing of the college is at your disposal where you will march your
                     command, and need not report for duty until eight o'clock to-morrow morning. In
                     the meantime accept of General Lee's invitation to sup with him this
                     evening."
                  The Ensign bowed—there was a politeness about him, even if his education had
                     been somewhat neglected; and turning to the eccentric Lee, he thus expressed
                     himself,—
                  "General Lee, the presents which I got this morning from you, shan't be forgot,
                        never I dont pretend to return
                     thanks in the same style some can, but I think you'll find Ki Lane honest in
                     all he does and says, and this sword will never be surrendered as long as
                     there's a grain of life in me to hold it. I'll take supper to-night along with
                     you, General, since you ask it, though I'd like to know where to find your
                     quarters."
                  "You look honest, speak honest, and I know you have acted honest,
                     Ensign. I always wish my acquaintances to be men, I can pick up
                     others at any time, but men are not to be had at a mere beck or nod of Tom or
                     Dick. You see that little white cottage yonder, beneath the shade of two or
                     three noble elms? There are my quarters—I shall expect you at nine precisely.
                     Come, Gates. Here, Damon, Juno, and the rest of you, this way. At nine exactly,
                     Ensign Lane," and with the usual bows, the two General passed on.
                  Ki marched his company to the portion of the college pointed out as the
                     quarters for his command until the next day, where he dismissed them with the
                     promise to be in quarters by tattoo He filled up the time, until it wanted a
                     quarter of nine, by writing to his old protector, Capt. Burnham, (the father of
                     Harry,) giving him full particulars of events as they had occurred up to that
                     time.
                  Nine o'clock came, and just as the college clock struck the last note, Ki was
                     entering the door of Lee's quarters. The sentry presented arms on seeing his
                     rank, a black servant ushered him into the dining-room, where he found a table
                     already spread with some half dozen plates. The company present was Lee, Gates,
                     and two other officers. The Ensign was introduced to the two officers, who were
                     the aids of the General.
                  "Now, Pomp, bring on the soup as quick as possible, the company are all
                     present."
                  In a few moments three negro servants dressed in livery entered the room—one
                     bearing a tureen, the others a dish each. Lee took his seat at the head of the
                     table, and the tureen was placed before him, the other dishes were ranged upon
                     the table.
                  Now, gentlemen, sit down; here, Lane take your position on my right flank, as a
                     grenadier should do, and I will remove the cover from this tureen. Ah! it
                     smells sweetly. It is frog soup, gentleman—frog soup cooked a la Polonaise, a rare receipt which only I
                     possess."
                  Now my readers can well imagine what feeling the word "frog
                     soup," would have upon the stomach of a New Englander who never heard of eating
                     this amphibious animal, and who would as soon think of devouring a water
                        snake. Precisely this feeling rose upon the hungry
                     stomach of Ki, and he turned away to conceal his dislike.
                  "Oh! ho, my jolly Yankee, you cannot appreciate this dainty,
                     I perceive  I am  codfish yonder, that was brought
                     expressly from the banks for you—or perhaps a plate of the baked beans, with a
                     slice of pork, would suit you better—if not, see what a fine piece of mottled
                     roast beef, Alcibiades the Just, the worthiest colored Greek of all, has bought
                     in on the instant. As for the frog soup, Gates and myself will do it full
                     justice. Now fall to, fall to, my merry men, all."
                  The supper, if such it might be called, met with ample justice from the guests.
                     Some most excellent Maderia was brought in, which received due attention, and
                     the story and jest went round with great animation. Some two hours had passed
                     away, the cloth had long since been removed, for Lee was particular in the
                        muntia of his supper parties, when one of
                     his black servants that he had brought with him from Virginia, entered and
                     announced—
                  "His Excellency's aid-de-camp."
                  "Show him in—it can't be Reed, surely!" said Lee.
                  The aid-de-camp entered. It was Major Trumbull,*
                      who had been that day appointed one of the aid-de-camps of
                      Washington.
                  
                     
                     *The late Col. John Trumbull, artist, son of Governor Trumbull.
                  
                  "Ah! Trumbull, welcome; do you come to take a glass with us?"
                  "No, General. His Excellency wishes to see on the instant Ensign Lane, the
                     officer of his guard. He has received some special news that requires immediate
                     attention."
                  "There, Ensign, be off with you—it must, indeed, be special business when
                     Washington wishes to see you at this hour. A glass of wine, Trumbull, and take
                     away your prisoner."
                  In two minutes after, Major Trumbull and the Ensign were on their way amid the
                     darkness of the night to Head Quarters.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  KI'S INTERVIEW WITH "THE FATHER OF HIS COUNTRY" — HIS
                     INSTRUCTIONS—A DREAM.
                  "The Commander-in-Chief must attend to duties late, I calkilate, Major
                     Trumbull," said Ki to his companion, when they had been a few moments on their
                     route.
                  "Very punctual, very exact, and kind withal, Ensign. I have been attached to
                     his military family but a few hours, I may say; yet I have seen enough of the
                     General to convince me that he is the MAN destined to achieve the great work
                     for which we are fighting."
                  "Amen!" replied Ki.
                  "Who comes there?" was the quick challenge of a sentry, as they neared the
                     quarters of the Commander-in Chief.
                  "An officer of the staff," was the reply of Trumbull, through the thick
                     darkness of the night.
                  "Forward, officer of the staff, and give the countersign," said the sentry, as
                     he brought his musket to a port.
                  Trumbull advanced and whispered in the ear of the sentry, who had recognised
                     his voice, the 
                        conntersign
                        countersign
                     .
                  "Pass, officer of the staff and friend," he said, in a loud voice, and Ki found
                     himself with the Major inside the passage-way to the large mansion that loomed
                     through the mist and gloominess of the night.
                  A half dozen men, accoutred as cavalry, whose horses were tied to the fence
                     that surrounded the house, were walking backwards and forwards with eager
                     haste, at if awaiting orders, the lights through one or two of the windows
                     flashing upon their anxious faces when they turned from time to time towards
                     the dwelling, as doors opened or shut.
                  Trumbull bowed to their leader as he passed with Ki, and both entered the main
                     door of the mansion.
                  "Wait till you are addressed," whispered the Aid-de-Camp to Ki, "by his
                     excellency. He will see' YOU when we enter his cabinet, but if engaged upon
                     dispatches, he may not say a word to you for an hour."
                  "I shall do right," answered Ki to the Major.
                  Trumbull passed on a few steps after this conversation, knocked at a small door
                     which led from the entry-way, and a reply was heard on the instant—
                  "Enter."
                  The Major and the Ensign passed into the room. It was not a large apartment, by
                     any means. One window only opened to the road or street, and a curtain was
                     drawn over the glass to exclude observation from the outside. In the centre of
                     the room was a table, on which rested a writing desk—the table itself was
                     covered with open maps, letters, and implements of writing. On each wing of the
                     table were sheets of paper, half written over, with pens lying beside them.
                  Beside the desk, in the centre of the table, was seated a personage with pen in
                     hand, his eyes resting on the opening door, through which Major Trumbull and
                     Ensign Lane passed, at the sound of the word "enter." He bowed to Trumbull as
                     he came in, and his eye glanced calmly and dignified over the person of Ki.
                  The Major beckoned to the Ensign to be seated, and passed immediately to the
                     personage seated at the desk. The later rose at once and walked with the Major
                     across the little room towards the obscure window. Ki had now a full
                     opportunity to examine the form and mein of the man who was then just entering
                     that career, the close of which left him in perfect greatness, without a
                     parallel in ancient or modern times.
                  His dress was simple, yet becoming. A coat of military cut, but without any
                     emblems of rank, served to show a breast and shoulders cast in nature's finest
                     mould. Vest and breeches of buff, with the high military boots of the day,
                     clothed the lower portions of his figure. Taller than ordinary men, and
                     muscular, without being corpulent, a glance served to convince Ki that he had
                     never seen a finer specimen of the soldier and the gentleman. But his face and
                     its expression was superior to the elegance of his form. The forehead equally
                     broad and high, without being too much so, was covered with a beautiful head of
                     hair, powdered in the fashion of the period. His eyes were of light blue,
                     rather inclining to gray, which, when resting upon the face of the person
                     conversing with him, seemed to read the sincerity of every word that was
                     said.
                  His nose heavily moulded, yet of classic outline, with a broad bridge, denoting
                     (if physiognomy is worth anything by comparison) excitability and deep passion,
                     rested over thin, but handsomely-shaped lips, the compression of which, and the
                     expression of the mouth, indicated iron firmness. Face, form and manner were
                     singularly dignified and commanding. Never, perhaps, did nature, in her
                     choicest moods, ever blend body and 
                        minp
                        mind
                      more exactly equal, than in the person of GEORGE WASHINGTON. He was
                     then in the forty-fourth year of his age, that period of human existence when
                     the soul and the frame for the first time seem to agree, the romantic and wild
                     foolishness of youth is gone—the cautious fretfulness of old age is yet to
                     come.
                  The conversation with Major Trumbull was not of long duration. Washington bade
                     him good night, with the simple remark, "You have been busily engaged during
                     the day, and up to this hour: it is time you took repose."
                  The Major cast a meaning glance at Ki, and retired.
                  "Ensign Lane, be seated for a few moments; I have a little writing yet to
                     finish, after which I shall be ready to communicate my wishes to you."
                  At these words of Washington, Ki took his seat.
                  Some ten minutes elapsed before the General concluded his business, when he
                     politely requested Ki to take a seat beside him.
                  "Will you, to serve your country, go into Boston in disguise?"
                  "Willingly, sir."
                  "If you are recognized, you will be hanged as a spy," said Washington, looking
                     the Ensign steadily in the face.
                  "Yes, sir, I know as much; but I am ready to run a risk like that for my
                     country. A man has no business to enlist as a soldier, unless he is willing to
                     die in the cause."
                  "True sentiments, and nobly uttered! I have been but a few days in camp, and
                     your name has been mentioned to me with commendation, for your conduct on
                     Bunker's Hill. I have made inquiries respecting you, and find that all tongues
                     speak of you as a brave and honest man. I have selected you to
                     command my guard, but under that title will fall many dangerous enterprises. Do
                     you accept the command?"
                  "With thanks, sir."
                  "Let me tell you more, and you may yes decline with honor. I shall often send
                     you on dangerous service, in which, if you fall, there will be no honor or fame
                     to rest upon your memory, because no one but myself will be aware of the duty
                     on which you go: it may be of a kind that I cannot acknowledge. Do you still
                     consent?"
                  "I do, sir."
                  "One more reason for your refusal. The office of a spy is always
                     dangerous—never strictly honorable, for the result is a scaffold; and a spy perishes without record; parent, wife,
                     or brother never learn his fate. Do you still accept?"
                  "My life, your excellency," said Ki, rising with emotion, "is but a mere drop
                     in the ocean that forms a nation's existence. What am I that I should refuse to
                     perish for the whole? General, I have decided—my country is the only relative I
                     now know or acknowledge!"
                  "It is well," replied Washington. He went to his desk, from whence he took out
                     a small package, and returning, said to Ki: "This letter I wish delivered into
                     the hands of a certain person in Boston. Disguise yourself in such manner as
                     you please, but reach the old Charlestown ferry by daylight. I know your
                     discretion and your honor in this matter. You will see a female dressed in the
                     garb of a market-woman; if you hear her say aloud, not addressed to you
                     particularly, but to 
                        anone
                        anyone
                      that may be near, 'Who has rebel goods to sell?' follow her; you will
                     understand the rest when you get to her house. If you are taken with the
                     package, it contains nothing that compromises the army or
                        myself—you only are compromised."
                  "Sir your discretion will not be wronged; I shall be on Boston shore before
                     sunrise," replied Ki. "For myself I have no fear,"
                  Washington rang a small bell, and immediately afterwards an elderly man
                     appeared.
                  "Evans, this officer may want to consult you upon certain matters. You
                     understand what I mean. Comply with all his requests, at once. Ensign,
                     farewell! I shall expect to see you in three days from this time. If I do not,
                     remember the hazard I spoke of. I shall fear its truth."
                  With a bow, as he took up a lamp, the Commander-in-chief left the
                     apartment.
                  "Now, Evans," said Ki to the attendant, "I've but a little time to fix things.
                     Do you know whether in the kitchen of the General's cook there may be a few
                     fowls, a young pig or anything of the kind, ready for cooking?"
                  "Well, sir, we can see. If there should be anything of the sort, do you intend
                     to turn cook, and take the place of the negro brought from Virginia?"
                  "No, I can't say that I want to take the nigger cook's place, but possibly I
                     might before two days are over. But never mind, just lead me to the kitchen, if
                     you please. I've a range all over the premises if I choose, according to the
                     Commander-in-Chief's orders, so lead on."
                  Following Evans, the household man of Washington, for the time being, the
                     Ensign soon found himself in the kitchen of the mansion known as head-quarters.
                     Opening a door that led into an outer cellar, Ki saw the better half of a
                     bullock, a well-dressed haunch of mutton, two or three sucking pigs, and sundry
                     poultry, all ready for cooking, suspended against the ceiling. A large basket
                     in one corner, quite empty, was immediately seized upon by the Ensign, who at
                     once commenced filling the basket with poultry and pigs.
                  "Why," said the astonished Evans, "you don't intend to deprive the General and
                     staff of their meals to-morrow, do you?"
                  "I'm afraid so, in a measure," answered Ki, coolly, as he deliberately filled
                     the basket. "Now, I've still further business on hand. I want one of the
                     General's servants to go over to the college, and ask one of the new guard to
                     come here. I have business for him, for you see, friend Evans, I'm on special
                     duty."
                  With the latter remark, he threw a plump, fat pullet into the basket.
                  "Yes, Mr. Officer, very special indeed. Why, you are picking out the very
                     finest poultry in the cellar."
                  "Just what I intended. Why, this is for the poor Britishers on the other side
                     of the water—the officers, Generals and Colonels that have not eat fresh meat
                     for a month. I know that the Commander-in-Chief will not begrudge them a little
                     poultry now and then, from the green fields outside of Boston."
                  "Well, Mr. Officer, fill the basket, while I direct a messenger to run over and
                     bring over one of the guard."
                  Saying this, he left the cellar.
                  Ki filled his basket leisurely, and seating himself upon a chair, thus
                     soliloquised:
                  "I must send one of my men right down to camp, to bring up the old workin' suit
                     that I luckily bro't down from Oakdale. Then, if I clap that on, and get over
                     to Boston with this basket on my shoulder, I think I'll pass for a countryman
                     who's run the gauntlet on one side, to make a few gold guineas out of the
                     King's men. The letter I carry is to be given to a woman that I shall meet when
                     I land—very good—I'm allowed three days—in that time, if I can find out Harry,
                     he shall leave Boston as soon as I do, by the holy poker of Jerusalem—but it's
                     getting dark here somehow or other," and he turned his eye upon the candle,
                     which was near dying in the socket.
                  His eye was arrested by a singular object.
                  A door, which he had not before noticed, in a corner of the cellar, was
                     partially unclosed, through which a head was thrust, peering into the gathering
                     darkness. The expression of the face was peculiarly hideous in the flickering
                     light. For half a minute, Ki and the glaring eyes of the head looked upon each
                     other steadily.
                  "Friend, if you be a friend, come inside. I don't think you are darned polite
                     to stay out there. We'll have another candle soon."
                  Slowly the door began to close, and the head disappeared by inches. A thought
                     ran through Ki's brain—his soliloquy might have been heard—perhaps this man was
                     a spy, and had discovered the object of his approaching mission to
                     Boston.
                  He rushed towards the door, which was instantly closed, and a bolt thrust on
                     the inside. In making the spring, the candle was knocked down, and the place
                     was left in complete darkness. The door resisted his efforts to break it open,
                     but gave way after a few trials, and Ki found himself in a large open cellar or
                     vault, through which a stream of air rushed, but the darkness was intense.
                     Which way to grope was impossible for any certainty of finding the intruder. A
                     light streamed through the doorway, and Ki saw, in the apartment he had just
                     left, the figure of Evans holding a lamp, together with one of his own
                     guard.
                  "Come this way, quick. Some rogue or other is in the cellar, and if I catch
                     him, he'll take a trouncing, that's all."
                  The search was vain. An old passage-way leading to the lawn in front of the
                     dwelling, showed conclusively how the intruder had entered and escaped. Evans
                     appeared to be astonished when he heard Ki's story, but simply remarked—"Some
                     poor sojer determined to have a good meal, nothing more." There was something
                     in the expression of Evan's eye and countenance that did not please Ki when he
                     made this remark.
                  In the course of an hour, the guard returned from Charlestown Neck with Ki's
                     country suit, and escorted by Evans, the Ensign was conducted to a chamber,
                     where he intended to take a few hours repose,
                  Ki equipped himself in the dress that had been brought to him from camp, and
                     threw himself upon the bed. In a short time he was buried in slumber. He had
                     placed upon the chair in the room his military clothes, and the pocket of the
                     coat contained the package which had been entrusted him by Washington. The
                     chair stood under a window, which opened directly upon the lawn.
                  An hour after he had lain down, the window was slowly opened, and a head thrust
                     in. The moon had slowly risen, and threw its light over the floor, but the bed
                     upon which Ki reposed was in deep shadow. There was a hideous grin upon the
                     mouth of the head that looked into the room. A hand was stretched forward.
                  Ki started—murmured something—he was dreaming. The head was instantly drawn
                     back!
                  Ki indeed dreamt—he thought he was in Boston, that he was about to deliver the
                     package given to him to a woman, who muttered the cabalistic words, "Who has
                     rebel goods to sell?" when another voice repeated in a strong tone, "Beware!"
                     He drew back the package, but it was too late—it was seized by a soldier who
                     stood nigh—there was a general cry of "Spy! Spy!" Ki awoke, and as he opened
                     his eyes, they rested upon the open window.
                  A hand was thrust in.
                  "Am I dreaming, or is this reality," thought Ki. In a moment after he had
                     decided. The hand was about taking the package from the coat in which it was
                     deposited, when Ki leapt from the bed—the package dropped, and the window fell
                     with a sudden crash.
                  He looked out of the window, but all was still, not a shadow even disturbed the
                     pale light of the moon, as it fell across the lawn, but he could hear from a
                     distance the faint steps of the sentinels, as to and fro they walked their
                     solitary rounds.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  KI IN BOSTON.
                  Day was just breaking as a small boat touched the Boston shore opposite
                     Charlestown. It contained but one person, dressed in the garb of a countryman.
                     A basket covered with a blanket, but from which peeped out the head of a
                     dressed pig ready for cooking, and the legs of sundry poultry, betokened one
                     who had come "to trade."
                  "Hould there!" said a sentry in the uniform of the Royal Irish—"ye can't land
                     till the sun rises; the officer of the guard of coorse won't be here before
                     that time, and it's a rule we sojere have that the officers should'nt nivir
                     rise afore the sun."
                  It is hard to describe bribes, they belong to the highest and the
                     lowest—suffice it to say that a fine goose was handed to the sentry, and the
                     countryman passed over the wharf and reached the street which led from it into
                     the city.
                  Here he seated himself with his basket before him, the blanket off, displaying
                     the merchandize he had to sell, until the sun had reached its first hour in the
                     horizon. Many times was Ki accosted (for our readers know that it was him) for
                     the price of his pigs and poultry, but the charge was invariably too high for
                        buyers,*
                        and the dead merchandize remained on hand.
                  
                     
                     *At the time the British were blockaded in Boston, a couple of guineas
                        were often paid for a pair of fowls, fresh meats in proportion
                  
                  "Who sells rebel goods?"
                  Ki looked up, and saw a woman dressed as he expected, but the hideous face
                     displayed under the bonnet, checked him—he had beheld it before—it was the face
                     he had seen the night preceding at head-quarters.
                  The woman passed on, but Ki did not follow. In a few moments
                     after, two officers approached, evidently of high rank, from the obsequiousness
                     paid them by the crowd.
                  "Ah! Percy, here is what I want," said one to the other—"sucking pigs, fowls
                     and what not. My return dinner to Gage and Howe comes off to-day, and this
                     countryman appears to have an assortment."
                  "Yes, Burgoyne, my mouth waters at the sight. I haven't seen a pullet before
                     for a month. Strike a bargain for the whole, Burgoyne, at once, or Gage's
                     steward will be before you."
                  "How much for the basket, fellow?"
                  "Ten guineas," said Ki.
                  "A bargain—follow us, my servant appears to be missing. Percy, we'll have a
                     couple of chickens for breakfast, by Jove," said Burgoyne.
                  Ki shouldered the basket, but had not gone three steps when a woman passed him,
                     whispering lightly in his ear, "Who sells rebel goods—follow me—turn the next
                     lane and you will be unperceived."
                  Ki watched his opportunity, keeping the woman in sight, as he walked behind the
                     two officers, and in five minutes after, entered an alley, unnoticed by
                     Burgoyne and Percy, the female still leading.
                  
                  Proceeding a short distance down the alley-way, the woman stopped before the
                     door of a brick stable. Taking out a small key, she opened the door; and held
                     up her finger for Ki to follow. The latter immediately entered the place, when
                     the door was closed and an extra bolt drawn.
                  The stable was unoccupied by anything in the shape of horses: but a few bags of
                     oats and some bay, which hung down from the rack, were evident conclusions that
                     the beasts were only temporarily absent. The female, who had all the while kept
                     her veil down, led Ki out into an open court, where a grass plot, with
                     flower-beds, and the rear of a house not far off, showed that the stable and
                     garden were attached to a mansion of some extent. Following his guide, Ki
                     ascended a flight of steps, (leaving his basket, as requested, below) which led
                     directly to a room over the stable. He found himself in a little apartment,
                     well but plainly furnished, with a bed, table and chairs.
                  "Now then, honest Ki, I may as well unveil, and show you the face of an old
                     acquaintance; one whom you have carried many times in your arms, through brake
                     and brier, and over the leaping streams of our dear native place, when I was a
                     happy little girl, never thinking of such troublesome times as these, dear
                     Ki."
                  She did unveil, and Ki at once clasped her in his arms, imprinting a kiss upon
                     her cheek, with all the devotion of an old guardian.—The unknown female was
                     MARY MANNERS.
                  "There, there," said she, laughingly, as he replaced her on the floor,
                     "remember I am in my teens now, and can't bear kissing as I used too."
                  "Excuse me, dear Miss Mary," said the good-hearted giant, "but I was thinking
                     of old times, when there never was a scamper in the woods, of yourself and
                     Harry, after black-berries and buckle-berries, but Ki Lane had to be the leader
                     and guide. So, Miss, you are Washington's confidant?"
                  "Yes, Ki, I love my country best, though my father does stick to the king. But
                     Washington does not know who his informant and correspondent is, nor must he
                     know. You have papers for me from the General?"
                  "Yes, Miss Mary, here is the package," and Ki gave her the bundle.
                  Mary Manners hastily tore open the package, and perused the letters. Whatever
                     the contents may have been, they affected her deeply, for several times tears
                     gathered in her eyes, and once she said, half aloud, "My poor country!" When
                     she had finished reading, she went to a little fire-place in the room, drew
                     from a closet a tinder-box, struck a light and applied a match to the papers,
                     which were soon consumed, leaving no vestige behind save a few blackened
                     fragments.
                  "There, Ki, the contents are treasured in my heart; the
                        written secrets are beyond the knowledge of my country's
                     enemies, come what will. Now for my plans. I have engaged you as my coachman;
                     this, remember, is to be the story. By engaging you in my service, I shall be
                     able to communicate further intelligence to Washington. In two days I will see
                     that you have an opportunity to escape, with such matters as will be of
                     importance to the General. You consent, of course, Ki?"
                  "Yes, Miss Mary, I do; but won't your father recognize me, think? you know he
                     used to call me a descendant of Anak, the giant of scripture—how will it turn
                     out, then?"
                  "I will arrange matters so that he will not see you. Yonder is a livery coat,
                     that may be rather short for you, I confess, still it will answer for the short
                     time you will be in Boston.
                  Ki took down the coat and put it on, and to a tailor's eye it would have been
                     rather a scant pattern it is true, but still it answered the purpose
                     designed.
                  "Now Miss Mary, how is Harry—is he getting well over his wound, and does he
                     know anything of my being in Boston?"
                  "Nothing—but, he shall know in a short time. His wound is so far cured that 
                        hs
                        he
                      is able to walk without a crutch, but rather feeble as yet. Remain
                     here perfectly quiet for a few moments, until I return."
                  She opened a small door and disappeared. Ki looked cautiously into the garden
                     from the window, which it overlooked. He saw two or three British officers in
                     uniform traversing the walks, conversing together, but they were too far off
                     for him to hear distinctly what they said In a few moments his earnest
                     attention was drawn to the appearance of one he had thrice soon before.
                  A man came from the stable beneath and went up to one of the officers, whom he
                     drew aside, and they engaged ardently in conversation, frequently turning and
                     looking towards the stable attentively, The face of this man was singularly
                     unprepossessing. The small pox had scarred and seamed his face terribly, only
                     adding a diabolical expression to features naturally disagreeable.
                  His eyes were piercing black, which glistened occasionally under heavy, coarse
                     eye-brows like sparks of fire. A thick short nose lips of unusual solidity, and
                     a pointed chin, projected almost even with the tip of the nasal organ, gave him
                     a general appearance of ferocity and treachery. His figure was short, but
                     firmly built, and the breadth of his shoulders denoted a frame of great
                     strength, and capable of enduring long fatigue. This man was the person Ki had
                     seen twice the night before at Cambridge—the face of the pretended woman who
                     had accosted him in the morning.
                  "What can this mean?" asked Ki of himself.
                  "What mean?" replied a soft voice at his elbow.
                  Ki turned and beheld Miss Manners, dressed in the costume which became her. The
                     market woman's coarse gown had been removed, and in a dress of pure white, her
                     hair tied with a simple ribbon that permitted the curls to hang around her
                     beautiful face, she stood before Ki, the very personification of female
                     loveliness.
                  "I mean that rascally-looking character yonder, talking with the British
                     officer. Who is he, Miss Mary?"
                  "Oh, that is Dick Watson, Major Adair's servant; he is speaking to his master.
                     He is no beauty, Ki, I must admit, but he is considered honest and faithful in
                     spite of his looks."
                  "As to his honesty, Miss Mary, the less said about it the better. He may be
                     faithful to his master, but I think, for all that, he's a villain, and my life
                     wouldn't be worth a straw did he know I was here."
                  "You alarm me, Ki; tell me your meaning," said Mary, turning her bright blue
                     eyes enquiringly upon his face. Ki related the events that had occurred to him
                     in the morning and on the night before.
                  "This is very strange," replied the young lady; "I am sure Watkins was in
                     Boston last night; I did not retire until ten, and I saw him with Major Adair
                     at that hour."
                  "Who is Major Adair?"
                  "My cousin, the son of my father's sister. My father is an Englishman, by
                     birth, you know, Ki."
                  "Can this fellow know anything about the messages you send out of the city to
                     the General, Miss Mary?"
                  "It seems to me impossible, but you have put me on my guard," was the answer.
                     "How could he know? I have been very careful to commit my messages faithfully.
                     Stay here until my return. If any one should come up the stairs, open that
                     door—it leads, by a narrow passage, down stairs again to the little
                     summer-house you see yonder, covered with a grape vine and creepers. That place
                     is sacred to me alone—you will not be disturbed there by any one. I shall bring
                     you a message from Harry when I return. Good by." And she left the room by the
                     door which she had pointed out.
                  In about five minutes after, Ki saw her open the door of the summer house and
                     proceed up the walk where Major Adair and his servant were still conversing.
                     The former immediately advanced a few steps, leaving his servant alone, and
                     extended his arm politely to Miss Manners, and led her towards the house.
                  The servant entered the stable, and Ki had the satisfaction of perceiving him
                     leave it a moment after, bearing upon his shoulders the basket containing the
                     pigs and poultry which he himself had deposited there no great while before.
                     Watching him closely, he saw him enter the kitchen of the mansion with his
                     load.
                  By this time it had got to be near 10 o'clock of a long summer's morning, and
                     Ki having eaten nothing since the night before at Gen. Lee's quarters, from
                     whence he had been summoned by Washington's message, no wonder that a healthy
                     man, of his frame and stature, began to feel somewhat the cravings of hunger.
                     But where to get food was a question. True, Miss Manners might return soon. "If
                     she does," thought he, "it will be awkward for me to say 'I want my breakfast,'
                     as if speaking to the landlady of a tavern, where I can get that I want for
                     pay."
                  He was soon relieved from suspense on that score, for he say Miss Manners with
                     a covered basket pass from the mansion towards the summer-house with a hurried
                     step, her eye turned towards the window where he stood concealed by a blind. A
                     motion of her hand convinced him that she wished him to descend.
                  He opened the door, and, proceeding along the passage, and down the steps, he
                     entered the summer-house from the rear, the door that way being concealed from
                     any observation from the mansion.
                  "Ki," said Miss Manners, anxiously, "there is your breakfast—I know that you
                     have eaten nothing to-day, and I have hurried from our breakfast room to tell
                     you that danger is around. Harry Burnham has been suddenly exchanged this
                     morning for Lieutenant Gould*
                      who was taken prisoner at Lexington, and he was forced to leave for the
                     camp at Cambridge without even seeing me. I can say no more now.
                     Remain here in quiet—do not go back to the room from whence you came—I will be
                     with you in an hour. Be on your guard.—Hush!" with her finger on her lips, she
                     left the summer house.
                  
                     
                     *Lieut. Edward Thornton Gould, of the 7th regiment, was wounded and taken
                        prisoner at Lexington See his letter published in the 1st vol. of the
                        British Remembrancer.
                  
                  "Rather ticklish, this situation," said Ki to himself as he sat down by the
                     table on which stood the basket. "So Harry is exchanged! Good. I'll take my
                     breakfast any how. 1 may as well die full as empty: perhaps, if I get a cord
                     round my neck, the weight may break my neck the sooner, and make the pain of
                     dying less."
                  He uncovered the basket, and to his 
                        agreeble
                        agreeable
                      surprise, saw one of the pullets which he had himself brought from
                     the American camp, nicely broiled—three or four slices of bread and butter, a
                     pot of excellent coffee, as he found upon taken a hearty draught, and other
                     accompaniments. It was not long before his inner man felt much satisfied with
                     such refreshments, and he felt the more ready to defy the dangers that
                     surrounded him.
                  Of a sudden he heard voices in close conversation by a window of the summer
                     house, the blinds of which fully concealed him from view. He fastened the door
                     and listened.
                  "I am sure, Major, it was him. Think I can't remember his big body—the man that
                     struck me down with a blow that would half kill an ox, but, luckily for me, my
                     cap plate glanced it off. I know the man, and it's him."
                  "Yes, Watkins, I believe all that; but what has Miss Manners to do with the
                     matter?"
                  "He followed her into the stable, Major, with that basket of provisions. I saw
                     him, and the door was shut in my face. When I got round the front way, they'd
                     concealed themselves somehow. But he ain't gone—he's here somewhere."
                  "You say that Washington delivered him a package?"
                  "Yes, Major, I saw him do it with my own eyes; they were close to the window.
                     If this long 
                        leged
                        legged
                      fellow hadn't woke up so quick, I'd have got it out of his pocket
                     last night; but I didn't lose sight of him for all that, Major."
                  "You saw him, you say, at the time he
                     landed from Cambridge, with his basket on his back; why did you not arrest
                     him?"
                  "Because I wanted to catch him in the act of a spy, and lead him
                     before Gov. Gage. I knew the pass word—I heard it when 'twas told him last
                     night; besides, Evans, the rebel general's butler or household man, is my
                     friend, and we arranged the matter between us. But this fellow was too cunning;
                        he didn't follow me. I went for a guard as soon as I got my
                     woman's dress off, but he was gone, and I had just time to track him to the
                     outer door of the stable, when I was locked out, as I told you."
                  Major Adair paused for a moment before he made any reply. He was deeply in love
                     with his cousin Mary Manners, and hoped that his love was returned. He was a
                     vain man, malicious and revengeful withal, and had risen to the rank he held
                     from family considerations and the purchase of a commission, not from any of
                     the proper qualifications which should follow the advancement of military
                     ranks.—He came out with his regiment at the commencement of the American
                     rebellion, as it was called, participated at a distance in the
                     battle of Bunker's Hill, and considered himself a soldier. Foolish thought! He
                     was entitled to it, for it was his own.
                  "But I cannot see yet what Miss Manners has to do with this matter?" he said
                     enquiringly to his servant Watkins.
                  "Nor I, sir, exactly, as yet, but I'll see—wait here a moment."
                  Watkins started off, and Ki saw him enter the stable, from which he soon
                     returned, bearing in one hand the coat he had left in the room when he put on
                     the livery jacket. "See, here is the coat of the fellow himself. I know he
                     cannot be far off. In the fire place there is a lot of cinders—the dispatches
                     have been burned; but he's about somewhere, and we'll have him—we'll have
                     him."
                  Major Adair took his villanous servant aside "like master like man,' and
                     conversed with him a short time. The latter, Ki saw leave the place, the Major
                     continuing on the watch, and looking from time to time on the summer-house, and
                     then turning his eye towards the window of the room above the stable.
                  The chief wish of Ki was to escape from his place of confinement, so as not to
                     compromise Miss Manners. He had made up his mind for the worst as regarded
                     himself, but he wished, for double reasons, no others to be committed in any
                     discovery. He passed from the summer-house to the stable, but on looking out he
                     saw a file of grenadiers surrounding the alley. Escape, that way, was
                     impossible, and he returned back to the summer-house to abide the issue.
                  No sooner had he done so, when he saw, through, the blinds, advancing from the
                     mansion house, another file of men, headed by Watkins.
                  "Well," said Ki, seizing a heavy bar in his hand, "come death, one way is as
                     short as another; I'll not answer for the lives of the first two or three that
                     enter this room."
                  "Whoever," said Major Adair, in a loud tone, as the soldiers advanced, "may be
                     in that summer-house, come forth!" There was a pause, but no answer. "Men,
                     break open the door!"
                  Two of them advanced and commenced striking heavy blows. They had not repeated
                     their efforts long before Mary Manners, highly excited, rushed down the
                     walk.
                  "Major Adair," she said, in a commanding tone, "what mean you, sir?. You well
                     know this summer-house is my private retreat.—Stop these soldiers from their
                     base attempts to enter it!"
                  She spoke too late. The door gave way beneath their blows; they rushed in,
                     headed by Watkins, but the room was empty; there was no vestige of a
                        human being to be seen; all was quiet; the place was vacant!
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  ARRIVAL OF THE VIRGINIA RIFLEMEN—BURNHAM EXCHANGED.
                  It was on a bright morning in July, the air not over sultry or heated, when the
                     Commander-in-Chief of the Continental forces was seated at his quarters at
                     Cambridge, at the breakfast table. The table had been placed in the 
                        piazzi
                        piazza
                      of the mansion which he occupied, and not only his immediate military
                     family were breakfasting with him, but Lee Putnam, Gates and other officers
                     were also there.
                  "You have managed, Evans, in spite of certain deductions from the larder which
                     you tell me occurred last night, to produce a good supply of stimulants," said
                     Washington, turning to the director of his military household. "Really,
                     gentlemen, New England is a country worth defending and fighting for."
                  "Yes, sir, your Excellency," replied the obsequious Evans, "but I thought that
                     tall man, when he rummaged the larder last night, would'nt leave a mouthful for
                     the morning's meal."
                  "Never mind his requisites," was the reply, "he acted under my
                     orders, Evans, and the meals of a day are not of much importance, when we have
                     such a supply left. What say you, gentlemen, does there appear anything
                     lacking?"
                  "Well, your Excellency," answered Lee, as he broke a couple of boiled eggs on
                     his plate, "I must say that I never have tasted, either abroad or in Virginia,
                     a finer slice of ham; did you, Gates?"
                  "Never; but here is Putnam now who can answer the question better, he being a
                     New Englander."
                  "Tolerable, tolerable," answered the veteran, "the ham is certainly good, the
                     eggs fresh, the chickens young, and the coffee well made. But we Yankees always
                     like o live well. What music is that?"
                  The notes of a Virginia conch-shell, sounding somewhat like the tones of a
                     bugle of the present time, came echoing from a distance through the air, and
                     the lively sound create a stir at the breakfast table.
                  Washington himself, for an instant, be his head, and listened with emotions of
                     pleasure, that could be perceived in his countenance as he looked up. He bowed
                     silently to the orderly who stood near, and the latter, recognizing the silent
                     order, immediately left the piazza.
                  "The tones of that conch-shell, General, remind me of those we heard twenty
                     years ago, on Braddock's fatal field,"*
                        said Gates.
                  
                     
                     *Gates was a Major in the British army at the time of Braddock's defeat,
                        in the summer of 1755. He came from England with that unfortunate
                        General. Washington, at the time, was Colonel of the Virginians or
                        Provincials, and saved the remnant of the regulars.
                  
                  The eccentric Lee had risen from the table, and crossing the piazza, gazed
                     attentively up the road, from which the advance of the troops seemed to come,
                     heralded by their music.
                  "By G—d,†
                      General, yonder-comes our own Virginia rifle-shirts, huzza! huzza!"
                     and, without observing the etiquette in the presence of the Commander-in-Chief,
                     (the latter was well aware of Lee's singularities) he commenced dancing around
                     the piazza, exclaiming: "See, Gates, see, Putnam. Old Virginia forever! Huzza!
                     huzza!"
                  
                     
                     †Our readers must bear with us occasionally in the use of such terms. Lee
                        was sometimes profane, and this was his usual oath. Lee, as well as
                        Gates, had purchased property in Virginia, where they resided, after
                        leaving the British army, on half pay. They were both appointed in the
                        continental service from Virginia.
                  
                  The orderly came running down the road, (he was an old favorite of the
                     Commander-in-Chief, having served with him in the French war on the
                     Monongahela, and at Braddock's defeat, being a Virginian by birth,) almost out
                     of breath, and even he could hardly contain himself in the presence of the
                     General, as he touched his hat, exclaiming:
                  "Oh! sir, three companies of Virginia rifles, under Capt. Dan Morgan, are close
                     by, from the good old colony, God bless it! only three weeks since they
                     left—marched all the way on foot. Huzza! huzza!"
                  The three companies now appeared marching along the road in Indian file, in
                     parallel lines. At their head was Dan Morgan, his muscular and brawny figure
                     appearing to great advantage, with his rifle strapped upon his back, and sword
                     in hand, preceding so martial a body as the riflemen. The two other captains
                     marched at the head of their respective companies, one of whom was Frank
                     Fairfax.
                  Washington beckoned to his staff, and left the piazza, followed by Lee, Putnam,
                     and Gates. As the riflemen marched in front they drew up in line, halted, and
                     brought their rifles to a port, the mode of salute of the period. Washington
                     raised his chapeau—the shell, bugles, and fifes struck up a lively tune, and
                     when it ceased Morgan came forward and saluted the Commander-in-Chief.
                  "Well, Morgan," said Washington, "you have been quick in joining the camp
                     before Boston; I did not expect to see you for a couple of weeks at least."
                  "Sir, we Virginia boys, didn't want to be behind our neighbor colonies in
                     toeing the mark, and here are two hundred and fifty of us that will pull a
                     trigger against any others in the thirteen colonies."
                  "They look equal to any emergency. I never saw a finer body of men among the
                     rangers of '55, and they were the cream of New England," said Putnam to the
                     Commander-in-Chief and Morgan, as he surveyed the stalwart forms and bronzed
                     faces of the riflemen.
                  "They are indeed fine fellows, Putnam," replied Washington, with a visible
                     gleam of pride for his native Virginians. "What hour did you leave your last
                     encampment, Morgan?"
                  "At three o'clock this morning, Sir."
                  "Then it is time that your men had their breakfast, indeed. Major Trumbull,"
                     said Washington to one of his aids, "please wait instantly on the
                     barrack-master and quarter-master-general, and see that the men have quarters
                     and provisions furnished them at once. Morgan, yourself and officers will take
                     breakfast at my table. Evans, see to new supplies."
                  A Lieutenant took charge of the men, who were marched away to temporary
                     quarters and to their morning's meal. The officers were respectively introduced
                     to Washington and his Generals. When Frank Fairfax approached, the
                     Commander-in-Chief instantly recognized him, and said, as he took him by the
                     hand:
                  "I am glad to see the son of my old friend and neighbor, Richard Fairfax, in
                     arms for his country. Gentlemen," said he, turning to his officers, "this young
                     gentleman is the son of one of the most influential men in Virginia, now a
                     member of the Continental Congress at Philadelphia—Captain Frank Fairfax of the
                     rifles."
                  Frank was then introduced immediately to the company, and a general
                     conversation ensued between the officers until breakfast was announced. when
                     the Commander-in-Chief withdrew to attend to his correspondence and the
                     military duties of the day. The officers partook of a hearty and plentiful
                     meal, which Evans had prepared at the shortest notice.
                  After breakfast, Frank's first inquiry was to the latest information from
                     Burnham, he having ascertained, on the route, that his wound, though severe,
                     was not considered extremely dangerous, and that he remained a prisoner in
                     Boston. Major Trumbull referred him to General Putnam for more particular
                     information. The old General gave him the latest report from his friend—that he
                     was rapidly recovering, owing more particularly to the kind treatment of the
                     friends he had found in Boston.
                  "Is there no officer that can be exchanged for him?" inquired Fairfax,
                     anxiously.
                  "Yesterday, Lieutenant Gould, of the 7th regiment, who was wounded and taken
                     prisoner by us at Lexington, has so far recovered as to be brought into camp;
                     and I intend to propose to the Commander-in-Chief that he be sent over, with a
                     flag of truce, and exchanged for Burnham."
                  "With your permission, General, I will
                     wait on Washington at once, and ask to be the bearer of the flag. Burnham is to
                     me as a brother."
                  "Certainly, my young friend. Your proposal is a good one, and, perhaps, under
                     the circumstances, the application would come best from you."
                  Fairfax immediately left the old General and took his route to head quarters.
                     He found no difficulty in procuring admittance to Washington, who heard him,
                     with parental affection, narrate the friendship of Burnham and himself, and,
                     without hesitation, granted his request of going into Boston with a flag,
                     taking Lieut. Gould with him as an exchange for his friend, Burnham. The proper
                     documents were soon made out and countersigned by the Commander-in-Chief, who,
                     handing them to Fairfax, said:
                  "There, my good youth, are the necessary papers. Take the prisoner with you to
                     Boston and exchange him for your friend. I like to see feeling between young
                     men, such as you exhibit towards your college-mate in his trouble. The instant
                     you return, come both of you to head quarters."
                  Fairfax returned his thanks to the Commander-in-Chief, and instantly repaired
                     to the house where the British Lieutenant Gould was quartered, not under guard,
                     for he was allowed the parole of the camp. He luckily found the officer at his
                     quarters, and when he communicated the intelligence of the probable exchange to
                     Lieutenant Gould, the latter expressed himself in the strongest terms of
                     joy.
                  "I am doubly gratified," said the British Lieutenant, who was not more than
                     nineteen years of age, "at the probable result of what you have told me. I have
                     seen enough of this unnatural war. Although, as a true-born Briton, I honor and
                     respect the king, I am determined not to bear arms against the Americans. I
                     will resign my commission first and return home to my parents in England, who,
                     by this time, doubtless, in their little knowledge of your countrymen, think me
                     hacked to death by tomahawks, as if you were Indians. Never, Captain, could
                     wounded man receive greater attention than fell to my lot after being taken
                     prisoner by your countrymen at Lexington. I shall never forget it, and never
                     will I bear arms against them."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Lieutenant Gould, in his affidavit after his capture at Lexington,
                        expressed himself in the highest terms of the kind treatment he received
                        from the Americans whilst a wounded prisoner.
                  
                  At the period of the occurrence related by the prisoner, New Englanders and
                     Virginians considered themselves as one people; and Fairfax, when
                     the English officer related how well he had been treated, felt as much a glow
                     of pleasure as though Virginia had been spoken of, instead of another section
                     of the colonies. There were no local feelings then.
                  
                  "Do not say a word, Lieutenant, about kind treatment. I am well aware that a
                     large portion of the people of England think us a mixed race of whites,
                     negroes, and Indians; speaking a language that has no analogy with that of any
                     civilized race; barbarous beyond example, and rebellious without license. They
                     will soon change this "opinion. I know the principle which induces you never
                     again to take up arms against us. In after years it will be to you a just
                     source of pride, when we have become an independent nation—as we
                        will be—to say that you knew us in our infancy, and respected
                     us, and that you honor us in our prosperity."
                  "Captain Fairfax," said the British officer, "let me relate to you a remarkable
                     event that has occurred to me in this unhappy difficulty between the colonies
                     and the mother country, and then say if I should not be one of the basest of
                     men, if I ever bore arms once more against your countrymen. After the
                     skirmishes at Lexington and Concord, and our retreat to Boston—for, let
                     Pitcairne and Percy say what they will, it was a retreat—I was
                     stationed in the rear guard. I noticed among our pursuers two—the eldest was
                     not more than sixteen—who followed us on the route, from time to time firing at
                     us from behind trees and stone walls, and they never failed to bring down those
                     at whom they fired. The oldest at length came so near as to expose himself, and
                     just as he discharged his musket, I seized a loaded gun from one of my men,
                     fired, and he fell dead: my ball had passed through his heart. My triumph in
                     getting rid of this dangerous youth was of short duration.
                  "A large party of your countrymen approached on our flank, and picked off our
                     men almost as they pleased, in passing through a narrow defile. At length I
                     received a wound myself and fell. I ordered the men around me to follow their
                     comrades, for I knew that all attempts to carry me to Boston would be idle.
                     Judge of my horror when I saw a boy, the companion of the elder youth I had
                     shot, come within ten feet of me as I lay upon the ground, unable to move, and
                     take deliberate aim at my head. It was an agonizing instant, captain, for
                     thoughts of home and all I held dear, flashed through my brain, I was to see
                     them no more. The finger of the boy was on the trigger, when a voice like that
                     of some guardian angel, shouted in a vehement tone, 'David, what do you mean!
                     firing at a man unable to defend himself, shame, shame! lift up your gun, boy.'
                     The youth obeyed the order, but said in a crying tone, 'why, captain, it's the
                     officer that shot poor brother Jotham, what shall I tell mother when I get
                     home?"
                  "'Tell her that little Jotham behaved like a man, and that neither you nor he
                     fired at a wounded enemy. Here, lend me your assistance, men,' said the voice,
                     and soon after I felt myself borne away, whither I knew not, for I was too weak
                     and faint to open my eyes to recognize faces or forms; nor was it until a week
                     afterwards that I knew exactly my position, when I found myself faithfully
                     tended, at a farm-house, by a matron of true motherly affection. But why go on?
                     She who nursed me and poured balm on my wounds, was the mother of the boy
                        I had killed!" The Lieutenant paused for a moment, and hastily wiped
                     his eyes. "Captain, when I raise my finger again to war upon your countrymen,
                     may my arm fall from its socket! But see, my baggage is ready; I am now
                     prepared to accompany you to Boston."
                  Little more was said, either on the part of the English officer or Fairfax, as
                     they passed down towards Charles River, where they embarked in a flag-boat for
                     Boston.
                  On reaching the Boston side, Fairfax was requested by the officer on duty at
                     the landing-place to deliver the letter to General Gage into his hand, as the
                     orders were imperative that no American officer should enter Boston without the
                     permission of Gage himself.
                  In about a quarter of an hour, the officer returned, in company with another,
                     dressed in the uniform of the Americans. Thin and pale as he was, Fairfax
                     recognized at once his chum and classmate, Harry Burnham, and, leaping on the
                     wharf, the friends were locked in each other's arms.
                  "General Gage, sir," said the English officer to Fairfax, "consents to the
                     exchange of Mr. Burnham for Lieutenant Gould. His orders are also
                     imperative that the flag-boat leaves Boston the instant the exchange is
                     effected."
                  "My compliments to Mr. Gage," said Fairfax, ironically, in reply,
                     "I have no desire to remain; my object is accomplished. Harry, step into the
                     boat; there, lean on my shoulder—you are weak. Lieutenant Gould, this is my
                     friend Burnham. Farewell, Lieutenant—I shall ever remember the sentiments you
                     have uttered, with esteem for yourself, as a gentleman and a soldier. Push off,
                     lads."
                  "Why, Frank," said Burnham, after the boat was headed for the opposite shore,
                     "I have been completely taken by surprise. I received notice ten minutes since
                     that I was exchanged, with immediate orders to leave Boston — orders so abrupt
                     and authoritative, that I was not allowed to wait long enough to say farewell
                     to the kind friends—friends, dear Frank, of my early days—who have watched me
                     with the affection of parent and sister—the old Doctor, and his daughter, Mary
                     Manners."
                  "I reached the camp, this morning, Harry, after a long march from Virginia. I
                     learned you had not been exchanged. I waited upon our good Washington, and he
                     at once gave me permission to go over with a flag, and take Lieutenant Gould in
                     exchange for you—here we are."
                  "Thank you, thank you, Frank; what else could I expect from your friendship?
                     But, tell me, is our new general the Colonel Washington of Braddock's
                     battle?"
                  "The same brave man, Harry. But you will soon see him, for my orders are to
                     bring you to head-quarters immediately."
                  The two friends now engaged in private conversation, interesting only to
                     themselves, which did not cease until the boat had touched the shore at the
                     American out-post on the Charles river side. They passed up the road towards
                     Cambridge, conversing as before, when an officer on horseback, of noble
                     personal bearing, passed suddenly before them, followed, at some distance, by
                     three or four aids. Fairfax at once raised his cap, and Burnham involuntarily
                     did the same. The officer slightly inclined his head, and pointed towards his
                     quarters, which Fairfax understood.
                  "That is the Commander-in-Chief," said Fairfax.
                  Burnham looked attentively, as the officer rode away, his charger being at full
                     speed. He saw Washington for the first time.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  KI'S RE-APPEARANCE.
                  When, as we related at the conclusion of the thirteenth chapter, the door of
                     the summer-house, in which Ki was supposed to be, was broken open, and nothing
                     in the shape of a human being was to be seen, there was a sudden stillness on
                     the part of the intruders—the quiet of astonishment.
                  Mary Manners was the first to break silence, when she turned an indignant
                     glance upon Major Adair, though her voice trembled with emotion, it was more of
                     a sudden fear than anger, for the sudden disappearance of Lane, as much
                     surprised herself as any one present.
                  "Major Adair—you are a British officer. It has always been the boast of those
                     in that uniform, ever to respect the wish of a lady. This place you knew was
                     mine—as sacred to me, as the privacy of my own chamber—you a
                     British officer, bearing his majesty's commission, a man of honor,
                     attack with a file of soldiers an untenanted summer-house. Oh! what a hero you
                     are, the Bayard of the British army."
                  "Miss Manners, I—I," here the valiant Major stammered with vexation, not
                     knowing what to say; then, to vent his spleen upon something or somebody, he
                     turned upon his servant Watkins, whom he seized by the collar, and struck two
                     or three times over the back with the flat of his sword, exclaiming:
                  "Rascal, why did you tell me there was a rebel spy concealed in that
                     summer-house?—Speak, or I'll break every bone in your body!"
                  The man turned upon him, anger and insolence alike flashing from his hideous
                     countenance, and said:
                  "You know, as well as I, the reasons; you know I tracked a man, with a basket
                     of provisions upon his shoulder, to the stable yonder, and that he followed a
                     lady, very much resembling that young miss; and, more than all, there is his
                     coat, which I found in a room over the stable. That's all. I am a faithful
                     servant of the king, and opposed to all spies."
                  "Yes, Miss Manners," said the Major, somewhat recovering from his confusion;
                     "true enough, here is his coat: a man was certainly seen to enter the
                     stable."
                  "And so," replied the young lady, "because I went out this morning,
                        myself, to make some purchases for the dinner, which my father
                     was to give to a few of his friends, among whom you pretend to be one, you
                     place a spy upon my actions, and the poor countryman, who brought his basket
                     here according to my directions, is, if caught, to be tried for his life. What
                     manliness on the part of a British officer, sir!"
                  
                  By this time, quite a number of the inmates of the mansion, aroused by the
                     noise and the appearance of a file of soldiers in the garden, had hastened to
                     the spot; among the rest, Doctor Manners and Major Small. The latter part of
                     Miss Manners' speech to Major Adair had been heard by them, and there was a
                     frown upon the face of Dr. Manners, as he looked inquiringly upon the offending
                     British officer.
                  "What is the meaning of this conduct, Major Adair?" said the Doctor.
                  In a blundering manner, the Major endeavored to exculpate himself as far as he
                     was able, turning, as before, the reasons of his conduct upon his servant
                     Watkins. He did not fail, however, to exhibit the coat, triumphantly, as some
                     excuse for what he had done. When he had finished, his servant Watkins
                     commenced saying something, as insolently as before. He had hardly got half a
                     dozen words from his mouth, when Major Small spoke, severely:
                  "Go to your quarters, sir, and learn to address yourself to your superior
                     officers only when asked. Soldiers, I am commander here; retire at once to your
                     barracks. Major Adair, your conduct, to say the least, is highly reprehensible,
                     and unbecoming an officer."
                  The Major made no reply, but looked daggers, as he silently sheathed his sword,
                     turned on his heel, and entered the mansion, followed by the Doctor, to ask an
                     explanation.
                  Major Small and Miss Manners were left alone. The former beckoned the young
                     lady to enter the summer-house, where they seated themselves.
                  "So, my rebel miss," he said, in a jocular tone, "some stratagem on your part,
                     in favor of one of your treasonable countrymen.—Don't interrupt me. I'm an old
                     soldier, and I know there is something concealed in this matter,
                     and perhaps it is well for you that Adair is such a blunderer. One thing let me
                     say to you. I do not blame you for your affection to your country; it is but
                     natural Gage is a severe disciplinarian, and, since the battle of Bunker's
                     Hill, highly (may I not, as a British officer, say justly) indignant at the men
                     in arms against the King. Should he find any one in the town harboring a rebel,
                     his punishing will be severe: even your sex will not escape. Now if you have
                     one of your erring friends concealed, let me entreat of you to provide for his
                     safety at once. I will leave you here, and pledge you my honor, as a British
                     officer, that this place will not be molested by the soldiers for an hour. Be
                     cautious! farewell!"
                  With honorable delicacy, and intimating that he would hear no reply, the
                     high-minded officer left the summer house, closing the door after him.
                  For a short time the young lady moved not. She saw, through the blinds, Major
                     Small pass along the garden and enter the mansion! Her feelings were strung to
                     a high pitch. "Did Major Small really suspect anything?" she thought. "He must,
                     or he would not have acted so delicately. Can it be that he supposed it may be
                     a concealed lover?" Her face flushed at the thought. "Yet," she
                     mentally exclaimed, "it will not do for me to explain—I cannot. No, no; the
                     Major cannot think ill of me—my honor—oh, no!" and she hid her
                     face in her hands, through which the tears began to trickle.
                  There was a slight noise. First the matting which covered the floor near the
                     door began to move, then a board or two creaked, and slowly emerging from the
                     earth, appeared the head and shoulders of Ki, until his tall form stood
                     completely erect, almost touching the ceiling.
                  We must now explain the cause of his sudden disappearance. Just as the soldiers
                     commenced their blows upon the outside of the door, he stepped heavily near the
                     entrance, with the bar uplifted in his hand, to strike down the first intruder.
                     In so doing, he felt the floor bend beneath his feet. Stooping in an instant,
                     he lifted up the matting, and discovered a square platform of boards; raising
                     this, he perceived a dry well, some ten feet in depth, over which the
                     summer-house had been erected many years before, and the well thus covered
                     over.
                  Nothing is so swift as thought: he raised the platform carefully, placed the
                     matting so as to cover its original position, and let himself down into the
                     well, the platform and its covering falling immediately over him. Just as he
                     had succeeded in doing this, the door was burst open, and, as before related,
                     nothing was to be seen. The confusion that followed had prevented any active
                     search, nor is it probable that his retreat would have been discovered, for the
                     existence of the well was unknown.
                  "Miss Manners," said Ki, proudly, for it seemed the soul of the
                        man was touched within him, "I know what your thoughts are. Let
                     me at once give myself up: nothing will be known from me to criminate you with
                     any correspondence in our camp. I came over to Boston with provisions, as a
                     countryman; if I can't defend myself, why then let me suffer. Better for me to
                     go after the officer who has just left this place, and take the fault on
                     myself. I was frightened, I will say—hid myself; anything,—you shall not be
                     compromised."
                  "No, Ki, I am too glad to see you safe, already, for you to risk your life
                     again. I feel relieved now. If you were to give yourself up on such grounds as
                     you mention, you would receive no mercy from General Gage. Besides, you would
                     be recognized. Watkins, the base servant of a baser master—my cousin, Major
                     Adair,—knows you well, for, as you related to me, he is, I now know, the
                     villain who endeavored to steal your papers. No, Ki—I must arrange some plan
                     for your escape."
                  "Escape! my dear Miss Mary—that's a hard word, I reckon. If I don't, never fear
                     but I'll act as I ought at such a time. I can't get back the way I came, for
                     there's a file of soldiers outside; and that rascal, Watkins, who, I fear, has
                     an accomplice in our camp, will, for his own credit, keep a bright look out all
                     around the building. How am I to escape, my dear young lady? I'll do just as
                     you say."
                  "What a pity for us both, Ki, that Harry should have been exchanged this
                     morning, at the very time when his presence was needed most by us—and left
                     without seeing me!—Well, it was to be so. Ki, can you
                     take up your residence in the well again, until to-night? I know it must be
                     rather an unpleasant spot for a soldier's quarters, but life, and for the
                        good cause, is something."
                  "I, Miss Mary? bless your happy face!—yes. I've slept in the woods many a
                     night, and it would be a shame to Ki Lane, of Washington's Guards, if he
                     couldn't stand sentinel a few hours in a dry well."
                  "Washington's Guards! What do you mean, Ki?"
                  "Oh, Mary Manners!—Miss Manners, I mean—I forgot you ain't the little girl I
                     used to carry about any more," said Ki, with childish simplicity: "why, I'm not
                     a Sergeant any longer. Some of those who saw me on the Hill, at the fight,
                     represented to the General that I fought pretty well, though I don't recollect
                     that I did any better than the rest: so you see, Miss Manners, I was made
                     Ensign, had an epaulette stuck on my shoulder, and appointed to command the
                     guard of Washington—thirty men always to be about him. That's something for a
                     Yankee lad like me, ain't it, Mary—I mean Miss Manners?"
                  "Speak no word like Miss, now, Ki. Call me Mary, as you did in old
                     times: it sounds of home and sweet Oakdale. So Washington has already
                     recognized your services. Brave Ki, I heard of your exploit in carrying off the
                     flag from the field, not only from Harry, but from Major Small and other
                     British officers, who spoke of it as a feat of singular daring."
                  "Did they, Mary? Well that is something, to hear good spoken of
                     one's self by one's enemies. But, my dear young lady, our Washington is yet to
                     lead us to victory and triumph. You must know him: you shall, too, if ever you
                     set foot in the American camp. He is, indeed, a great man."
                  "I shall see him, I trust, Ki; but when, I know not. Young as I am—a mere
                     girl—I felt my blood thrill with delight when I read the proclamation he issued
                     on taking command of the American forces in the camp at Cambridge. My father is
                     devoted to the king—I am equally devoted to the cause of my native land.
                     Nightly do I pray to God, on bended knee, for His blessing on the cause of
                     liberty and right. That it will be successful, after years of toil and
                     bloodshed, I cannot doubt. Let us be true then, one and all—for, though here,
                     in the camp of the Britains, my heart is for my country and my
                        home."
                  Ki felt astonished, abashed at his own simple patriotism, high as others might
                     deem it, before the words that dropped from the lips of the beautiful girl in
                     whose presence he stood. Her form seemed dilated; her eyes gleamed with new
                     lustre, and she looked like a young goddess of liberty that had descended to
                     bless the NEW NATION just rising into existence, whose infant struggles were
                     awakening the sensations of a world.
                  "God bless you Mary!" was all that Ki could say, and his giant figure throbbed
                     with all the emotions of a child, as the hot tears fell thick and fast from his
                     eyes.
                  "Enough of this, Ki," she said, in a calmer mood; "descend to your
                     hiding-place. As soon as the clock strikes ten at night I will be with you.
                     Remain until then, and a plan shall be arranged for your release. The hour
                     promised me is almost up."
                  Ki, saying but two words—"Fear not," descended into his subterranean retreat.
                     Miss Manner left the summer house, and soon all was still. It may be as well to
                     remark, that by this time the day had worn somewhat into the later hours of the
                     afternoon; but, for all that, Ki had a long stay before him.
                  There is an old story in one of the Arab works, of a man who descended into a
                     well where he slept, under the influence of a genii, two hundred years. Whether Ki had ever read this legend we
                     know not, but certain it is that, leaning his back against the well, (it was
                     too confined for him to double up or lie down,) he did fall asleep. How long it
                     continued he knew not, but he was suddenly aroused to the fact that he had been
                     asleep, by hearing a footstep over his place of safety.
                  He raised himself by the stones which projected from the sides of the well,
                     placed his ear against the platform and listened. The steps were entirely to
                     heavy for Miss Manners. His hearing was soon satisfied when he recognized the
                     voice of Watkins, Major Adair's servant.
                  "I tell you sergeant, the d—d spy is somewhere concealed about this place. The
                     sentries have been doubled and not a soul has left by the way of the stable
                     passage, or the front of the mansion but has been noted. He was
                     not among them. A hundred guineas will be something in our pockets for a spy,
                     besides my master Major Adair offers fifty more for vengeance."
                  "Well, what shall we do, Watkins?" said the Corporal, in
                     reply.
                  "Go out by the stable-way, and bring from our regiment six men. The Major has
                     given the orders. We will then search this place. I will keep watch until your
                     return; think, Corporal, a hundred and fifty guineas."
                  "Give me the password then by the way of the stable. The sentries are not of
                     our regiment."
                  "Right," replied Watkins. "Minden"—you will pass without being questioned on
                     giving that word. I shall expect you back in ten minutes at the most;
                     everything depends on time."
                  The Corporal immediately left.
                  "So, so," thought Ki, "there is a chance at last. I'll try your bacon,
                        Mister Watkins, when I get out of this well—depend on that. The
                     pass word Minden,—good—all is right."
                  In the course of two or three minutes, Ki heard Watkins leave the summer house
                     and go into the garden. He at once raised the platform, and drew himself up
                     into the summer house. The moon had risen, and the light gleamed through the
                     door. Ki kept himself in the shade; he knew not whether the hour had passed
                     that Mary had given as the signal for her re-appearance. Suddenly, a form
                     darkened the doorway—it was the figure of Watkins. In an instant the wretch was
                     caught by the throat by Ki, and his iron grasp prevented the least sign of
                     alarm.
                  
                  "Villain," said Ki, "if I did not think it wrong to rid the world of one so
                     unprepared, I'd strangle you at once. Make the least struggle, and I'll twist
                     your neck as I would a chicken. Be quiet."
                  He proceeded deliberately to tie a handkerchief over the mouth of Watkins to
                     prevent alarm. But there was no fear; the miscreant knew he was but an infant
                     in the grasp of Ki. This done, he tied his hands together—held him over the
                     well—dropped him to the bottom, and coolly replaced the platform.—"There," said
                     Ki, "they say 'truth is found at the bottom of a well,' but, whoever picks
                        you out, will find the proverb a lie. Now for my
                     escape." As he turned to go towards the stable and secure his retreat, a voice
                     murmured softly,
                  "Ki, hist!"
                  He turned towards the door of the summerhouse, and beheld MARY MANNERS
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  BURNHAM AN AID-DE-CAMP OF WASHINGTON.
                  Our chapter opens in the private rooms of Washington in his quarters at
                     Cambridge. The great man himself was seated at a table, busily writing, and
                     near him, similarly employed, was Joseph Reed, of Pennsylvania, afterwards
                     General Reed, the chief of hi staff, and two aid-de-camps. Washington's
                     correspondence, even at this early period, the morning, it may be said, of the
                     eight years' war, was heavy indeed.
                  Besides the arrangement of the army, at that time little more than a half
                     military mob, which the Commander-in-Chief was assiduously bringing into some
                     order, his official correspondence with Congress and the Governors of the
                     different States was exceedingly irksome. Perhaps there never was a more
                     industrious man than Washington. The records of his life, as published by
                     Sparks, show this. Nothing escaped his attention, and his military family had
                     to be equally observing and industrious.
                  An orderly entered the room and proceeded directly to the General, where he
                     stood motionless. Washington looked up at him, and then continued his writing.
                     The despatch—for it was a letter to the President of Congress—was not finished
                     for a quarter of an hour. The orderly knew he was not to speak until spoken to.
                     The letter was signed and handed to one of the aids to copy, and then the
                     General spoke: "Now, Sir, your communication."
                  "Captain Burnham and Captain Fairfax are awaiting your orders without,
                     Sir."
                  "Show the young gentlemen in."
                  Burnham and Fairfax entered, and were received with that parental cordiality
                     and dignity for which Washington was so famous.
                  "I have sent for you, young gentlemen, for the purpose of asking which of you
                     is willing to leave the line of the army, and accept the situation of aid-de
                     camp to my family. Congress has given me permission to appoint another, and I
                     know that either of you are capable in every way of fulfilling the duties. May
                     I ask the favor of one of you to accept the appointment?"
                  The office of aid to the Commander-in-Chief was at that time eagerly sought
                     after as an appointment of high trust and honor. Every young officer was
                     anxious to obtain the distinction, and Fairfax and Burnham were alike taken by
                     surprise. "I would observe" continued Washington "that the appointment is no
                     sinecure. I mingle myself in no gaieties, and my aids are necessarily excluded
                     from many enjoyments by the multiplicity of duties which they have to perform.
                     The present state of our country is such that he who gives his services to her,
                     should do so with his whole heart and soul—without this we can never succeed
                     against the mighty power with whom we are contending. We must all put forth our
                     strongest energies now, for if we fail in the outset, the future will be gloomy
                     indeed."
                  "Your excellency does us honor," said Fairfax, "Captain Burnham, my friend, is
                     the person above all others best suited for so honorable an appointment."
                  Burnham was completely taken by surprise by this act of magnanimity on the part
                     of Fairfax. Not, but that he knew his friend was the soul of honor, and that he
                     would willingly give up every thing in regard to himself, but that he should
                     thus as it were surrender his own chance for promotion at this peculiar time
                     was strange.
                  "Pardon me, General," said Burnham, "on expressing my opinion of this impulse
                     of my friend Fairfax. Your Excellency of course knows nothing of our collegiate
                     attachment. He has in this instance forgot himself, by carrying that friendship
                     too far. It is true, nothing could give me greater pleasure than the acceptance
                     Sir, of your offer to be one of your aid-de-camps. My father although
                     personally unacquainted with you Sir, has often related to me, your great
                     exertions in the campaign in the Monongahelas, in the war of '56. I decline the
                     favor to my friend Fairfax from your own colony Sir."
                  "Captain Burnham," replied Washington, a smile arising upon his usually grave
                     features, "you are appointed aid-de-camp, with the brevet rank of Major, from
                     this date. I understand nothing of this peculiar friendship between yourself
                     and Fairfax, to the extent carried out; we are all friends to our country. I
                     require one of you, and the decision is now made. Capt. Fairfax, you will
                     remain here until I return; five minutes will be the utmost limit of my
                     absence. Major Burnham, this way, sir."
                  Washington and Burnham left the room, though the latter cast a look at Fairfax,
                     which, if not an angry one, had at least something reproachful in its
                     glance.
                  The Commander-in-Chief and Burnham reached the Bed-chamber of the former. A
                     writing-desk occupied one corner of the apartment. Washington unlocked it, took
                     out a bundle of letters, from which he selected five and handed them to
                     Burnham, with some remarks of this kind:—
                  "I give you these letters to answer, with certain memoranda which I have made
                     upon the back of each, where you will find a key to the whole. These letters
                     are so far private that, with the exception of my Chief Secretary, Colonel
                     Reed, yourself, and those to whom the answers are to be addressed, none can
                     answer for their contents. I am now going to review our troops, and my absence
                     will probably continue two hours. Be so good as to make the answers for my
                     signature, with copies, to be ready at my return. Until that period, good day."
                     Washington left the room.
                  "A rather summary appointment," thought Burnham, when he was left alone. "What
                     can be the meaning of Washington's conduct? I am sure I had no thoughts of
                     being put on the staff, honorable as the appointment is.—One thing is certain,
                     I can leave when I please—in the mean time, now for work. Really, something of
                     confidence is shown in making me the repository of state and camp secrets."
                  The letters which Burnham had to reply to were all of extraordinary importance.
                     Private communications from Congress, requiring speedy answers, similar letters
                     from the Governors of States or Colonies, all of the greatest privacy, and some
                     confidential memoranda, in regard to the situation of the British forces in
                     Boston.
                  The latter communications were written in a hand beautiful, and evidently from
                     a pen handled by a woman. They seemed to Burnham familiar in regard to
                     chirography, and at first he was somewhat puzzled to account for the
                     resemblance. A light broke at once upon him, the handwriting was that of Mary
                     Manners.
                  It is hard to tell the reason, but Harry Burnham's pen flew with double
                     swiftness in answering the correspondence of the Commander-in-Chief. To his own
                     utter astonishment the replies were finished and the copies made sometime
                     before the two hours' absence of Washington were ended.
                  It may be asked, did not Burnham, in all this while, inquire for his old
                     companion Ki? He had done so, and the only information he could gather was that
                     he had been sent out of camp on special duty, the very morning he reached it.
                     As to where he had gone, how he had gone, or for what purpose, he could not
                     ascertain. He was away, and that was all he knew.
                  Whilst sitting in a reverie, reflecting upon his sudden appointment as
                     aid-de-camp, Washington entered. His presence at once recalled
                     Burnham to himself, though his own thoughts were far away from the place which
                     he then occupied.
                  "Good, young gentleman, very good," said the Commander-in-Chief, as he read the
                     letters separately, and attached his signature to each. "I have a long time
                     desired one who understood me so well, in this particular mark of my
                     correspondence. I trust you will long be a member of my military family."
                  "I can only return my thanks to your Excellency for this manifestation of your
                     esteem, in granting me so honorable an appointment as your aid. But, sir, I
                     think Captain Fairfax should not have thrown himself out of so fair an
                     opportunity for advancement in my favor, without consulting me."
                  "My young friend," said Washington, with a benignant smile, "it was
                        my wish that the appointment should be as it is. Your friend
                     Fairfax is the soul of honor, and he would have declined, rather than at this
                     time a native of any section of our common country than your own should have
                     received the appointment. For you he would sacrifice his life, and he well
                     knows you would do the same for him. Forget these things—we are all acting in
                     the cause of our native land."
                  Burnham remained silent—he could say nothing in reply. The noble nature of
                     Fairfax had again exhibited itself in favor of his friend. A nature truly
                     noble.
                  "I have now," said Washington, "no further duties for you until to-morrow, at
                     ten. If by that time you could get your baggage to headquarters, and become
                     installed as one of my family, it would please me. My correspondence is
                     continually pressing, and I desire to get it as speedily in the way of decrease
                     as possible. I shall give you charge of that work which relates chiefly to the
                     most secret portion of my correspondence."
                  Burnham lingered for a moment, as if wishing to make an inquiry, and then
                     addressed the Commander-in-Chief:—
                  "May I ask your Excellency if you are acquainted with this
                     correspondent?" And he pointed to the letter, the handwriting of which bore so
                     great a resemblance to that of Mary Manners.
                  "I am not," answered Washington, "but this much I can say, that the female who
                     has given me the information in those letters, deserves high praise. Never, in
                     a single case, have I found the information wrong. Not a movement takes place
                     in Boston, but I am informed of it."
                  "Good day, your Excellency," said Burnham, when leaving the room: "if I might
                     allow my heart to give a guess as to the author, she is one of the most
                     faithful of her sex; one whose every wish is for her country. I shall be
                     certain to return by the hour mentioned by you, sir, to-morrow."
                  And he took his leave.
                  Burnham, that night, met Fairfax. At first he felt a little inclined to be
                     angry at the manner in which his friend had placed him on Washington's staff. A
                     simple explanation, however, from Fairfax, as to the causes, made all
                     right.
                  The explanation was this. The Commander-in-Chief had obtained permission from
                     Congress to add another officer to his staff. He wished one well acquainted
                     with the manners and habits of the New England people. Virginia had already
                     received three high appointments, the new member of the staff must come
                     elsewhere. He was already overrun with applications, and he chose this method
                     of securing Burnham's appointment, of whose qualifications he had secured high
                     proof.
                  A week passed away, but no Ki made his
                     appearance. To Burnham the mystery of his absence was unknown, for Washington
                     had given him no information as to the duty on which he had been sent. The
                     Commander-in-Chief, however, had received certain communications that announced
                     the safety of his agent in Boston, together with other matters.
                  About the tenth day after Burnham had been appointed to the staff, and whilst
                     busily engaged in drawing up some dispatches, he was suddenly aroused by the
                     entrance of Washington, with a packet in his hand, which, from his frequent
                     examination thereof, appeared to be of importance.
                  "Major Burnham, can you leave in an hour's time for Philadelphia, with
                     dispatches for Congress?"
                  "This moment, sir, if your Excellency wishes it," was his instantaneous
                     reply.
                  "Not required so quick as that," was the reply of Washington, "but as soon as
                     possible, say an hour's time. I have here important dispatches in regard to
                     certain movements of the enemy in Boston. I do not wish to send them by the
                     ordinary express, and I wish you to go for another reason. I have some verbal
                     communications for that body, which I do not wish to commit to paper. I will
                     now mention them, that they may be impressed upon your memory to commit to the
                     ear of Mr. Hancock, the President."
                  General Washington then proceeded to relate to Burnham, the particular verbal
                     communications which he wished made. They were of a general nature, but highly
                     important in regard to the good cause, many of them of such a kind as could
                     not, with safety, be put upon paper. He then gave Burnham the package of
                     dispatches to be delivered to Mr. Hancock, and bade him a good journey and a
                     quick return.
                  As Burnham was taking his leave of Fairfax, and had just shaken hands with him
                     prior to his mounting on horseback, Evans, the steward of the
                     Commander-in-Chief, addressed him, in a seemingly careless way, as to the route
                     he intended to pursue.
                  "I shall ride on horseback as far as Providence," was the reply of Burnham,
                     "and, if there should be a favorable wind, take a vessel and proceed through
                     the Sound to New York, and from thence to Philadelphia, by the first boat. Good
                     bye, all."
                  He waved his hand, and putting spurs to his horse, was soon out of sight.
                  Half an hour afterwards, on the outskirts of the camp, another personage might
                     have been seen mounted on horseback, and pursuing the same route taken by
                     Burnham. He was an ill-looking fellow, dressed in the garb of a countryman,
                     with a thick overcoat, which, as it blew aside, discovered in his belt a pair
                     of pistols. One person bade him good bye as he rode off, that man was Evans.
                     What the horseman did will be related in the next chapter.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  Burnham pursued his journey with all practicable haste. It was late in the
                     morning when he started from the camp at Cambridge, and he trusted that he
                     might be able to reach Providence with haste by night.
                  He went on his route rapidly, stopping only when he thought his faithful
                     four-footed beast required watering, for he had many miles before him in his
                     long journey to Philadelphia. After he had gone the first thirty miles, he
                     began to feel tired himself, and he stopped at what appeared to be a fair inn,
                     on the road, for the purpose of giving a little food to the stomach of the
                     biped as well as the quadruped.
                  The inn at which Burnham stopped was rather out of the regular road—one to
                     which he had been recommended by an officer of the troops from his colony.
                  Burnham ordered his supper with all haste, not forgetting that the beast he
                     rode was equally desirous of its meal. Whilst busily engaged masticating the
                     wing of a broiled chicken, another personage, a fellow traveller to
                        be, apparently, made his appearance.
                  "Good day, sir," said the new comer.
                  "Good day, sir, in return," was the reply of Burnham, as he glanced at the new
                     visitor from head to foot.
                  "I understand you are riding towards Philadelphia: so am I," was the strange
                     rejoinder of the new comer. "From the army before Boston, I suppose?"
                  "Really, sir," said Burnham, in reply, "I do not understand the object of your
                     enquiries. You ask me if I am from the army before Boston? Suppose I am,
                     sir?"
                  "Simply this, my friend, that you should not get in a passion. I claim to be
                     equally a patriot with yourself, and will do anything to help the success of
                     the rebel cause, as it is called, though I am, in principle, a
                     tory."
                  As he turned away, he said to himself, "I'll get from this fellow all I want,
                     yet. What a parcel of rouges are these officers from the rebel camp, and
                     bearing their commissions of gentlemen!"
                  "Sir," said Burnham, eyeing the man attentively, "suppose you take supper with
                     me; I am just eating mine."
                  "With all my heart," was the reply. "I never see any eating going on but I hope
                     to become one of the party. I do really think, my kind friend, that if it was
                     not for this eating and drinking, which belongs to all, the colonies, which we
                     are now busily fighting for, or against, would not be worth the trouble. What
                     think you?"
                  "I'm perfectly indifferent about the matter," was the reply of Burnham, for he
                     thought he recognized in the countenance of the man who questioned him, the
                     face of one he had known before, when a prisoner; but he could not tell for a
                     certainty."
                  "Yes, I am perfectly indifferent about the matter. Kings, lords, and commons
                     must rule—stamp acts and taxes follow, of course. What's the use of endeavoring
                     to fight against the troops of his majesty? The people of the colonies are
                     mad—stark mad—in so doing."
                  "Very true, my good friend—very true; but here is the supper we
                     ordered."
                  "I am not aware," said Burnham, looking up angrily, "that we
                     ordered the supper. I did; but you I know nothing
                     about."
                  "Beg pardon, beg pardon—I forgot that you were postman and bearer of
                     Washington's correspondence to the vagabonds at Philadelphia. I should have
                     picked my company."
                  Burnham lifted a small riding-whip which he carried, and struck the man
                     directly across the face. The fellow drew a pistol at once and levelled it at
                     Burnham, but repeated blows from the whip caused him to vary his aim, and,
                     instead of hitting where he intended, the ball passed through the window,
                     striking a traveller's horse, who happened to be passing, which brought the
                     animal at once to his knees.
                  The landlord, alarmed by the explosion, rushed into the room. The horseman,
                     seeing the mischief he had occasioned, and stung by the repeated blows from the
                     whip of Burnham, dashed by the host, and, mounting his horse, which stood ready
                     bridled and saddled, made his escape. Indeed, his flight was so rapid, that the
                     parties hardly had time to wonder at his sudden disappearance.
                  The individual sufferer was loud in his outcries. His horse had been shot
                     directly through the head, and died in a few moments from the effects of the
                     ball. To whom was he to look for the payment of his horse?—a horse which he
                     valued, he said, at two hundred Spanish dollars; for he was then taking him to
                     the American camp to sell at that place.
                  "Pursue the rascal at once!" said the landlord—" I'm a squire, and I'll commit
                     him."
                  "Good advice, indeed," replied the man—"how am I to get a horse, I should like
                     to know, to follow the rogue."
                  "I'll lend you my nag Jehu," said the landlord; "he'll go a mile in three
                     minutes without the lash. Arrest the rogue, for I'm a squire, and I should like
                     to sentence the chap to a cool hundred lashes at the whipping post, away there.
                     Isn't he a beauty of a nag?"
                  The animal was really a showy beast as was to be seen, when the ostler, or
                     rather stable-boy-of-all-work, brought him up to the stranger. Burnham was
                     somewhat surprised at the readiness of the landlord in lending so fine a horse
                     to a man he appeared not to know, merely for the purpose of arresting a
                     scoundrel, and was about to express his astonishment, when the fellow; with the
                     utmost coolness, said to the landlord—
                  "Good day, Squire; I'll pursue that chap to the end of the world, but I'll
                     catch him.—So, perhaps it may be some time afore I get back. Any how, I'll take
                     care of this 'ere nag, if its millenium time again that comes about."
                  Without waiting for an answer, the fellow galloped off as quickly as possible.
                     Burnham could not refrain from a hearty laugh at the simplicity of the landlord
                     and squire; for he was certain the horseman was a sharper.
                  The squire looked first to the right, and then to the left, as if he was "done
                     for"—gave a long whistle, and then rushed over to the dead horse, seizing a
                     couple of saddlebags, the contents of which he commenced speedily examining.
                     Burnham was drawn by curiosity into similar movements.
                  Whether the man, in his anxiety to mount the horse which had been tended him to
                     pursue the rogue, or for other reasons, had forgot to remove the saddle bags,
                     was a matter of doubt. The examination, however, seemed to show that he could
                     not have been aware of their contents. A very handsome uniform coat of a
                     British officer was first drawn forth, the buttons of which indicated that it
                     belonged to an officer of the 5th regt.; a pair of very handsome pistols, with
                     balls, flask, containing powder, &c., also constituted part of the
                     contents. But a packet of letters most interested Burnham.
                  The correspondence appeared to be between General Gage and the home government.
                     Letters to Lord North, Lord George Germaine, and others of the administration,
                     giving full details of the war so far, and future plans of the
                     Commander-in-Chief in Boston. It was evident that these dispatches were stolen,
                     for what could they be intended for so far out of Boston? Was the bearer
                     murdered? thought Burnham. Perhaps some venturous officer in the British
                     service had volunteered to carry them to New York, where vessels occasionally
                     left for London, in spite of the difficulties.
                  The latter seemed to Burnham the most plausible reasoning; then where was the
                     officer? Had he been murdered? What did it mean? Was he not as
                     much in the power of such ruffians as the bearer of these despatches was, on
                     whom it was evident foul play had somewhere taken place?
                  As these thoughts thronged through the mind of Burnham, he felt a little
                     uneasy, and he determined to push on, come what would. The landlord he knew to
                     be faithful, because he had been recommended to him as one of those patriots
                     whose hearts were full of the "good cause," one that could be trusted in every
                     particular.
                  "These papers are of importance," said Burnham, "and should be sent to the
                     Commander-in-Chief at once. As for myself, I have other duties to perform—my
                     way lies westward. Can these packages be despatched to head-quarters at
                     Cambridge to-night, landlord?"
                  "Sartainly, sir, sartainly, though I'm sorry my swift nag has been lent to that
                     scoundrel, for I'm sartain he is a scoundrel. He's been a robbing, sir, depend
                     on't. Them saddle-bags belonged to some officer in the British army, and the
                     fellow who's got my horse is a regular foot-pad."
                  "There is very little-doubt of that," replied Burnham. "I am somewhat anxious
                     to push on myself, late as it is, after getting some refreshment."
                  "But you don't mean to go on so late in the day as this?" enquired the landlord, with some
                     astonishment
                  "Yes, the instant I have taken a little of something to eat. Ah! here is the
                     refreshment now."
                  A black fellow had entered with some cold meats, which he placed before the
                     hungry Continental Captain.
                  A short time sufficed to satisfy Burnham's hunger, and his anxiety to reach
                     Providence before the night had fully set in made him order his faithful beast
                     to the door. The landlord remonstrated against his leaving till morning, but
                     all was in vain — Burnham was determined to leave late as it was. When a man is
                     determined on an undertaking, it is useless to argue with him; the more
                     pressing dangers are set forth, the more eager is he generally to run the
                     risk.
                  Waving his hand to the landlord, Burnham rode off at a rapid pace. He did not
                     fail to examine the priming of his pistols, look at the flints and pass his
                     fingers over their edges."
                  "I fear no three men that may attack me," he said to himself."
                  The road which he pursued was not a very cheerful one. As night began to fall,
                     every thing around appeared gloomy in the extreme. There was no chance of
                     escape whatever if he was attacked, for never was there a better opportunity
                     for an ambush. Still Burnham pushed on; his desire was to reach Providence; in
                     that town he knew where to seek shelter and friends. As he advanced, the road
                     grew still more gloomy. A swamp was passed over, and just as he reached the
                     outer edge, 
                        whe
                        where
                      was an open space, he was accosted by a horseman, who rode directly
                     from the bushes.
                  "Good evening, friend; you ride late to-night," was the first remark that
                     Burnham heard.
                  "Yes, somewhat: how far is the distance to Providence?" answered Burnham, at
                     the same time sheering his horse so as to leave a space between himself and the
                     stranger who accosted him.
                  "To Providence?—well, some ten or twelve miles, I should reckon; but that beast
                     of your's looks as if he might carry you ten times that distance, if you
                     choose." As he said this, he made a move nearer to Burnham.
                  "Yes, I have no fault to find with my horse," was the answer of Burnham, and he
                     still kept away from the acquaintance of one who seemed too anxious to show his
                     friendship.
                  For some ten minutes the two rode side by side, scarcely exchanging a word; but
                     Burnham kept his eye steadily fixed upon the horseman who rode so near him.
                  There are times when the bravest feel a little strange. Burnham's thoughts were
                     somewhat of that kind. Who was the man that rode beside him? Not a friend,
                     surely, or he would have avowed himself such.—Could he have an inkling of the
                     despatches he carried? If so, thought Burnham, he will find that
                        two will have something to say about it.
                  Riding on a mile further, two roads presented themselves. One pursued nearly a
                     direct route across a level piece of ground, whilst the other ranged along the
                     banks of a stream whose waters glistened beneath the moon, then just
                     rising.
                  "Now, then," thought Burnham, "I wonder which road my companion intends
                     pursuing? I do not like his actions, and, to shake him off, shall take the
                     river road, although it makes my journey a few miles longer. Good night,
                     friend," he said, aloud, "my road lies this way, a pleasant journey to
                     you."
                  "Don't be so anxious to part company, my young friend," was the instant reply.
                     "You are taking the very route I intended to follow myself. These are troublous
                     times, and we can protect each other, you know."
                  "I do not know," was the instant response of Burnham, "that danger is to be
                     anticipated in this part of the country. The people are proverbial for their
                     kindness, and it must be a strong rogue who meditates the least harm to
                     travellers hereabouts."
                  "Strong rogues, as you call them, are the very ones to dread, particularly when
                     one has important dispatches about him. You understand me young
                     man."
                  And he pushed his horse nearer to Burnham.
                  The latter involuntarily put one hand upon the pistols which he wore concealed
                     under his military cloak, and eyed his companion with double watchfulness. The
                     road skirted a river, with high, precipitous banks. A whistle, evidently an
                     imitation of the whip-poor-will, was heard close by, and, at the same instant,
                     the stranger seized the head of Burnham's horse, backing him towards the
                     riverside, exclaiming, at the same time:—
                  "Now, Captain Burnham, surrender those dispatches for Congress, peaceably, if
                     you would save your life. Ho! Will, Tom, there!"
                  And two men rushed out from the thicket.
                  Quick as thought, Burnham drew a pistol, and aimed deliberately at the man on
                     horseback, who fell, with a deep groan, as the ball entered his body. The two
                     companions of the rogue had by this time reached the side of Burnham, and
                     pulled him from his horse. A desperate struggle now ensued, on the edge of the
                     cliff that overlooked the river. By some means the equilibrium of the
                     combatants was lost, and down the precipice the three went, with a crashing
                     noise. There rose up one wild shriek, as of death-agony, which startled the
                     sleeping birds in the thicket, so that they flew frightened away,—then all was
                     still!
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                  We must now return to the fifteenth chapter, where we left Ki on the point of
                     making his escape from the summer-house just as Miss Manners entered. As she
                     exclaimed, "Ki, hist!" he pointed with his finger to the floor which laid over
                     the well. She understood him perfectly, and beckoned him out into the shady
                     part of the garden, where he related what he had done with Watkins the Major's
                     servant, and that the Sergeant had gone out for a file of men, and would return
                     in a few moments.
                  "Then you have no time to lose, Ki. I shall detain you but a moment, but how
                     are you to escape out of the city, and get across the river to the camp?"
                  "There has been a boat waiting for me in a retired place for some hours,
                     containing a single rower, who passes for a loyalist, though he is as good a
                     friend to the country as either of us."
                  "Here is a package for the Commander-in-Chief, General Washington. It contains
                     some matters that will be of importance to him in his future movements. I hope
                     you know that if found upon you it may endanger your life, though it is written
                     in such a form as not to be immediately intelligible to those into whose hands
                     it may wrongfully fall. Here is a letter for Harry which I wish you to deliver
                     him at once. I hoped to have seen him personally, but he left us
                     as unexpectedly to himself as to me. Farewell, dear Ki! When we next meet, may
                     it be in happier times for us all." She seized his hand, and then darted away
                     towards the mansion. So quick was she gone that Ki had no chance to make the
                     least reply, and he dare not call. He felt something heavy in his hand—it was a
                     purse of gold! She knew the poverty of her countrymen.
                  Entering the summer house, Ki groped his way through the stable, and soon found
                     himself at the door which led into the alley, where a sentry was marching to
                     and fro. "Minden," said Ki, in a calm tone, and passed out unsuspected.
                  Passing along the alley way to the main street, he found himself full in the
                     glare of the moon, which shone directly over head, so that there was no shade
                     to conceal his tall figure as he went towards the river. He passed many
                     sentinels, who eyed him somewhat curiously, but met with no questions.
                  He had nearly reached the wharf where he expected to find a boat, when he met a
                     number of officers approaching him. It was too late for him to turn aside, and
                     he went boldly on, touching his hat in hopes that he should pass without
                     particular notice, observation, or question, but he was doomed to be
                     disappointed.
                  The first of the officers he recognized as Major Adair. Now, the Major had
                     never personally seen him, though he knew the Major, from the affair which
                     happened in the summer-house. Putting on a bold front, he was passing by, when
                     Adair spoke, looking at him from head to foot: "Stop, man! Who are you?"
                  "A townsman, on my way home."
                  "Do townsmen wear livery coats? By Heavens! you are the very man that put me to
                     so much trouble and confusion to-day at Dr. Manners'. Come, sir, you go to the
                     guardhouse, and have your spy covering stripped from that long rebel body of
                     yours."
                  It should be remembered that Ki still had on the livery coat which he had
                     assumed in the stable, at the request of Miss Manners, to avoid, as had been
                     then expected, detection, but which was now to bring him into trouble.
                  Ki's mind was made up in an instant. Without hesitation, he gave the Major, who
                     was extending his arm to seize him, a push that sent him rolling into the
                     kennel, and rushed down the street at full speed. The officers, Adair's
                     companions, had not time to interfere, the whole transaction having occurred so
                     suddenly. They, however, raised the cry of "Stop him! Stop the rebel rascal!"
                     which was heard by the sentries stationed on the route of Ki's flight. One or
                     two, who threw themselves in his way, were knocked down, in spite of their
                     muskets; but the clamor was too hot for him long to remain free. In fact, one
                     or two muskets had been discharged at him, and the drums began to beat all
                     through the garrison, arousing the citizens as well as the soldiers. Onward he
                     went, hoping to reach the river; but a body of soldiers, drawn up in line,
                     barred further progress in that direction, and he turned up a narrow street,
                     hotly pursued.
                  Behind him rang the hue and cry of men in eager pursuit. He observed the cellar
                     door of what appeared to be a large brewery partly open, and down he leapt,
                     pulling the door close after him. He could move no further; he was perfectly
                     exhausted, and he sat down on a cask to rest himself, amid the darkness. For
                     the space of half an hour he could hear his pursuers pass by, now alone and now
                     in numbers, hallooing and shouting, till finally all was still. "I am safe
                     then," he said, "for a time."
                  When his strength was somewhat recovered, he began to wonder in what place he
                     might be. There was a smell of beer and malt, and groping around in the
                     darkness, he felt several tiers of casks, apparently full. There was room for
                     concealment, but how long he could live there without food, or being
                     discovered, were puzzling questions.
                  As he placed his hand upon one of the casks it fell upon a tin cup, and,
                     stooping further, he felt a spiggot. To bring the cup to the spiggot was
                     mechanical, and he found, to his gratification and comfort, exhausted as he
                     was, that the contents of the cask were excellent beer. One or two cups revived
                     him much, and placed his mind in a better humor for thinking. "I will at least
                     try to get a little sleep, come what will," thought he. "I shall be none the
                     worse for it in the morning; but I must find the most secure place to do
                     so."
                  After a few minutes' careful search, he found a space between two back tiers of
                     casks, where he stretched himself at full length, determined to enjoy himself
                     as comfortably as he could until morning. It was not a great while before sleep
                     overpowered him, and he fell into a deep slumber.
                  He was awoke by the opening of the cellar doors, through which the daylight
                     streamed. He had slept without hindrance all night, and as quietly as if he had
                     been reposing at his home in Oakdale. The spot where he lay was in a back part
                     of the cellar, dim even with the light that fell through the only opening, the
                     doorway. A couple of men entered, apparently parently workmen, one of whom looked carefully
                     around the cellar. "All appears safe, Zach," said he, "although I did leave the
                     door without locking last night. I thought some of them rascally thieving red
                     coats might have got in, and if they had, there wouldn't have been every cask
                     full, I can tell ye."
                  "Hush, Dave," said the other in reply, "it won't do to speak so about the
                     sojers, if you and I do hate them; they'd clap us in the guard house as d—d
                     Yankee rebels. We ain't got any right to think now-a-days."
                  Well, I am a rebel, Zack, and hang them that don't like it. See how the troops
                     have carried on things have in Boston. Raised the price of provisions, set us
                     to starvin', and treated the townsmen like dogs. Ain't this our country, what
                     right have they in it?"
                  "I shan't argue it," said the other, "only it's best for us to keep still. But
                     come, it's time for us to see how the malt is working, or they'll carry it off
                     for horsefeed with the rest."
                  "Well, I won't grumble any more; to work let's go—lie there, dinner," he said,
                     as he placed a small basket on one of the casks, and both went out of the
                     cellar.
                  It may be supposed that Ki felt cheered by this conversation. It was apparent
                     he was among friends—that is, friends of the same way of thinking, and this was
                     every thing to him. He now began to be assured of safety, and that a plan might
                     be arranged by which he could eventually escape.
                  Most of the working class that were compelled to remain in Boston at the time
                     of the Revolution, hated the British soldiers intensely. Previous to the
                     breaking out of the war, conflicts between the town's people and the soldiery
                     were of frequent occurrence, and in many instances lives had been lost
                     particularly in the famous "Boston Massacre" of 1770. When the troops were
                     finally shut up in Boston, after the affairs of Lexington and Concord, this
                     feeling was renewed, but the working men had quietly to submit to their
                     oppressors. To this class belonged the two men at work in the brewery. It is a
                     fact, that history records no instance of the hard working people of a nation
                     ever selling their country. It is the rich leaders, the wealthy portion whose
                     very wealth gives them power to use for the most selfish interests, that always
                     betray their native land.
                  Some hours passed away, and Ki could perceive by the light which appeared
                     through the open cellar way, that the hour of noon was approaching. It must be
                     owned, that merely by the way of stretching himself, he had twice or thrice
                     found his way to the beer cask to taste its refreshing beverage, to him, on
                     this occasion, food as well as drink, and it may be as well acknowledged that
                     he had wistfully looked at the dinner basket of the workmen, but his conscience
                     would not allow him to deprive his fellow rebel of a meal.
                  Ki went back to his place of concealment, and soon after the two workmen
                     entered, and sat down on the casks to eat their dinner. This was soon over, and
                     each lighting his pipe entered into conversation.
                  "That was a complete kick up at the garrison last night," said the one whose
                     name was Zach.
                  "Yes, it was so. Did you hear what it was about?"
                  "I heard one of the sogers say this mornin' 'twas a rebel spy that had got
                     away, but they'd put sentinels so that he couldn't get out of town, and if
                     they'd cotched him he'd swing for it."
                  "Swing! replied Dave; "they'd better catch him first, that's what I say. Why,
                     the fellow was a perfect Samson. He knocked down a company, right and left—they
                     couldn't hold him at all. I hope he's got clear off afore this, if he ain't I'd
                     like to give him a helpin' hand, that I would."
                  "Why, you wouldn't run the risk to shelter him, would you? They'd hang us,
                     too."
                  "Yes, I would, if he stood here now."
                  "The spy is HERE, and demands that shelter."
                  Both started when they turned and beheld the tall figure of Ki, erect beside
                     them. Zach displayed a little trepidation, but Dave put forth his hand with a
                     hearty shake, and declared, come what would, he'd stand by him.
                  "Spoken like a man and a Yankee—and you?" said Ki, as he looked
                     Zach full in the face.
                  "Won't betray you," was the answer, for he had recovered himself.
                  "Not he," replied Dave. "Now tell us how you got here; nobody will trouble
                     us."
                  Ki then briefly related his escape; that finding the cellar door open, he made
                     his way in, and had thus far eluded discovery.
                  "There, Zach; warn't there a providence in my leaving the door open by mistake.
                     Something good has come of it. I 'spose you want to get over to camp."
                  "I do, as quick as possible."
                  "Well, you'll have to lie by 'til the thing is a little blown over. This will
                     be a good hidin' place for a day or two, and we'll see that you don't starve;
                     won't we, Zach? We're true blue to our side."
                  "We'll save you, depend on't," was the answer of his comrade."
                  It was arranged that for the present Ki should remain in the cellar of the 
                        bewery
                        brewery
                     , us the spot least likely to be suspected. The faithful laborers, as
                     they promised, daily brought him his provisions, and on the third night after,
                     he was taken without suspicion to the humble dwelling of Dave, where he was
                     placed in a comfortable upper room.
                  There was the barrack of a British regiment adjoining the dwelling, in the yard
                     of which the soldiers often walked, and their conversation was easily overheard
                     by Ki. Several days after he had been ensconced in his quarters, he heard a
                     voice which he thought he recognized. Screening himself, he looked down into
                     the barrack yard, and beheld Watkins with the same sergeant who was after him
                     in the summer-house. He listened anxiously to hear what might be said.
                  "If the last job failed, Sergeant, I've got one now that won't. You know Evans,
                     who pretended to desert from our regiment?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Well, he's the head servant of the Yankee General. Washington is going to send
                     some important 
                        despatchs
                        despatches
                      to the lousy Congress soon, by private post, so Evans writes me, and
                     I'm to waylay the fellow that carries 'em, and bring them over to Gage. It will
                     be a good hundred pounds in my pocket. I'm going over this very afternoon. The
                     sentries let me pass, thinkin' I'm one of their rebel crew. Aint it a good
                     thing?" Ki could hear no more, for they went to another portion of the
                     barrack.
                  That very night Ki made his escape in safety, aided by his two friends, and
                     reached the other shore, but at a distance too great to arrive at
                     head-quarters, until some two hours after Burnham had left with the dispatches,
                     as before related.
                  He delivered his packet in safety, and at once related to the General the
                     treachery of his servant Evans. The wretch was immediately arrested, and, on
                     being assured that his life would be spared if he told the truth, confessed his
                     treachery, with the most ample details. Five minutes afterwards, Ki and Frank
                     Fairfax were in the saddle, followed by half-a-dozen well-mounted dragoons, in
                     rapid pursuit of Burnham and the villains that followed him.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  A MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING—WATKINS DISCOVERED.
                  The Rev. Reginald Manners, D.D. the father of Mary Manners, though born in the
                     colony of Connecticut, was a most decided loyalist. His father was descended
                     from a younger branch of the Manners family—Dukes of Rutland,—and the Doctor
                     felt all the blood of a time-honored name rush through his veins
                     in the same loyal current that belonged to the head of his family.
                  Perhaps his education might have had much to do with this. When but sixteen, he
                     had been sent to England, and took his degree at that ancient university of
                     prejudices—Oxford. Associating there with the aristocratic scions of noble
                     families, it was not strange that he should adopt their feelings and habits A
                     visit to the Duke of Rutland, at Belvoir Castle, who claimed his consanguinity
                     after only two removes, and who greeted him with the title of "cousin," added
                     fuel to the aristocratic flame.
                  As early as 1765, when the stamp-act disturbances commenced, Dr. Manners, who
                     had been settled in the parsonage of Oakdale, took part in favor of that
                     measure, and defended it with all his might. The measure itself was so
                     unpopular, that, in spite of the kindly feelings which the people of Oakdale
                     held for the Doctor, they gradually became estranged from him and his church,
                     and in the early part of the spring of 1775, he saw what was coming, and, as
                     has been related, privately withdrew from his pastoral charge, and took refuge
                     in Boston.
                  His wife, who had died some ten years before, was a direct descendant of the
                     old Puritan Governor, William Leete.*
                      She was a woman of strong natural powers, and loved her native country
                     next to her God. Perhaps it was the training she had given her daughter Mary in
                     early life that led the latter to espouse, with heart and soul, the cause of
                     her countrymen at the commencement of the revolution.
                  
                     
                     *A life of William Leete, Governor of Connecticut during a portion of the
                        reign of Charles II., is much required. He was a sturdy Puritan, and at
                        the time a price was placed upon the heads of Goffe and Whalley (two of
                        the judges of King Charles I), he concealed them in the cellar of his
                        house at Guildford, Conn. The ruins of his mansion are yet pointed
                        out.
                  
                  It is in the mansion of Doctor Manners, at Boston, the morning after the escape
                     of Ki from the summer-house, that we must now place our readers. Breakfast was
                     over, but the Doctor sat playing with the spoon of his coffee-cup, now and then
                     glancing at his daughter, who presided at the head of the table. They had
                     breakfasted alone that morning, for the first time since Burnham had obtained
                     his exchange.
                  The servants had removed most of the breakfast things, yet the Doctor showed no
                     symptoms of leaving the table. Something was upon his mind, which he wanted to
                     express to his daughter. At length he gained courage, if that was what he
                     needed, and addressed her:
                  "Harry left us rather abruptly yesterday."
                  "Very," was the reply of Mary. "I had no opportunity to bid him good bye, as I
                     wished."
                  "I am sorry that he has taken sides with the rebels: I hoped for better things
                     of him. I loved him as if he had been my son."
                  "And I, as if he were my brother."
                  The latter word was pronounced with much emphasis.
                  "You love him like a brother, you say, Mary?"
                  "Yes, sir. No sister could love a brother more devotedly."
                  There was a pause for a moment.
                  "You must excuse your father, Mary," said the Doctor, drawing his chair closer,
                     "but have you really felt no nearer attachment than that of a brother towards
                     Harry Burnham, my daughter?"
                  "What stronger attachment can there be, father?"
                  "One much stronger. That which I felt for your mother, Mary. I may as well be
                     plain—love."
                  "I do love Harry Burnham, but as a sister, nothing more. Brought
                     up together when children, he is, and ever must be, dear to me."
                  "Your attachment is this, and no more?"
                  "Nothing more, sir."
                  "Did Harry never propose marriage to you?"
                  "I do not know that he ever had such a thought in his mind. But why these
                     questions, father?"
                  "A father, my dear girl, has reasons for questions, that his children do not
                        always understand. You are the tie
                     that binds me to the memory of your mother: but for you, I should be truly
                     alone. These are peculiar times, dear daughter, and I may be suddenly taken
                     away, leaving you, comparatively, a stranger among strangers. You need not
                     wonder, then, that my inquiries are directed towards your future welfare."
                  "Father," said Mary, rising with emotion, and throwing her arms about his neck
                     as she kissed his forehead, "do not talk in this manner. God forbid that we
                     should be separated. But if it is His will that we should, may the day be far
                     distant, and then may our separation be but short, for we must meet
                     hereafter!"
                  "Nay, daughter, dear, do not be agitated. We may as well reason now about what
                        must happen, as to talk of it at the moment of parting
                     eternally from the earth. I am getting to be an old man. Most of my property
                     has been confiscated for my remaining loyal to the king; and if I should die
                     suddenly, with the exception of the one hundred and fifty pound annually, left
                     you by your uncle, nothing would remain to you. My present income, you are
                     aware, depends upon the duration of my life. Life hangs upon a thread, and it
                     would be a bitter pang for me to leave you unprovided. A husband
                     would be a protector."
                  "A husband!"
                  "Yes a husband. I certainly do not regret now that you entertain no particular
                     estimation of Harry. Next to disobedience to God, I think rebellion against the
                     king the most blasphemous crime. Burnham has chosen sides, and raised his arm
                     against our common earthly master, George the Third. I have no further wishes
                     for Harry; he is a rebel against the Lord's annointed!"
                  "Harry, dear father, you should judge better of; with him it is as much a
                     matter of principle in the cause he has espoused, as with you for the side you
                     have chosen. Do not wish him him ill, I entreat you."
                  "I do not wish him ill. I hope that his eyes may be opened to the error of his
                     ways; that he may see the folly of this idle rebellion, and that he may learn
                     that disobedience to the king, under whose rule he was born, is neither more
                     nor less than disobedience to God. Even you are somewhat tinctured with this
                     feeling, I am sorry to say, Mary."
                  "True, dear father, I am, if loving my country is so to be considered Can you
                     think my feelings strange in this particular. To me, the love of country is
                     next to the love of God, of you, of all I hold dear. And, dear father, do not
                     call me a rebel, do not think less of me when I tell you that I wish Washington
                     and my countrymen in arms entire success."
                  This was rather bold talk, indeed, from a daughter to a father who had
                     expressed such opinions as the Doctor had. A gloomy smile passed over his
                     countenance as he looked her steadily in the face.
                  "These are idle thoughts and wishes, daughter; still I shall not attempt to
                     control them. A parcel of demagogues are now ruling the country by their
                     missives, issued under the 
                        authortty
                        authority
                      of a congress, as they call their assemblage now in session at
                     Philadelphia. A noose put round the neck of one or two of them will soon end
                     the matter. The forces which his Gracious Majesty is now preparing to send to
                     this country next campaign will soon accomplish this, and then the rebellion is
                     ended. But enough of this. Your cousin, Major Adair, has made to me a formal
                     declaration for your hand. Are your feelings favorably disposed towards the
                     Major? Answer me truly and frankly."
                  "You have always taught me to do so, dear father, from childhood, and I shall
                     do so now. Sooner than wed Major Adair, I would choose my grave, if I knew that
                     life depended upon such a marriage, and death depended its refusal Do not blame
                     me; I would do nothing to offend you—but such a marriage, oh! the thought is
                     horrible!"
                  "Enough," said the Doctor; "I shall say nothing further on the subject. I will
                     relate to Major Adair your refusal—and that is decisive."
                  "Thanks, dear father, thanks," and she again kissed him.
                  "I have now, Mary, something more to say to you, and I shall depend upon the
                     same frankness in your answer to my question. I shall not press you too far,
                     for you have just told me your feelings in regard to your country.
                        My opinions and hopes you know. Answer me the question frankly.
                     Who was concealed in the 
                        summer-honse
                        summer-house
                      last night?"
                  "Frankly, father, then, the man was Ki Lane."
                  "Ki Lane?" said the Doctor, looking anxiously and enquiringly at his
                     daughter.
                  "Even so."
                  "Do you know that you are leading me into danger."
                  "You into danger, dear father?"
                  "Yes; General Gage sent for me this morning early, and said that a spy, who had
                     been concealed in my house last night, escaped, after a desperate resistance in
                     the streets of the town. He even knocked down Major Adair and some other
                     officers. I do not wonder since you tell me it was our Oakdale giant. I
                     answered the general, that the presence of a spy in my family was a thing
                     unknown to me, and asked for proof."
                  "Did he furnish the proof?"
                  "No. He said that Watkins, Major Adair's servant, would furnish the proof."
                  "Did the Major's servant do so?"
                  "No, Mary, he was not to be found. He is missing."
                  An instant thought rushed through the brain of Miss Manners. Could it be
                     possible that Watkins was yet in the well, the place of Ki's concealment? She
                     almost smiled as the supposition rose to her mind.
                  "What has become of the Major's servant? To tell you the truth, dear father, I
                     verily believe him to be a rascal."
                  "Aye, what has become of him? He was known to be in our garden last night,
                     General Gage said to me—but now he is not to be found. Mary, Mary, I fear you
                     know more about the matter, than it is proper for me to know."
                  "It may be so, father. But this Watkins is your enemy. He is a base wretch, a
                     spy on the part of your nephew, my cousin, Major Adair. You say I am leading
                     you into danger. Perhaps I am leading you out of it, if you think that
                     dependance is to be placed upon such wretches as this servant of the
                     Major's."
                  "You must remember, my daughter, that no stain must rest upon my loyalty. If I
                     cannot control your opinions respecting this rebellion, let me at least advise
                     as to the policy of giving them to the world. You are young, and your sex
                     prevents much of that offence in the utterance of your sentiments, which from a
                     man would be treason. Let me entreat of you to give no countenance to any of
                     the rebels in their nefarious attempts to enter the town as spies. You not only
                     lead them into danger—the forfeiture of their lives, but you make ourselves
                     liable to arrest. This is a serious matter, Mary, and as such you should regard
                     it."
                  "Dear father, nothing can be more foreign to my acts or words than to bring you
                     into danger. It is enough for me to know that I give you offence, when the
                     cause will at once be stopped."
                  She was going on, when a servant man entered, with terror depicted on his
                     countenance, and spoke to Dr. Manners.
                  "Oh! sir, there is a terrible groaning about the summer-house, and we don't
                     know what to make of it. Won't you step out, sir?"
                  The Doctor rose at once, and, followed by his daughter, (she well knew the
                     cause,) went into the garden, and entered the summer-house. The groans, or
                     rather some half-smothered sounds, seemed to come from the depths of the earth,
                     and the servants, some three or four in number, were in great trepidation. To
                     remove the grass carpeting was the work of a moment, and the trap-door was
                     exposed to the astonished lookers-on. This was lifted up, and in a few moments
                     the body of the crest-fallen Watkins was drawn out of the dry well, covered
                     with cobwebs and dirt, looking (as he opened his mouth, from which he had
                     partly removed the bandage,) like a disinterred mummy galvanized into life.
                  There was a hearty laugh at his odd appearance, and the Doctor, despite of his
                     trial at gravity, was forced to join. Watkins, in the meantime, scowling from
                     one to the other, with the look of a demon.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XX.
                  RESCUE OF BURNHAM.
                  Although Burnham had left Cambridge some two hours before, Fairfax, Ki and
                     their party started in pursuit, yet the latter making due allowances for the
                     time and places he would stop at on his route, judged that they might overtake
                     him before the ruffians on his track had time to intercept him or do him
                     injury.
                  They rode on at full speed for some time, and the night finally set in whilst
                     they were yet an hour's ride from the inn where Burnham had taken supper.
                     Several times they inquired on the route if a horseman had preceded them, and
                     once they obtained such a description of Burnham's person at a farmhouse by the
                     road-side, that they were confident that they were on the right track. About a
                     mile from the inn they met a horseman, who proved to be the landlord himself on
                     a borrowed horse, bound for Cambridge, with the dispatches that had been found
                     in the saddle-bags of the man who rode off from the inn as before related.
                  On hearing the landlord's story, with an account of the papers he bore about
                     him, Fairfax immediately directed two of the dragoons as a guard to the
                     landlord, to escort him to Cambridge, and he pursued his way with Ki and the
                     remainder of the party. They did not stop at the inn, having gained all the
                     particulars they wanted of the landlord, but pushed on at the utmost speed of
                     their horses.
                  On arriving where the roads branched off, the party were somewhat at fault
                     which one to take, but Ki, dismounting, examined closely the fresh tracks of
                     two horses, and observed that their riders had taken the river-road, down which
                     they immediately galloped. The moon was bright, and they could see some
                     distance along the road
                  "We cannot be far behind now, Captain," said Ki, "the tracks are fresh, for the
                     dew has not moistened the broken ground, and if Harry is safe I doubt whether
                     he is a mile before us."
                  "I hope he may be safe, Ki; but this is a wild-looking place around us, and
                     just the spot for villains to waylay a peaceful traveller. Hark!"
                  And Fairfax reined up his horse, as a piercing shriek rang through the night
                     air.
                  "Good God! we are too late," said Ki,—"dash on, dash on!"
                  Forward went the party till they came to the spot where a human body lay
                     stretched across the road, and the swift retreating sounds of a horse's hoof
                     was heard while the neigh of the frightened animal echoed through the
                     woods.
                  "There is no rider on that horse, I know by his frightened yell!" exclaimed Ki,
                     and the whole party sprang from their horses, giving the reins of their horses
                     to a dragoon, as they proceeded to examine the dead man—for he was dead. A pool
                     of blood had gathered around him, and his limbs were yet warm, though the vital
                     spark itself had left the frame forever.
                  Lifting his body to the light, each of the party scanned his face attentively,
                     which looked ghastly horrid in the moonlight, but not one recollected of ever
                     having seen it before. The dress was half way between the garb of a countryman
                     and a soldier, the coat being that of the former, and the buff breeches and
                     black spatterdashes denoting the latter.
                  "This man will never trouble fellow mortal again, that is certain," said Ki,
                     dropping the body upon the bank. "It was a sure and sudden shot that he got,
                     for he has not had time even to use
                     his pistols. See, they are yet primed."
                  And Ki took the pistols from the man's belt, and examined the pans.
                  "We must search around," answered Fairfax. "Look, there has been a furious
                     struggle here: see these footsteps on the bank. They have gone down the
                     thicket, and over this rocky spot into the river. Follow me, Ki, and one of you
                     men. The other two keep watch on the road."
                  The three cautiously descended the woody yet rocky bank or precipice that
                     skirted the river. Thicket of scrub wood and hemlock impeded their progress,
                     but about thirty feet from the road-side, the moonbeams glittered on the barrel
                     of a pistol, and a few feet further a man was seen reclining against a tree
                     which had evidently stopped his progress towards the river. Fairfax knelt down
                     at once, and a glance sufficed to show him the features of his friend
                     Burnham.
                  "This way, Ki, quick. I have found Burnham. Thank heaven, he breathes."
                  The three lifted the body, and bore it carefully up the road, where they laid
                     the insensible form upon the grassy bank. A hasty examination discovered no
                     wound, and it was evident the worst to be dreaded was from a few bruises,
                     received in rolling down the rocks against the trees and bushes.
                  In a short time, with rubbing and bathing his face with some water brought from
                     a spring by the road-side, Burnham recovered sufficiently to open his eyes and
                     raise his arms. His first move was to place his hand on the side pocket of his
                     coat, where feeling the dispatches that had been entrusted to his charge for
                     Congress, he murmured "safe, safe," and, looking around upon those who knelt
                     over him, he said:
                  "Ah! Fairfax, Ki, where am I?"
                  "Safe," replied the former, "and out of danger. Do you feel much hurt?"
                  "Only a little stiff. Are the rascals prisoners?"
                  "One dead prisoner yonder," said Ki; "we have seen no other."
                  "Yes, I recollect now—I shot him just as the other two seized me. Go down the
                     bank—search; I am sure, from the horrid shrieks, one of them lies somewhere
                     below the spot you found me, if he did not roll into the river in his death
                     agony."
                  The three dragoons were directed by Fairfax to make search up and down the bank
                     and amid the thicket, which they did, but without success. From appearances,
                     and the traces of blood distinctly seen in the daylight—for the morn was
                     breaking—it was evident that one of his assailants had rolled into the river,
                     and was washed down by the tide.
                  The third—the one who had been the most eager in the attack—Burnham thought had
                     probably effected his escape. He well remembered, when they went over the bank
                     together, the anxiety of one of his two assailants to extricate himself from
                     the perilous fall; and he remembered that he succeeded, just previous to his
                     own contact with the tree, which latter event undoubtedly saved his life.
                  The search after this man proving ineffectual, an examination was made of the
                     clothes of the ruffian who had been killed, but nothing was found upon his
                     person to give any clue about him, except a very handsome silver-mounted
                     pistol, with the letters "R. A." engraved upon it. This Ki took charge of, in
                     hopes that, eventually, some discovery might be made as to the leaders in so
                     foul a business.
                  Burnham being sufficiently recovered to mount on horseback, left, with Ki and
                     Fairfax, for Providence, which place they reached in a little over an hour,
                     leaving the dragoons to follow with the body at their leisure, for the proper
                     authorities to note the occurrence with the inquest.
                  Two days afterwards, Burnham was well enough to leave for Philadelphia, and his
                     friends took the road to head-quarters at Cambridge.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXI.
                  Captain Fairfax, Ensign Ki and the three dragoons leisurely took their way back
                     to the camp before Boston. On their journey they passed the spot where Burnham
                     had been rescued, and although the country people, the next morning after the
                     event, had searched the country round for the surviving ruffian, he could not
                     be found. A small boat was missing from the bank of the little river, in which,
                     it was supposed, he had embarked and floated down with the current beyond
                     immediate pursuit.
                  It was midsummer, and the country around was covered with fields of heavy grain
                     and Indian corn, whose broad green blades waved luxuriantly in the summer wind.
                     The chattering bob'o lincoln in the meadows sent forth his lively notes, as he
                     rose up from the water grass which skirted one side of the road, and flew just
                     out of reach of the travellers, where, perched on the top of a wild oat spear,
                     he whistled merrily "catch me if you can."
                  "This New England, of yours, is a pleasant country, Ensign," said Fairfax to
                     Ki. "Although I do not see that wild and lofty scenery, which belongs to the
                     mountainous regions of the portion of Virginia in which I was born, or the
                     luxuriance of the southern vales, it has a quiet loveliness about it, that
                     delights me."
                  "Yes, Captain," said Ki, as he looked around over the plains and hills that
                     melted away in the distance, "our country is, to us, a beautiful one. To be
                     sure, we don't have many of the beauties that belong to your southern skies,
                     where the land is easier tilled, because the sun shines stronger and steadier,
                     and though we have plenty of rock, we love it all the more, because if we have
                     to work the harder, labor is sweet, when we know that it brings us comfort and
                     independence. We are a close people, Captain, that's the name we bear—we go a
                     long ways for a Spanish dollar, but when we get it, I don't think we hesitate
                     to share it more than other people."
                  "As for that, Ki, I have had ample proof. At the south we have richer families
                     and prouder ones. It is the nature of our people from early habits—habits of
                     wealth and association, to feel more aristocratic than our countrymen of the
                     north—but you have the reasons for greater pride—the pride of industry, which
                     gives to a cold soil fertility, and brings up the mind in a sturdy spirit of
                     reflection and courage that will never bow to oppression, come from whence it
                     will."
                  "Aye! we will think for ourselves. Our people landed here over a
                     century and a half ago, when everything was bleak and barren, that their minds
                     should be free to think, because some of the rulers, kings, nobles and such
                     human made things in their native land across the seas, wanted to claim their
                     belief. It has always seemed to me strange, Captain, that some men should be
                     made better than others by mortal laws, such as kings and dukes, when God made
                     us all in his own image."
                  Fairfax was puzzled at the latter part of Ki's remarks. The question of
                     independence was then but little mooted, even by the leaders, in the colonies.
                     In many cases arms had been taken up to show the English government that we
                     would resist all encroachments upon what we considered our constitutional
                     rights, no taxation without representation, and the matter of separation from
                     the mother country had never been thought of to any extent.
                  "But what mean you, Ki? Do you not consider George the Third our legal
                     ruler?—All we want is a redress of grievances, not separation."
                  "Well, perhaps George the Third may be our legal ruler, if kings are legal.
                     What would kings be without the people? Now, in my opinion, such rulers are
                     useless; why not get along without one. I consider myself a man as much as the
                     King of England over the water. Kings are but men, and some of 'em very bad
                     ones, too, if what I've read and hear'n tell of be true."
                  "But we must have rulers, Ki; rulers are necessary even to preserve the freedom
                     of the people."
                  "Can't we choose them for ourselves, then, for a limited time? I know I'm an
                     ignorant man at best, and can only read, write and cipher a little; but I've
                     read in one of the books at Harry's father's at Oakdale, that in old times some
                     nations chose their own rulers, and famous ones they proved, too."
                  "You speak of the republics of Greece and Rome."
                  "Yes, Captain, that's the name, REPUBLIC. The people used to choose their
                     Tribunes and other officers, didn't they?'
                  "True; but there was anarchy even then."
                  "Well, so there is in kingdoms. But we can improve on these ancient
                     governments. I don't see what we want of a king. If we are capable of making a
                     king tremble on his throne, with arms in our hands, why not throw him aside as
                     useless, and become a republic?"
                  "If we were prepared," said Fairfax, thoughtfully, and for the first time a new
                     light burst upon him. His unlettered companion had aroused within him a belief
                     of a new destiny for his country—from that moment, he became an ardent,
                     unflinching republican.
                  It was about the middle of the afternoon when they reached a small enclosure by
                     the road side, in which a few trees formed a pleasant grove to shelter them
                     from the sun, when Fairfax proposed that they should stop, feed their horses,
                     and take some refreshment themselves, as they had eaten nothing since
                     breakfast. They had brought with them some cold meats and bread, borne by one
                     of the dragoons in his haversack, in preference to stopping at any of the inn's
                     by the road side. A little brook, pure as chrystal, flowed from the enclosure,
                     along the road, and the party dismounting, gave their tired animals water from
                     the stream, and placed before them the supply of grain which each horseman
                     carried behind his saddle.
                  A low, mossy wall of stone, half broken down, was all that guarded the spot of
                     ground off the road-side from intrusion, and Fairfax and his companions entered
                     to take their meal under the shelter of the trees. A few coarse brown
                     stones—placed upright, of irregular shapes, and without inscriptions, together
                     with here and there a mound covered with stones of various sizes, which had
                     been thrown on from time to time, but moss-grown with age from the long lapse
                     of years since they had been cast there by the aborigines—indicated that they
                     stood in an ancient burial place of the Indians. Fairfax and Ki 
                        involuntorily
                        involuntarily
                      removed their military caps, for, though not a word passed between
                     them, both felt as if they were standing upon hallowed ground. The descendants
                     of those who slept below had passed away to other hunting grounds, driven off
                     by the onward march of the whites, and the homes of their fathers knew them no
                     more.
                  "These Injens always picked out a quiet and pretty place to bury their people
                     in, Captain," said Ki, as he looked from mound to mound.
                  "Yes, and we hardly allow their bones to rest in quietness in the soil that
                     once was all theirs. We do not even respect their graves, in many cases, but
                     this spot appears to be an exception."
                  "It really is a lovely place, and I hope it won't be disturbed," said Ki. "I
                     'spose God, for his own purposes, ruled that we whites should occupy their
                     lands; but it is our sin when we won't let their ashes rest. Here
                     now is quite a heap of stones—the grave, likely, of one of their chiefs."
                  They seated themselves beside the grave, the cold provisions were placed upon a
                     coarse brown cloth, in which they had been wrapped, and the party partook of
                     their plain but substantial meal with a relish, in that quiet precinct of the
                     dead, that none but weary travellers know how to enjoy.
                  When their meal was concluded, Fairfax proposed that they should rest for an
                     hour previous to their setting forth on their journey, which would give their
                     horses some respite for the balance of their travel.
                  "Since we are going to stop a little while," said Ki, "if you don't feel
                     sleepy, Captain, I'd like to tell you
                     a story of an Injen King that once ruled all about this part of the country,
                     until his name became as terrible to the whites as Satan himself. But the chief
                     wasn't like Satan, for all that, he was a brave man, and fought for his
                     country, and died for it, the more shame to the whites, I say, for he did right
                     in fighting for his own kin and wigwams."
                  "Tell it, Ensign, I shall be most glad to hear it; I like these old traditions
                     of other times, they are full of instructive lessons." What Ki related we will
                     record, a story that tells faithfully an Indian's recollection of kindness.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              THE STORY OF KING PHILIP*
                                    AND KI'S GRANDFATHER.
                              
                                 
                                 *King Philip, the sachem of the Wamponeags, was the son of
                                    Massasoit, the friend of the whites when they landed on the
                                    Plymouth rock.
                              
                              'My grandfather died about twenty years ago. He was a very old man,
                                 nearly a hundred years when he died, but he was so stout and
                                 hearty, that only a week before he took his departure from earth,
                                 he mowed an acre of meadow land as quick as the youngest man in
                                 town. His eye was as bright and his memory as any one of twenty,
                                 for he'd led a temperate, industrious life, and never knew a day's
                                 sickness. It's hard to say what complaint he died of, for we found
                                 him one day after dinner sitting in his chair, looking for all the
                                 world as if he was in a quiet sleep, but the good old man was
                                 gone—it was only the summer wind that moved his white locks when we
                                 thought they were stirred by his gentle slumbers. He was dead—it
                                 was his birth-day, too—he was ninety-eight that very morn."
                              Ki's voice trembled as he closed the sentence.
                              "My grandfather grew up to be a stout boy of sixteen, expert in all
                                 hardy exercises, and he could fire his gun at that age with a
                                 precision rarely found in marksmen who had hunted the bear, wolf,
                                 and deer, with which the woods were then filled, years before he
                                 was born. One morning in early spring, before the snow had melted
                                 from the hills and in the woods, he started off alone to kill a
                                 deer and bring home some venison.
                              "It was a cold day, and he was unfortunate in finding game. The
                                 deer appeared to be very wild, and it was getting late in the
                                 afternoon ere he succeeded in killing a fine buck, which, hunter
                                 fashion, he skinned and hung upon the branches of a tree, cutting
                                 off the saddle to carry home, leaving the skin, horns and
                                 fore-shoulders for his next morning's journey A glance at the sun
                                 showed him it was yet two hour's high, and as he was some four
                                 miles from home, and quite hungry, he concluded he would cut off a
                                 few steaks, kindle a fire, and make a meal before he started."
                              His father and mother were among the first settlers of one of the
                                 towns on the west bank of Connecticut river—they travelled with
                                 three or four families one winter, from Massachusetts, through the
                                 snows, to the Connecticut, with a few cattle, so as to be on the
                                 ground early in the spring, open their clearings, and plant grain
                                 sufficient for their next winter's consumption. The Injens at that
                                 time were rather friendly, for they had been beaten several times
                                 by the whites, and lost a good many of their warriors, and they
                                 began to despond, thinking in their rude minds it was the will of
                                 the great spirit, because they had displeased him someway. Well, my
                                 grandfather's parents grew in worldly wealth, not in money, for
                                 that they had no use for, but the woods were cleared off, their
                                 fields waved with rich harvests, and their flocks of cattle
                                 increased tenfold.
                              "A minister had settled in the little village, and of a Sabbath
                                 day, from the log meeting house, the thanksgiving and praise of
                                 fifty voices, men, women and children, might have been heard in the
                                 depths of the forest, ascending to heaven.
                              The fire was soon made, two upright sticks, with a wooden spit
                                 passed across on which hung his venison, to broil over the coals,
                                 formed his cooking place, and his savory meat was nearly done, when
                                 looking across a small brook, choked up with snow and ice, he saw
                                 on the opposite side a tall Injin, armed with a gun, about
                                 crossing. To lift up his own gun was, with my grandfather, the work
                                 of an instant, and he took care to point the muzzle in the
                                 direction of the Injin. The latter held up his own weapon, to show
                                 that it was 
                                    destiute
                                    destitute
                                  of a flint, and said, in a feeble voice:
                              "Me friend, Owannux *
                                    boy, me friend."
                              
                                 
                                 *The eastern Indians called Englishmen "Owannux."
                              
                              This appeal was sufficient—the Injin crossed the brook, and knelt
                                 down by the fire to warm his 
                                    chiled
                                    chilled
                                  limbs. At the sight of the cooking venison, he said:
                              "Me very hungry, Owannux; me not eat since two days."
                              The cooked venison was at once withdrawn from the spit, and placed
                                 before the half-starved Injin, for it was plain that his sufferings
                                 arose from hunger. My grandfather at once cut from the saddle
                                 another supply of meat, which he placed upon the fire. "An Injin
                                 will long endure hunger," said Ki, "but when food is in his way, he
                                 never ceases to devour until he is satisfied. My grandfather handed
                                 the chief the choicest parts."
                              "No, no, not all; you eat, too, Owannux boy, me like
                                    you."
                              "Well, my grandfather, who knew as well how to handle cooked
                                 venison as a grown man, though but a boy, took up a piece of the
                                 steak, and drew, at the same time, from his hunting-pack,
                                 half-a-dozen cakes of Injin corn bread, which he had taken from the
                                 buttery when he started in the morning on his hunting excursion,
                                 and said:
                              "See, Injin—corn, corn—me like you, too—Owannux as well as Injin
                                 feel hunger. Eat, Injin, eat."
                              "At the sight of the corn cakes, the red chief was more pleased
                                 than ever, for an Injin could'nt live without corn, and again he
                                 thanked my grandfather. When his hunger was finally satisfied, he
                                 drew from his pouch a deerskin bag, which he opened, and displayed
                                 to my grandfather about two quarts of sweet seed corn.
                              "Owannux," he said, "you see poor much hated Injin. White folks and
                                 my people fight, they kill us, we kill them—my wigwams burn up, my
                                 corn cut down, no food for winter. Me leave my people, go far, far,
                                 to Mohawk Injin to get corn to plant. White people must hate me. I
                                 King Philip." *
                                 
                              
                              
                                 
                                 *This fact is historical. Metacomet, or King Philip, left his
                                    people one winter in the midst of his troubles, and went
                                    among his old enemies, the Mohawks of the Hudson River, to
                                    get seed corn to plant in the ensuing spring.
                              
                              At the name of King Philip, a name so terribly known, my
                                 grandfather started.
                              "No fear, Owannux boy—me your friend, me always be your friend. If
                                 Injin come any time to fight, burn, kill—you show this, Injin go
                                 way, leave you peace."
                              He untied a belt of wampum, curiously marked with beads,
                                 representing various birds and beasts, which he gave to my
                                 grandfather.
                              Not content with supplying the chief with food, he gave him the
                                 spare flints he had about him, all his powder and bullets, and
                                 carefully cooked a large piece of venison which the chief stowed
                                 away in his pouch, for he had yet a long journey before him. The
                                 sun was but an hour high when they parted, and the last word of the
                                 redskin was, "Injin grateful—he no forget you."
                              When my grandfather returned home, he related the story, and the
                                 wampum belt was carefully put away, in remembrance of the dreaded
                                 savage, the great Philip, the terror of the three colonies,
                                 Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut.
                              "Something like two years had rolled away, and, although the Injins
                                 were committing great havoc through New England, burning, and
                                 destroying in every direction, the little hamlet where lived my
                                 ancestors remained untouched, and the minister and people thought
                                 it a direct interposition of Providence in their behalf, that they
                                 should be left unscathed."
                              "One Sabbath day in autumn, just as the services were over in the
                                 humble meeting-house, and the people were about to separate, the
                                 startling war-whoop was heard, and the little green in front of the
                                 building dedicated to God, was in an instant filled with a numerous
                                 band of the savages, all armed, and with horrid grimaces, pointing
                                 their guns at the door from whence the congregation was to leave.
                                 Their numbers were as ten to one compared with the white men, and
                                 but few of the latter had brought their guns with them, although,
                                 at that time, it was customary for the people to go armed to
                                 meeting.
                              "You can imagine, Captain, the confusion and shrieks which arose in
                                 the little meeting-house, filled with women and children, for
                                 death, horrid and cruel, seemed before them. My grandfather—at that
                                 time but a youth of eighteen, but in form and stature tall as I am
                                 now, Captain—was alone undismayed. He felt that they
                                 were safe.
                              "Suddenly, an Injin, more richly dressed than the rest, advanced
                                 from the band, and held up his arm in a of
                                 peace; it was KING PHILIP. My  sitation, left the
                                 building, and advanced to meet the chief.
                              "'Owannux,' said the latter, 'me see you again; you safe—you people
                                 all safe. Say, go home; my people no trouble you, no burn your
                                 wigwams; go all. Owannux, Philip remember kindness, so do Philip's
                                 people. Tell preacher to ask Great Spirit's protection for the red
                                 man. Me go; good bye, Owannux.—When you hear Philip's slain, no
                                 forget me'
                              "The chief went up to his band and conferred with them for a
                                 moment, when the whole party entered the woods and disappeared.
                                 Though their yells were heard in the 
                                    disance
                                    distance
                                 , the Injins were seen no more. On bended knees did the
                                 whole of the white people return thanks to God for their safe
                                 deliverance from bloody massacre.
                              "The war went on, and King Philip was hunted from spot to spot,
                                 like the wolf in his native wilds. My grandfather shouldered his
                                 gun and went forth with the band, under the famous Captain Church,
                                 then engaged in pursuit after the unfortunate chief. It was to save
                                 the latter's life, if possible, that he joined with the
                                 pursuers.
                              "Early one morning, the Injin monarch was surrounded in a swamp,
                                 near his old home of Mount Haup, by the whites, and the attack was
                                 made upon his band just at daylight. My grandfather caught a
                                 glimpse of the flying chief, and pressed on, calling to him by
                                 name, when, as he turned and seemed to recognize him, a ball from
                                 the musket of a friendly Injen killed the red monarch instantly, He
                                 fell upon his face in the mud and mire of the swamp, and when he
                                 was lifted up, the soul of the great Injin monarch, King Philip,
                                 had passed away for ever."
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "'Tis a sad story, Ki, and sadly have we wronged the Indians," said Fairfax, as
                     the Ensign concluded his legend. "May God protect their graves and the spot
                     where we now stand! Your story has made me melancholy, related as it has been
                        here. Let us to horse at once"
                  The party were soon remounted, and before daylight reached head quarters at
                     Cambridge.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXII.
                  It was the close of July, in 1775, that Burnham reached Philadelphia with the
                     despatches for Congress from the Commander-in-Chief before Boston.
                  He arrived a few days before the adjournment*
                      of that powerful body—a congregation of men of mighty talent, whose
                     deliberations began to excite the attention of all Europe. The Congress which
                     met in the spring of 1775 was formed from the most influential men in the
                     colonies. They met together with the determination (there was an
                     exception or two) concerning rights from the British
                     Government; if rights were raised, then the broad question
                     was to spring up, shall we, (Congress) the representatives of
                        
                        *This Congress adjourned on the 1st of August, 1775, to the 5th September
                           following.
                      the people, declare the country ready to strike
                     blow for blow against oppression?—in other words, the motto be—"Independence, nothing but Independence?"
                  As our story, in its main points, is truly historical, it may not be out of
                     place in this chapter to state the names of the members of the Congress of
                     1775, the men who, by their acts, caused, one year after, the
                     declaration of independence, many of whom signed that immortal paper. On the
                     10th of May, 1775, the members met in the State House at Philadelphia: the
                     credentials read as follows:—
                  
                     New Hampshire—John Sullivan, John Langdon.
                  
                     Massachusetts—John Hancock, Thomas Cushing, Samuel Adams, John
                     Adams, Robert Treat Paine.
                  
                     Rhode 
                        Islaad
                        Island
                     —Stephen Hopkins, Samuel Ward.
                  
                     Connecticut—Eliphalet Eyer, Roger Sherman, Silas Deane, Titus
                     Hosmer, Jonathan Sturgess.
                  
                     New York—Philip Livingston, James Duane, John Alsop, John Jay,
                     Simon Boerum, William Floyd, Henry Wisner, Philip Schuyler, George Clinton,
                     Lewis Morris, Robert R. Livingston.
                  
                     New Jersey—James Kinsey, Stephen Crane, William Livingston, John
                     de Hart, Richard Smith.
                  
                     Pennsylvania—Edward Biddle, John Dickinson, Thomas Miffin.
                     Charles Humphreys, John Morton, George Ross, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Willing,
                     James Wilson.
                  
                     Delaware—Cæsar Rodney, Thomas M'Kean, George Reed.
                  
                     Maryland—Matthew Tilghman, Thomas Johnson, jr., Robert
                     Goldsborough, William Paca, Samuel Chase, John Hall, Thomas Stone.
                  
                     Virginia—Peyton Randolph, GEORGE WASHINGTON, Patrick Henry,
                     Richard Henry Lee, Edward Pendleton, Benjamin Harrison, Richard Bland.
                  
                     North Carolina—William Hooper, Joseph Hewes, Richard Caswell.
                  
                     South Carolina—Henry Middleton, Thomas Lynch, Christopher
                     Gadsden, John Rutledge, Edward Rutledge.
                  Some of these members—but few, however,—never attended. Yet, as it was
                        this Congress set the "ball in motion," it is proper that the
                     names of such great men should go down to posterity as connected with the
                     dawnings of the revolution. On the 13th of May, Lyman Hall presented his
                     credentials as a representative of a portion of Georgia, and the thirteen colonies were then in session, the agents of the whole people from
                     Canada to Florida.
                  It was to this Congress that Burnham bore dispatches from the
                     Commander-in-Chief. He arrived in the city of Philadelphia just at the close of
                     night, and put up at Mrs. Graydon's,*
                      a patriotic lady of the time. His instructions from Washington being
                     explicit as to their immediate delivery, he barely took time to recover himself
                     with a cup of tea before obeying orders.
                  
                     
                     *Mother of Captain Graydon, of the Pennsylvania line, who published some
                        interesting memoirs thirty years ago.
                  
                  The President of Congress was John Hancock, of Massachusetts, he having been
                     chosen presiding officer of that honorable body on the resignation of Peyton
                     Randolph, a month or two before.
                  President Hancock resided, at the time, in Chestnut street. Being one of the
                     wealthiest men in Congress, he lived in great style, 
                        and and
                        and
                      his house was the resort of many of the members during the evening,
                     as well as the place where the fashionables of the city were especially
                     invited. Hancock was left a fortune of nearly half a million of dollars, 
                        ac-according
                        according
                      to the value of money of our day, and he was in his expenditures
                     princely. It is said that some of his dinner-parties, given in Philadelphia, at
                     the time he was President of Congress, cost him three thousand dollars each; a
                     fact characteristic of the liberality of the man.
                  When Burnham, accompanied by a guide, approached the mansion, he found it in a
                     blaze of light, much to his astonishment, and for a moment hesitated whether to
                     enter or not. He recollected, however, that his orders were imperative, and he
                     stepped up to the door, where a servant in livery was in attendance, and
                     communicated his wish to see the President of Congress.
                  "Are you one of the invited guests, sir?" was the reply of the servant, in
                     polite terms.
                  "No. I have been in the city but a little while, and wish to see Mr. Hancock in
                     private."
                  "I am afraid, sir," said the servant, hesitating, "to disturb his Excellency
                     to-night, for he gives a large party to Congress. Will not to-morrow 
                        answer answer
                        answer
                      as well?"
                  "I have dispatches for him from General Washington, and it is necessary that
                     they should be delivered to him to-night," was the reply of Burnham.
                  "I beg your pardon, sir. His Excellency has given orders to admit those
                     gentlemen who are on business of the country to his presence, at all hours. Be
                     good enough to walk this way."
                  The servant conducted Burnham to a room in the second story, small but
                     handsomely furnished. An elegant desk, covered with papers, and a book-case,
                     occupied a good portion of the room. The whole appearance of the place
                     indicated to Burnham that he was in the study of the President of Congress. The
                     servant placed a lamp upon the table, and handing the visitor a chair, said he
                     would inform his Excellency of his presence.
                  There was a portrait in the room, which attracted Burnham's attention. It was
                     that of an elegant young man, richly attired, and painted in a style of rare
                     execution. Naturally fond of the art, the young officer was examining it with
                     attention, mingled with admiration, holding up the lamp, and shutting his eye
                     to get a full view, he exclaimed, involuntarily, "beautiful!"
                  "Yes, the painting is beautiful. What a pity that an artist like Copley,*
                        should not be a patriot. Pity, pity!"
                  
                     
                     *John Copley, the Boston painter, went to London when the Revolution broke
                        out. He was a loyalist. His son, Lord Lyndhurst, Ex-Chancellor of Great
                        Britain, was born in Boston.
                  
                  Burnham turned round;—so attentive had he been examining the portrait, he had
                     not heard the step of the person who now stood beside him. A single glance was
                     sufficient to satisfy him that the representation on canvass, was the
                     counterfeit presentment of the speaker, though taken much earlier in life,—JOHN
                     HANCOCK, the President of Congress.
                  Mr. Hancock, at that period, 1775, was really an elegant man. In stature he was
                     of the average height, rather above it. His figure was neither too portly or
                     too slender, and his movements full of the grace of a well-bred gentleman. He
                     wore a dark silk velvet coat and brocade waistcoat; breeches of velvet, and
                     white silk stockings. His features were fine, and, though rising forty, he was,
                     what the ladies would call, a handsome man.
                  "I see, sir," he continued, "you love the arts. Be seated. John Copley is a
                     painter. What a peculiarity in the blending of his colors, and what refinement
                     of drawing. He has no equals at the present day in the fidelity of his
                     portraits, and he will leave behind him memoirs of his greatness, that will
                     endure, when you, young man, and I, are dust in the grave."
                  "He is, indeed, sir, a great painter," replied Burnham, "and, although this is
                     the first of his portraits that I ever met with, I can see his fidelity in
                     transferring to canvass a face that deserves all the immortality an artist can
                     give, and one that will live in fame longer than the fragile beauties of the
                     artist."
                  "You are complimentary, sir," answered Hancock, with a pleasant smile,
                        "my name will descend to posterity only in connection with the
                     great object for which are now contending—liberty. I shall be preserved, like
                     the fly in amber, not for itself, but for the transparent shell which encloses
                     it."
                  "Posterity, sir, will do justice to all—and the name of Hancock will not be the
                     least in the memory of other generations. I must ask your pardon for disturbing
                     you from the festivities of the night, but as I am the bearer of despatches of
                     importance from General Washington, I considered it my duty, as well as obeying
                     my orders, to lay them before you at once." Burnham handed the despatches to
                     the President.
                  "You have done right, sir: the business of the colonies must be attended to
                     before all others, and at all times."
                  Mr. Hancock then proceeded to open the letters and read their contents, which
                     occupied some time, occasionally making memorandums on a sheet of paper before
                     him. Once he rang a small bell, and when the attendant came, he gave him a note
                     with instructions to deliver it at once to Mr. Thomson.
                  At length he finished reading the documents, and said—
                  "My young friend, I am glad to see you. It may be somewhat of a surprise that I
                     should be so familiar, personally, to you. I know you to be a
                     gentleman, 
                        as as
                        as
                      such I receive you."
                  "Believe me," said Burnham, in answer, "to be your equal only in one thing—as a
                     friend of my country. In that I admit of no superior. Whatever may be the
                     despatches from his Excellency, General Washington, I will say he is the
                     greatest man yet produced in this country, and he cannot have a superior. Think
                     of this, your Excellency."
                  "You have spoken truly. Now, then, my friend you must accompany me."
                  "Where?" said Burnham.
                  "To the ball-room, the ball-room. I will show you some of the most beautiful
                     females in the world."
                  "But, my dear sir, am I in a plight to enter a ball-room? Excuse me, your
                     Excellency; I was merely deputed to deliver despatches, not to attend balls. I
                     trust my excuse will be sufficient."
                  Hancock laughed long and loud before he said a word in reply. "Why, Captain
                     Burnham,—I now call you by name for the first time—the General recommends you
                     to me as a young man of classical education, singularly bland, of a disposition
                     remarkably kind, a heart open, fascinating in your manners, etc., etc., and yet
                     you will not attend the assemblage given by me to Congress! Ah, Captain! you
                     are a sad young fellow, it must be owned. So then you will not view the fair
                     ladies of Philadelphia, ha?"
                  "Sir, if the Commander-in-Chief has mentioned my name, I feel gratified; never
                     before did I feel so proud of what was said of me, since I received my diploma
                     from my alma mater. I will attend the party
                     given by you to Congress, although my garments are hardly fit for the company
                     among whom I am invited"
                  "Why, my young friend," replied Hancock, "that uniform of blue and buff which
                     you wear, is a noble livery: it is the livery of your country, and, as such,
                     will never be out of place. Have you dined?"
                  "No, your Excellency," answered Burnham, 'but I have supped, which is the same
                     thing. But, my good sir, consider well—is my dress fitted for the congregation
                     of such guests as you have invited?"
                  "Fitted!—bah! You will be the 'observed of all observers,' as old Shakspeare
                     says. You are worth a thousand pistoles to my party."
                  "Consider, sir."
                  "Consider! What do you mean? Are you not an American officer?"
                  "Yes, sir, but a very dusty one. My blue and buff, as you call my dress, are
                     nearly of the same color, facings and body alike. You surely would not wish
                     thus to introduce me amid your friends?"
                  "Certainly I would."
                  "In this dress?"
                  "In no other," replied Hancock. "Were I to dress you in gold and jewels, ill
                     would you represent the army, in its present situation. Remember this, my
                     friend Captain Burnham. To-night, for better or for worse, your appearance
                     shall create a feeling among the members that will end in a new
                        appropriation for the military
                     chest. The General writes me he wants money. He shall have it, if I have the
                     least power as President of Congress, and you shall be the agent to accomplish
                     it."
                  "In what way, sir?" said Burnham.
                  "You were at Bunker's Hill battle?"
                  "Yes, sir, I was."
                  "Very good,—now then, you shall understand. I will introduce you to all that
                     meet me to-night, as one of the patriots who fought on that field, or rather
                     hill. I shall expect you to give a full description of the battle, and for that
                     reason you must be prepared to give it. You will thereby do your country a
                     service."
                  "But, your Excellency, I do not understand what is to be gained by this egotism
                     on my part."
                  "My brave fellow, you are as yet little acquainted with the world. You told me
                     you fought on Bunker Hill—in fact, I knew it—your name was mentioned in the
                     despatches when we received the accounts."
                  "I was, I repeat to your Excellency, on Bunker Hill during the fight; but what,
                     sir, has that to do with my appearance at your ball or party?"
                  "Simply this, then, my dear Captain, since you will have it so—to get an
                     appropriation, and a good one, from Congress, to enable General Washington to
                     carry out his operations in full. There is some jealousy about appropriations
                     for particular objects at this time. Your presence before several members of
                     the committee, unofficially, to-night, will have great weight upon
                     their official acts, and cause them to give their final votes favorably in
                     regard to matters connected with the despatches you brought me. Is there
                     anything wrong in my proposals, my young friend?—Speak, for I am an anxious
                     listener. Some one is approaching."
                  "Well, since your Excellency wishes it, I will certainly remain and attend the
                     ball given by you, if matters upon such important subjects are not beyond being
                     entitled to the humble services of an officer on Continental pay, as I am."
                  "Fitly spoken, Captain Burnham," was the reply, "fitly spoken. You shall be the
                     Bayard of the company to-night—the chevalier, sans peur
                        et sans reproche. Come, come, the bells are sounding, the knight
                     is coming, and I will be your herald. On to the party, Burnham! On! Remember, I
                     am but your esquire in this new enterprise."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIII.
                  THE COMPANY AT PRESIDENT HANCOCK'S.
                  Seventy years ago, company assembled earlier than at the present time. At Mr.
                     Hancock's the entertainments consisted not alone of dancing, eating and talking
                     soft nonsense, but the sages of the land were gathered together, and
                     philosophy, politics, science, the arts and general literature formed the
                     topics of conversation. It was amid such a company that Burnham was to enter,
                     and no wonder that he felt somewhat confused when he followed President Hancock
                     into the assemblage.
                  Two large rooms were in a blaze of light, both filled with ladies and
                     gentlemen, and a general buzz was heard on all sides.
                  "You here behold, my young friend," said the President, whispering in Burnham's
                     ear, "the sages of our land from all parts of our country. Shall I lead you
                     first among the fair sex, or shall I introduce you to some of the members of
                     Congress?"
                  "To neither, at present, your Excellency. I should like to stroll around and
                     observe unnoticed the faces of those I see, and ascertain if I am not Lavater
                     enough to pick out by physiognomy those whose names are already familiar to
                     me."
                  "As you wish, but first let me select a cicerone of your own age. You must have a guide. Here, Williams,"
                     said Hancock, to a tall elegant young man, dressed in a half military costume,
                     "let me introduce you to Captain Burnham, from the army, just from camp,—where
                     you are soon to go. Be his guide through the rooms; an old fellow like me is
                     but poor company for you young bloods."
                  It was thus that Burnham became acquainted with Otho Holland Williams, of
                     Maryland, he who afterwards served so conspicuously during the revolution, as a
                     brave and gallant officer, particularly in the campaigns at the South, under
                     Green.
                  "With all my heart, Mr. President, and I am proud, I assure you, to make the
                     acquaintance of Captain Burnham at this time. What little service I can be to
                     him, shall be given with pleasure."
                  "There, Burnham, when you get tired of looking at the men, Williams will
                     introduce you to the ladies, for he has an eye to beauty. At supper-time I will
                     again take you in charge. Adieu."
                  And the gentlemanly Hancock left them to speak to Charles Thomson, the
                     Secretary of Congress, who had just entered the room.
                  William and Burnham strolled together, stopping here and there, as the
                     conversation arrested their attention. The company was very numerous, of both
                     sexes, and from the age of seventeen up to that of the octogenarian. Everything
                     appeared to be discussed, and with perfect freedom—here a party debating upon
                     certain appropriations in Congress, there a lively group laughing at a jest,
                     and another discussing the propriety of making an alliance with foreign
                     powers.
                  A venerable man, surrounded while speaking by anxious listeners of both sexes,
                     particularly awakened Burnham's curiosity. His age must have been near or quite
                     seventy, and his countenance was marked with strong intellect and benevolent
                     serenity. His voice was beautifully modulated, aged as he was, and every tone
                     sank deep into the ears of those around.
                  His dress was simple, 
                        yot
                        yet
                      in good taste. A drab coat, cut somewhat in the fashion of the
                     Friends, and breeches of the same color, knee and shoe buckles of silver. He
                     carried his spectacles in his hand, for when conversing he seldom wore them,
                     and in making his gestures he waved them before him.
                  "Ah!" said Burnham, "that face is as familiar to me as if I had known it for a
                     lifetime. What a glorious name will be his in the future annals of this land.
                     Other generations of Americans will turn with pride to the name of their
                     countryman—the sage, the philosopher, and the statesman—BENJAMIN FRANKLIN."
                  "Let us approach near enough to listen," said his companion.
                  The circle enlarged, and they entered it among the rest of the company. The
                     Doctor was giving an account of his citation to appear before the Privy
                     Council, in London, to answer to the charge of purloining certain letters from
                     the foreign office, addressed to the Secretary of State by Governor
                        Hutchinson,*
                        of Massachusetts.
                  
                     
                     *This memorable examination occurred a few years before, when Franklin was
                        one of the agents for Massachusetts and other colonies.
                  
                  "Wedderburne,"†
                      said the Doctor, "was extremely bitter; he accused me not only of
                     actually committing robbery of the King's papers, but that I had been nearly
                     the cause murder, in consequence of the duel which took place between two
                     members of parliament in relation to my coming into possession of Governor
                     Hutchinson's letters. His denunciations were very bitter, and Edmund Burke and
                     other friends advised me to withdraw. I told them I knew too much of thunder to
                     be frightened by such a puny storm."
                  
                     
                     †Then Attorney General, afterwards Lord Loughborough. He acted as public
                        prosecutor.
                  
                  "And yet, if I remember right," said one of the listeners, the portly Benjamin
                     Harrison, of Virginia, "you obtained possession of those celebrated letters,
                     which have done so much to bring on the present troubles, in an honorable
                     manner."
                  "I know not to this day,"‡
                      continued the Doctor, "the person to whom I am indebted for them. On
                     entering my lodgings, one evening, I found a package directed to me, which my
                     servant told me had been left just at dusk, by a man wrapped in a cloak. They
                     were of importance, he said, and intended for my hand alone. On opening the
                     package, I found it contained original letters from Hutchinson to the Secretary
                     of State, treasonable and treacherous to Massachusetts. I was astonished, and
                     by the next packet transmitted them to the Assembly. I considered it my duty to
                     do so."
                  
                     
                     ‡It has since been ascertained that the late Doctor Hugh Williams, of
                        North Carolina, obtained these letters from the office of the Secretary
                        of State in London, and left them at the lodgings of Doctor Franklin in
                        the manner stated.
                  
                  "And I am told, Doctor, you bore all these assaults of Wedderburne with perfect
                     calmness, in spite of his insults," said a young lady, of great beauty, to the
                     sage.
                  "Certainly, my dear Miss Shippen. The slanders of some men are like the
                     hootings of owls—the sound is disagreeable but harmless. When he had concluded,
                     I simply whispered to some of my friends, but loud enough for the slanderer to
                     hear, 'This man's king and master shall pay for this.'"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *A fact. On that day, before the Privy Council, Franklin wore a black
                        tabby-velvet suit. He never put it on again until he signed the treaty of
                        peace between the United States and England, at Paris, in 1783! Verily,
                        Wedderburne's insult was repaid.
                  
                  There was a buzz of approbation amid the group, as Franklin said these
                     words.
                  Burnham felt his arm grasped, and before he had time to turn for the purpose of
                     seeing who it was, he was gently pushed into the inner portion of the circle,
                     within a foot of Franklin, and Hancock spoke:
                  "Doctor Franklin, and ladies and gentlemen, this is Captain Burnham, just from
                     the army—a brave participator in the affair at Bunker Hill, who can give you a
                     good account of it, if his modesty will permit."
                  Burnham, taken by surprise, with every eye fixed upon him, wished at the moment
                     he was on Bunker Hill again, a mark for the enemy, rather than in his present
                     position.—Recovering himself, however, he bowed to those around, and addressed
                     himself to Franklin:
                  "It has long been my wish, sir, to meet one so famous as Dr. Franklin, but I
                     assure you that his Excellency, the President, has thrust me forward into your
                     society, and amid this group, in a manner that has given me a shock almost as
                     great as if I had come in contact with one of the celebrated electric batteries
                     which your scientific discoveries have rendered so famous."
                  "Then, my young friend, I must apply a negative force to reverse the shock,"
                     answered the Doctor. "Take my hand, and perhaps the electricity will pass off.
                     If it was the hand of one of these fair beauties I see around me, I doubt not
                     but you would receive a touch of electricity in earnest. Women are great
                     conductors of the fluid."
                  "Ah, Doctor! in spite of that age of yours, which you complain of so much, you
                     are more complimentary to us poor females than all the young gallants in town.
                     Captain Burnham, excuse my interruption, I claim your acquaintance through the
                     general introduction made by the President."
                  "I believe, Miss Shippen, you invited me to dance with you the first quadrille
                     that is to be formed presently," said Franklin, smiling; "I did not absolutely
                     refuse, although my limbs are rather stiff with bearing about for seventy years
                     a body that has but very ill repaid their support. I shall now insist upon
                     dancing by proxy, as the kings on the other side of the Atlantic
                     wed their brides. My representative on this occasion shall be Capt. Burnham.
                     There, my lady—no declining; my will is imperative as that of the Czar of the
                     Muscovites—obey, or the knout."
                  "Sir, I shall be too happy to act as your proxy on such an occasion, and I
                     trust that the lady will not refuse the request you have so kindly made, or
                     rather, I should say, ordered."
                  "Well, sir, as it is the request of my grandpapa, for the
                     philosopher will insist upon my calling him by that name, I will comply for
                     this once, with one proviso, that you give us a full description of the battle of Bunker's
                     Hill, how you fought, what deeds you performed, and
                     how many of the enemy you slew with your valiant arm, truly and
                     modestly. Ah, Captain! I have you now."
                  "Leave that to me, my dear Miss Shippen," answered the Doctor, without giving
                     time for Burnham to reply, "the Captain, as a matter of course, will relate to
                     us civilians, a full account of the fight on the hill near Boston. To me it
                     will be more than interesting, for many a time, when a printer's boy in Boston,
                     have I enjoyed with my comrades an hour's sport on that very hill, little
                     thinking it was to be made so memorable in my country's history."
                  In vain did Burnham refer the group to the accounts which had been published in
                     the papers of the day, the cry was universal for his description. Compelled, at
                     length, to go on, he gave a full detail of the occurrences, commencing with the
                     night march to the hill, and the operations of the contending troops on the
                     next day, omitting, however, such matters as related to himself, except the
                     fact of his being taken prisoner, and carried into Boston.
                  When he had concluded, a voice on the outer edge of the company, (which had
                     increased to double the assemblage from the time Burnham commenced,) asked—
                  "Have you not forgotten one incident? A certain Ensign, in endeavoring to save
                     his flag from capture, was surrounded, and rather than escape by leaving it in
                     the hands of the enemy, preferred falling with it in his hand. The flag was
                     saved through his bravery, and borne off by a comrade, but the Ensign himself
                     fell covered with wounds, and was taken prisoner. Do you remember
                     his name?"
                  Ere Burnham could make a reply, Miss Shippen said:
                  "I do—if I mistake not his name was Burnham. Was he any relation
                     of yours, Captain?"
                  This was said with such a meaning look, that Burnham could not help feeling a
                     thrill of pleasure rush through his heart, that his humble deeds, untold by
                     himself, were not unknown to those around.
                  "I told you all that my young soldier's modesty was very great. Here you have
                     all been listening to his narrative, and not once did you hear him mention his
                     own name. Now that you know who he is, do not spoil him by over attention. But
                     I see you have him under your special charge, Miss Shippen; take good care of
                     him."
                  Thus spoke President Hancock, as he pushed his way into the group.
                  "Never fear me, your Excellency," replied the laughing maiden; "I shall rather
                     expect him to pay me all the attention, rather than receive any.
                     "Is it not so, Captain?"
                  "My dear young lady," said Burnham, "I shall endeavor to pay you not only all
                     attention, but adoration, and will, like a true knight, try to deserve the
                     approbation of one so kind and generous to a stranger, as Miss Shippen."
                  "Stop—stop—flattery so soon? I shall take up with good papa
                     Franklin, the sage, if you go on at that rate. Why, you are a complete adept in
                     the art of praising us poor maidens—a perfect Amadis de Gaul, is
                     he not, dear good papa?"
                  "It is a long time, my dear girl, since I read the romance in question. But you
                     will find the Captain a proper chevalier, I doubt not. Perhaps he may inculcate
                     you with rather more republican ideas, and a brighter view of our side of the
                     question, than you now entertain, for I know in that heart of your's exists a
                     little more Tory blood than is really beneficial."
                  "Ah! I am a king's woman, I admit, Doctor, and glory somewhat in
                     the title. But hark! the music, Captain; now, papa, to see how
                     your proxy will dance in your place in the quadrille."
                  Saying this, with Burnham, she passed into the ball room.
                  Miss Shippen was the daughter of Judge Shippen, one of the first men, in point
                     of family and influence, in Pennsylvania. She was the belle of Philadelphia,
                     and with the British officers, stationed in that city previous to their
                     withdrawal at the commencement of the revolution, was the reigning toast. Her
                     father's political associations and predilections were with the mother country,
                     and his daughter inherited all his aristocratic feelings and pride. A few years
                     later, when the British, under General Howe, took the city, Major Andre was her
                     knight in the famous tournament given by the British officers, called Mischianza, to Gen. Howe, on the occasion of his recal home by the
                     British government. After the evacuation of Philadelphia by Sir Henry Clinton,
                     in 1778, when the notorious General Arnold was made Governor of the city by
                     Washington, that traitor (then beloved by his countrymen,) married Miss
                     Shippen. As she will again be mentioned in another part of this story, we will
                     not now speak of after events, as connected with our tale.
                  The ball room was magnificently lit up, and well filled with the beauty of
                     Philadelphia. Among the male portion of those ready to engage in the dance,
                     might have seen many of "the sage grave signors" of Congress. Many of the
                     members of that body might yet be called young men, particularly those from the
                     South. The couple opposite to Burnham was Mr. Rutledge, of South Carolina, and
                     Miss Cadwallader, of Philadelphia.
                  Burnham found his partner full of arch vivacity, witty and original in her
                     remarks. She was evidently a young lady of strong mind, a little bent with
                     self-will and prejudice—but bold and open in her opinions, which she hesitated
                     not to express without fear or favor.
                  "Now it is too bad," she said to Burnham, after they had gone through a figure,
                     "that the young men of the colonies should engage in this senseless rebellion.
                     Why, Captain, it is well you have made my acquaintance; perhaps one of these
                     days I may be called upon to pray for your life."
                  "I hope, my dear Miss Shippen, you will always mention my name in your prayers.
                     I am sure that if you do, the whispers of one angel will be borne above to be
                     recorded by others, to my credit."
                  "Good heavens! Captain Burnham, you really frighten me. Why, sir, where were
                     you educated? In Cupid's court I'll be bound, and fed on flattery with a pap
                     spoon. You beat Sir Charles Vivian of the Guards, and he was accounted the most
                     smooth-tongued and dangerous man among his majesty's troops stationed in
                     Philadelphia. An angel!—well, well, he never called me that."
                  "Perhaps, Miss Shippen, you never volunteered to pray for him, as you almost
                     promised to do for my life."
                  "Ah! that was figuratively, Sir. The troops of the king will certainly beat
                     those of the colonies in the end, Suppose you are taken prisoner, and just as
                     they are about to lead you to the gallows for a rebel, my prayers may be of
                     avail in saving your life. What a romantic thing lt would be!"
                  "Not exactly so romantic to me, to find myself on a gallows! I pray you, no
                     more of that kind of romance: I shudder already. But I really am disappointed
                     to find Miss Shippen so much the friend of our oppressors!"
                  "Oppression!—ha! ha! ha!" she replied, laughing—"the old story. The parliament
                     having seen fit to put an extra penny duty on tea, all the old granddames in
                     the country are up in arms, and threaten, with their teapots alone, to drive
                     all his majesty's troops out of the colonies. It is really laughable to think
                     of. Ha! ha!—oppression, forsooth!"
                  Burnham was about to make a serious reply, when, to his astonishment, he saw a
                     well-known form approaching, in company with President Hancock. Could it be
                     possible?—Yes, there was no mistaking that figure in blue and buff, towering a
                     head and shoulders over the tallest man in the room—it was Ensign Ki, whom he
                     supposed at that moment many hundred miles distant.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIV.
                  When Fairfax and Ki reached head-quarters as Cambridge, after leaving Burnham
                     at Providence in safety to proceed on his journey to Philadelphia, the
                     Virginian went at once to the room of the Commander-in-Chief to report the
                     particulars of his journey.
                  Although it was but just daylight, Fairfax knew the systematic habits of
                     Washington, and among these was one of early rising and arranging the duties of
                     the day. He was at once admitted by the orderly, and, to his surprise, found a
                     number of the higher officers in consultation with the General. The aids and
                     two or three other officers were all busily engaged in writing, and there was
                     an appearance of bustle and activity, which denoted something especial had
                     occurred. Fairfax paused for a moment and looked around to see if there was any
                     one to whom he could address himself, and ask in a whisper what was the meaning
                     of this early assemblage at the Commander-in-Chief's.
                  He did not remain long in doubt, for he heard his name mentioned at the
                     council, and he advanced at once to the table, around which the officers were
                     arranged.
                  "Ah! Captain Fairfax, we were anxiously waiting your return. Are the papers and
                     messenger safe?" was the exclamation of Washington.
                  "Yes, sir; Captain Burnham is now on his way to Congress," and he proceeded to
                     relate the attack and rescue of his friend.
                  "So far, all is well then, gentlemen," said the Commander-in-Chief; the
                     question now is, shall we despatch a few horsemen and arrest the man we suspect
                     to be engaged in a treasonable correspondence with the enemy, or, for the
                     present, had we better let the thing remain quiet, and keep a strict watch
                     until we have a certainty that he is employed in such correspondence. A charge
                     so grievous should be very clear, as to its truth, in authorizing the arrest of
                     a man holding so important a station."
                  "I am for the arrest, at once, General, as I said before," was the reply of the
                     bluff old Putnam, as one of the council; "the higher the station, I have a
                     calculation, the less room for suspicion ought there be. I'd arrest the
                     President of Congress himself, if I thought he deserved it—that I would."
                  Washington merely smiled at the impetuosity of the "old French war" soldier,
                     and he cast his eyes upon an officer who had as yet not expressed a word upon
                     the subject.
                  "What say you, General Greene?"
                  A personal description of this celebrated officer, who, it is generally
                     allowed, was the chief favorite of Washington in after campaigns, and upon
                     whose opinion and good sense he placed more reliance than on any other of his
                     companions in arms, may not be out of place. In making the remark, that
                     Washington always thought so strongly of Greene's opinions. we are merely
                     stating a matter of historical fact. His selection of Greene to take command of
                     the southern army, after the defeat of Gates, is a proof of this.
                  Greene was not yet forty years of age, of fine manly appearance. His stature
                     was above the middle height, and, though slightly lame, his bearing was erect
                     and soldierly. There was a slight expression of sternness in his features,
                     though no man had a kinder and more generous heart. His eyes were of a greyish
                     blue, and his nose slightly acquiline; his mouth small, and lips thin—the
                     general indication of firmness and decision of character, with great
                     self-denial. When he spoke, his utterance was rapid, but the words clear and
                     distinct. Greene, in early life, had followed the pursuit of his father—a
                     blacksmith,—and, at the same time, carried on the heavier branches of the
                     trade, by establishing a large iron foundry in his native colony of Rhode
                     Island. He was well educated, though self-educated, and had been a great reader
                     and seeker after general knowledge. Though by birth a Quaker, he had for two
                     years read and studied much on military matters, and at the commencement of the
                     war, was first elected to the command of the "Kentish Guards," next made
                     Colonel, and by Congress appointed the
                     Eighth Brigadier General in the Continental service.
                  "My opinion, your Excellency," replied Greene to the Commander-in-Chief,
                     "differs somewhat from that of all present. We have no actual proof against Dr.
                     Church, and the accusation is one of so 
                        henious
                        heinous
                      a nature that to arrest him upon suspicion only, would look as if we
                     were afraid of our own friends, and the effect would benefit the enemy. It is
                     true that his name is casually mentioned in these dispatches, which were
                     intercepted so curiously between here and Providence by Captain Burnham—yet,
                     still there is nothing in them to affix real guilt to the Director General and
                     Chief Physician of the hospital.*
                      We have a right to suspect—nothing more. I would neither call the
                     doctor to account, nor arrest him, but look well to his conduct for the future.
                     If he is guilty, it will soon become apparent. In the meantime, I would forward
                     all of these documents to Congress. and take means to ferret out those engaged
                     in bearing them through the country. Captain Fairfax states that one of the
                     men, at least, escaped. He cannot as yet have got into Boston."
                  
                     
                     *Dr. Church held these offices. Of him, more hereafter.
                  
                  "Very good, General!" said Putnam, as soon as Greene had concluded, "but I go
                     for making the arrest of this Doctor at once, or I'm afraid he'll give us a
                     medicine that will physic the whole colonies. If we let him alone, see what a
                     deal of mischief he can make; besides, if he is guilty, he'll soon become
                     acquainted with the arrest of the messenger with dispatches, and make his
                     escape at once."
                  "I have thought that over fully, General Putnam," said Washington. "I will,
                     however, take such precaution, that for a few days to come, the Doctor can have
                     no communication with any one suspected, but to my knowledge; yet, at the same
                     time, he shall have no reason to think he is watched, if he proves guilty. I
                     shall send him an instant message, requiring his attention to certain matters
                     connected with his responsible office, that will prevent his asking leave of
                     absence for several days. The Council is dissolved, gentlemen, but I request
                     your presence at breakfast."
                  The officers immediately left the room, with the exception of the
                     Commander-in-Chief, who, taking Fairfax on one side, briefly said to him,
                  "I have particular business for you, Captain, and Ensign Lane, after breakfast,
                     if you are not already fatigued with your recent duties."
                  "I am not at all fatigued, I assure your Excellency, and as for the Ensign, I
                     think it would be hard to place him in any duty or service, that he could not
                     wear out any six ordinary men."
                  "So much the better. I have important matters to keep you both in action. Will
                     you breakfast with me, the meal is now ready?"
                  Fairfax excused himself, for he had sundry things to attend to that called him
                     to his own quarters, and he left the Commander-in-Chief to return with Ensign
                     Lane, in an hour's time. On reaching his own quarters, he found that the negro
                     servant he had brought with him, not expecting him, had made no preparation for
                     his meal, and the mess of his regiment being a mile off, he changed his linen,
                     and hastened to Ki's quarters.
                  The lodgings of Ki were also distant from his regiment, for having been
                     appointed to command the small detachment selected as the body-guard of
                     Washington, he had been assigned a room in a house at Cambridge, his men
                     occupying the rest of the building.
                  To this room Fairfax made his way, and the first thing that saluted his
                     olfactories as he entered, was the savory smell of a beefsteak broiling on the
                     coals—a scent richer than any perfume, to the nostrils of a hungry man. A small
                     table, covered with a clean brown linen cloth, on which reposed, in a sort of
                     "come eat me way," a large loaf of rye and Indian bread, a plate with a roll of
                     fresh butter, and a tin coffee pot, from which steamed a delicious fragrance,
                     that made Fairfax snuff with delight. Over the coals, he observed the tall
                     figure of Ki, anxiously watching the cooking, as he turned upon its opposite
                     side the steak which was broiling on the gridiron.
                  Without saying a word or announcing his presence, Fairfax seized upon the loaf
                     and cut from it a huge slice, which he buttered to suit himself, and sat down
                     by the table, eating away most heartily. He had disposed of his first slice,
                     and was making demonstrations upon a second, when Lane, having cooked his steak
                     to a charm, transferred it to a large plate, and as he was placing it upon the
                     table, saw, to his surprise, Fairfax.
                  "Ah! Captain—what, feeding upon bread and butter, with such a steak as this
                     close by? I'm glad you've come to breakfast with me. The fare is not various,
                     but I assure you there is enough of it and good. Don't think me quite so bad
                     off; I've another plate and an extra cup and saucer for a friend."
                  Saying this, he went to the closet and placed plates and cups upon the table,
                     with a small paper of brown sugar, a rarity in the American camp at that
                     time.
                  "We Virginians do not wait much for an invitation, friend Ki, when hungry. My
                     appetite, with the ride of yesterday and last night, is rather good; and I felt
                     a prophetic announcement, at least my stomach did, that at your quarters I
                     should get something to eat, for I found none at my own."
                  "Right welcome you are, Captain, as you know. Try this piece of steak; it looks
                     as if it was tender; though, to tell the truth, I thought some time back, all
                     the cattle that came over with the pilgrims had been driven into camp, judging
                     from the toughness of the meat. This coffee and the bread you'll find
                     good."
                  "May we never taste tougher meat during the campaign, Ki," was the reply of
                     Fairfax, as he made eager demonstrations upon the steak. "I had an invitation
                     to take breakfast at head-quarters, but I declined messing with so many hungry
                     generals as I saw present. Here is something comfortable and social in a quiet
                     way."
                  "How do you like the coffee?"
                  "Excellent. I have tasted none like it since I left Virginia. How the devil
                     came you by it, I should like to know? I did not know you could buy it in camp,
                     for love or money."
                  "Brought it with me out of Boston. There is no use in acting as a spy, Captain,
                     unless you combine a little private with public matters. I found a
                     guardian angel, who was kind enough to bestow on me a few pieces of gold; and
                     another kind friend spent some of it for me, and obtained a few pounds of
                     coffee and sugar with a portion of the funds. I am sorry to say the supply will
                     not last a great while, but let it be enjoyed as long as it remains. So make
                     the most of it."
                  "Never fear about that. I'll take another cup, for I believe this is only my
                     third. As for the breakfast in general, either it is remarkably good, or my
                     appetite is in a most accommodating humor—perhaps both."
                  "A good appetite is a great blessing, let me tell you, Captain," answered Ki,
                     with his mouth half-full of provender. "I was once two days in the woods,
                     hunting after cattle that had got frightened out of the pasture by a stray
                     wolf, and I recollect, after being twenty-four hours without eating, I was
                     lucky enough to kill a skunk. It didn't taste bad, let me tell you, Captain,
                     roasted out in the woods. There's a way of taking out the scent, that leaves
                     the meat delicate and clean, particularly if the animal is young and fat."
                  "Excuse me from such a meal, Ensign, I beg of you. To tell the truth, I believe
                     you mentioned the fact to stay me from further attacks upon your meal. It came
                     too late, however, for I begin to feel cloyed already."
                  "Here, let us finish the coffee, at any rate; and, at the same time, let me
                     hope you may never be forced to eat a skunk stew."
                  Jocular as the remark was, a few months afterwards Fairfax was glad to partake
                     of a similar dish of Ki's cooking, in the celebrated march, under Arnold,
                     through the woods of Maine to Quebec.
                  "By Jove! Ki, in thinking so much about your breakfast, I forgot to mention
                     something of importance, and now, since the meal is over, I may as well mention
                     it. Washington wants you for special duty immediately. I volunteered your
                     services in conjunction with my own, for I know those iron sinews of yours will
                     endure five times the fatigue they have undergone."
                  "Wait a minute, Captain, and I am ready," said Ki, springing up with alacrity,
                     and, to the surprise of Fairfax, the Yankee Ensign poured a kettle of boiling
                     water into a huge wooden bowl, where he immersed the dishes, which he soon
                     wiped as clean as any housewife, and then carefully replaced them in the closet
                     before mentioned.
                  "You see, Captain, you Virginians have niggers enough in camp to do this
                     business for you, but we Yankees have to be our own dish washers, and its quite
                     an accomplishment, too, as well as a convenience, let me tell you, in
                     private."
                  "A most necessary accomplishment, I should think, situated as you are, Ensign.
                     I must take a few lessons, at another time, in the dish-wiping way, I am
                     satisfied with your skill as a cook, for I have acted as taster to
                     some purpose this morning.'
                  The Ensign proceeded very deliberately to brush his coat and "spruce up a
                     little," as he expressed it, gird on his sword and cock the feather in his
                     chapeau, before he exclaimed "ready!"
                  Both then proceeded to head-quarters at a rapid pace. Orders had been given to
                     the orderly to admit them at once to the room where Washington transacted the
                     business belonging to the camp. They found the Commander-in-Chief, as ever,
                     busily engaged, but he at once beckoned to the two officers to approach.
                  "Captain Fairfax, the duty which I wish you and the Ensign to undertake,
                     relates to the man that escaped in the attack that was made on Captain Burnham.
                     I have a clue as to his name, and believe it to be Watkins, you know him,
                     Ensign, I think."
                  "If he is the British sojer called Watkins, and the servant to the Major in
                     Boston, whose name I told you, sir, then I have good reason to know him."
                  "The same man. Evans, my late head servant, now in confinement, has made a full
                     confession of his guilt. It appears that he has been in the employ of this
                     Major Adair for some time, and Watkins has been the go-between, coming into our
                     camp by means of false passes. It is of great importance that he should be
                     taken, if possible, and I wish you to undertake the matter, for both of you are
                     interested in it, having been already engaged in the pursuit."
                  "Give us the orders, your Excellency, and we will have him if he is to be
                     found," said Fairfax.
                  "Yes, sir, and if he once comes in my clutches, he'll find an old grudge I bear
                     him, the rascal," and Ki's eyes flashed when he thought of the well and his
                     night's chase in Boston not a great while before.
                  The orders were now given in detail. It appeared that, at a little hut, or
                     petty farmhouse, which stood on a by-road on the edge of the woods, some
                     fifteen miles distant from camp, lived a disaffected person—a foreigner,—and
                     that at this hut, some three or four emissaries from the British camp—Watkins
                     among the rest—were in the habit of meeting at stated times, and arranging
                     their plans.—Here, too, came the tories, as they were called—men who loved gold
                     better than their country, and who would sell their friend and fee alike for a
                     few pieces of money.
                  Fairfax and Ki were instructed to take with them thirty dragoons, and, after
                     placing sentinels at proper distances, to surround the house and capture all
                     its inmates. The orders were strict as to taking the inmates in any event, and
                     to justify them in a legal point of view in the capture, a civil writ was
                     placed in the possession of Fairfax, signed by the President of the Provincial
                     Congress of Massachusetts, authorizing force to be used, if necessary.
                  Thus armed, the dragoons, with the two officers at their head, took their
                     departure about nine o'clock in the forenoon. The road they travelled branched off from the one they
                     had before passed over, when following in the track of Burnham. It had formerly
                     been a main road, but had gone into disuse in consequence of the making of a
                     new turnpike in the vicinity.
                  The road, as they progressed, grew wild and stony, overhung here and there by
                     trees that stretched above the narrow path, giving an air of gloom to the
                     journey.
                  "A capital place for an ambush, Lane," said Fairfax, "if we were in an enemy's
                     country."
                  "Yes; and that thick swamp yonder, skirted with hazel bushes and alders, would
                     be a capital place to get peppered from."
                  The words were scarcely out of his mouth, when a single gun was fired from the
                     thicket, the ball passing through the head of Ki's horse, and the animal fell
                     dead, his rider barely having time to leap off and save himself from being
                     crushed in the fall.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXV.
                  A NEST OF VILLAINS.
                  It was early sunrise. The dew drops yet hung upon the boughs and blades of
                     grass, unshaken by the wind, and undried by the sun, which was slowly ascending
                     over the distant hills. The scene was the bank of a river where the stream ran
                     placidly along, overhung by the branches of some lofty trees which skirted a
                     thick forest extending several miles along the river.
                  At the little opening of the forest, where a plat of meadow ran a short
                     distance from the hills into the stream, stood a man, evidently on the watch
                     for something which he expected to see pass down the river. In age, he was
                     about fifty, of a short, square build, with great breadth of shoulders, heavy
                     body, and thick lower limbs—a make displaying more of strength than
                     activity.
                  "Duyvel take de gang," he said, as he seated himself on the bank so as to see
                     what occurred on the stream, though out of sight himself. "Duyvel take de gang,
                     where can de barty keep himself. By de bones of Matin Swarts, but dey is long
                     about it. Here, Hartz, you run back to de house and brings mine bipe."
                  The reader will suppose that the man was addressing a human being, but it was
                     not so: it was to an ill-looking dog that he spoke, of large frame but of
                     currish breed—a fit companion of such a master. The dog evidently did not
                     comprehend what was said to him, for he raised his head, lifted his ears, and
                     stood still, looking in the face of his master, with a half wag of his
                     tail—expressing himself in his silent attitude, as far as a brute could do so,
                     "be so good as to say that over again. I didn't hear you, good master."
                  "Hartz, you rascal," said the man, in an angry tone, looking at his dog, "don't
                     you hear, duyvel's blood?—bring me mine bipe from the fire corner."
                  With a slight bark, as if to say, "now I understand you," the cur darted off
                     into the thicket, whilst his master held a converse with that shadow which
                     never leaves man—himself.
                  "I don't know but this beezeness is bad, after all the talk about guineas.
                     Subbose de rebels katch me in such beezeness, dey hang me. Dis duyvel's dog of
                     Englishman bay me twenty gold pieces to be his friendt, and bromish twenty more
                     if he katch dis rebel kapt'n—may be katch instead. Dink, dink a little, Conrad
                     Speicht. Dink some." And then he put himself in an attitude of reflection,
                     revolving in his own mind whether he had been as cunning as he supposed in
                     selling his principles for so small a number of guineas.
                  Conrad Speicht was a native of Hanover, a born subject of George II of
                     England—the monarch who loved Hanover, his birth-place, better than he did the
                     broad realms over which he ruled by the "right divine" of kings. It is well
                     known that that monarch enlisted in Hanover, and brought over to England,
                     several regiments of dragoons to aid him in extinguishing the power of the
                     young Pretender, "Prince Charley Stuart."
                  In one of those regiments Conrad Speicht enlisted at the age of nineteen, and
                     he was present at the battle of Culloden, where that "bloody butcher," as he
                     was called, the Duke of Cumberland, brother to the king, annihilated the forces
                     of the Pretender, and established permanently the Prince of Hanover upon the
                     throne of England. For his services, Speicht received the appointment of
                     Sergeant, and he afterwards joined a regiment of infantry that was sent to this
                     country to serve during the "old French" wars.
                  After the close of the war in Canada, when Wolfe, with his dying blood, sealed
                     the conquest of that portion of the French possessions in North America,
                     Speicht left the army with a small pension, and a grant of land from the
                     British government in Canada. Being so long used to an active life, and yet,
                     comparatively, a young man, he sold both pension and land, and removed to
                     Boston, where he opened a small coffee and porter-house, for the accommodation
                     of the non-commissioned officers and privates of the British government, where
                     he remained until the breaking out of troubles and the commencement of the
                     revolution.
                  Speicht never had any principles, except those contained in his pocket, and he
                     well knew that the "rebels," as the Americans were called, had but little money
                     to offer for such allies as himself. Taking sides, therefore, with the British,
                     he remained in Boston after the army assumed entire possession.
                  It was the policy of General Gage, then the royal governor of Massachusetts,
                     nominally, to know the proceedings of the rebel Congress, and also the
                     condition of the army which enclosed him on the land side from further egress
                     to the country.
                  After the battles of Lexington and Concord, it is well known that Gage drove
                     out of Boston all who were supposed to be inclined towards the side of the
                     Americans, and, among those sent into the country was Speicht, the keeper of
                     the public house, called the "Cumberland Arms." Yet, for all this, there were
                     many on the side of the Americans who did not scruple to say that Speicht was 
                        anythiag
                        anything
                      but well disposed towards the "good cause," and that the gold of Gage
                     had something to do with his pretensions in thus assuming to be on
                     the Continental side of the question.
                  To do away with this injurious belief, thus openly expressed, Speicht bought a
                     little dwelling on a retired road about half way between Boston and Providence,
                     where he lived apparently alone. At first he was watched, but there appeared to
                     be no connivance on his part with others, suspicion gradually subsided, and he
                     remained unsuspected.
                  We may as well give a little insight into the real motives and actions of
                     Speight. He was a bought spy and agent of General Gage. The
                     latter, for fifty guineas paid down, had induced him to leave Boston as one
                     friendly to the American cause, with a promise that for all secret information
                     communicated, he should receive a weekly stipend of three guineas. Speicht had
                     reached that period of life when money becomes the idol of the man who has no
                     serious attachment to bind him to any home, wife and children. He was a
                     purchased tool to the highest bidder.
                  And it was for the love of gold that Speicht risked himself on the morning we
                     have mentioned, on the bank that skirted the forest on the edge of the river.
                     What will a depraved mortal not do for gold? There was a slight
                     panting by his side, and as Speicht turned, his faithful dog had placed on the
                     sward the pipe, for which he had been sent.
                  "You are a goot dog, Hartz," said the mercenary, as he patted his currish
                     companion on the head, "a goot dog. I feet you, and you are faithful; dat's
                     better den many of de dogs in de shape of mens is. Now I will lite mine
                     bipe"
                  He took from a small pouch at his side a few leaves of tobacco, which he
                     crumbed with his fingers, and filled the bowl of his pipe; then he drew from
                     another pocket a tinderbox, and quietly striking a light, he was soon lost in
                     the enjoyment of the sedative weed.
                  It was not long before he was aroused by the bark of his dog, apparently at
                     some little distance off, and he sprang to his feet.
                  "Hartz, where you doing?—duyvel take de dog, he will not let de squirrel alone.
                     Hartz, come here, or I lick your hite, damn mighty quick."
                  And, as if to prove his words, he very deliberately broke a small tree near by,
                     and commenced stripping the leaves from the twig, so as to give Hartz a proper
                     trouncing.
                  Next came a faint whine—then a deep, melancholy howl, such as a dog gives only
                     when frightened, yet watchful. At once the expression of Speicht's countenance
                     changed. "Duyvels, tunder!" he said, "dat is someting wrong. Hartz never bark
                     dat way unless trouble be about. Be cautious and sly, Speicht, look every way;
                     de hidin place in de woods is known only to you, Speicht."
                  Getting behind a clump of trees, he looked in the direction from whence
                     proceeded the dog's melancholy howls, echoing and re-echoing up through the
                     woods. From the strip of land before described, the sound came, and there, on
                     the margin of the river, he perceived the animal endeavoring to drag from the
                     river something which looked, in the distance, like a human body.
                  "Duyvel take it, dat must be one of de gang or Hartz wouldn't try so hard. I
                     dink de feller must be dead; well, well, I must go and see; if he be dead, den
                     de body must be but out of sight, or my soul stand little chance if de Yankees
                     kotch it so near my quarters."
                  Descending as rapidly as possible, yet looking cautiously about him, Speicht
                     reached the side of the river just as Hartz had succeeded in dragging a human
                     body out of the tide, which, by the aid of his master, was soon stretched upon
                     the bank—a cold, dripping corse!
                  "Ah! it is one of de gang, and one of de best," said Speicht, as he gazed on
                     the face of the drowned man. "Poor Bolton! I thought last night dat things
                     would go wrong. Hartz, you rascal dog, stop dat noise," and he applied a touch
                     of the twig he held in his hand to the faithful animal until he yelped still
                     louder.—"What shall I do?" said the Hanoverian to himself; "bury de pody, I
                     suppose—but I have no spade—no, I will roll him away. Duyvals and
                        tunder, poor Bolton!"
                  As he lifted the body, a sight struck his eyes which caused him to drop it at
                     once. The blood had clotted on the clothes of the dead man in a manner that the
                     water in which the body floated seemed to possess no power to remove. At any
                     rate, a ball had passed through the shoulders, and the edges of the wound were
                     plain to view where the slips of clothing had been torn off, evidently in
                     anguish, by the poor victim.
                  "Duyvels, why am I so afraid of dead men, when I have killed so many dat was
                     alive on de field ob battle? Bolton was a good maus, de best of de gang. Well,
                     well, Bolton, I shall put you in anoder place—a place where all go—duyvels or
                     no duyvels."
                  As he again raised the body, he felt a hand pressed heavily on his shoulder,
                     which caused him to drop the corse quicker than before, and he turned round
                     with a face paler than it had been seen for years.
                  "Ha! ha! Speicht, you Dutchman, still at your evil practices—robbing the dead.
                     Bolton was your favorite, yet still you would look in his pocket for
                     guineas—shame on you!"
                  For a moment Speicht said nothing—but his eye glanced with perfect indignation
                     upon the face of the new comer, who returned the look with equal
                     fierceness.
                  "So, you Watkins—you come here to bully, when dis man lies dead. Ah! you
                     ruffian rogue—you dink Conrad Speicht let you kill Bolton, and say next I rob
                     him—duyvel seize you."
                  As he spoke, filled with rage, Speicht seized Watkins by the collar and threw
                     him at once on the ground. The latter was a powerful man, but the onset was so
                     sudden and unexpected that he had no time to put forth his strength, until he
                     fell heavily on the sward, beneath the sudden attack of his equally powerful
                     adversary. The gripe on the throat was strong and determined, and there these
                        two men wrestled in bitter combat,
                     beside the body of one cold forever!
                  Again arose that deep, melancholy howl of the dog—so deep and piercing that the
                     two men mutually relinquished their hold of each other, and, panting, leapt to
                     their feet.
                  Men see and read occasionally some strange lessons from the acts of the brute
                     creation. Hartz, the dog, had placed his forefeet over the face of the dead
                     man, his head bent down, and there he reposed, sending forth those agonizing
                     sounds that had completely broken the rage of the two men, who not a moment
                     before would have taken each other's lives, at an opportunity.
                  "See, Speicht; look out Hartz, he is yelling for revenge on the murderer of
                     Bolton—aye! the murderer!"
                  This he repeated in a bitter tone.
                  "Well, den," was the reply of Speicht—"who is de murderer? Why accuse me of
                     robbing de dead? Bolton here, dis dead boy, almost was my friendt—my true
                     friendt—why not say he was murderet by de rebels, at de time? Conrad Speicht
                     does not fight wid friendts—who murder Bolton, ha?"
                  "Why, Conrad," said Watkins, "you should have taken my joke, such as it was,
                     for saying what I did; I assure you there was no real joke meant. We have been
                     badly cut up in looking out for success and gold together—a perfect fatality
                     has spread over the gang. Sit down and listen, for I'm perfectly tired out. You
                     know three of us started yesterday to waylay one of the rebel general's aids,
                     so as to take his despatches, for the purpose of sending them to Gage—the least
                     sum we were to receive would have been fifty guineas, you know."
                  "Well, well, let me hear dat rest—it looks bad," said Speicht.
                  "You shall," said Watkins; "Bolton, this poor fellow lying dead here, was put
                     first upon the scent, and instead of shooting Washington's aid, the bearer of
                     the rebel dispatches, he hit Captain Marsden, the bearer of letters of
                     importance to Governor Tryon, at New York, for the purpose of being transmitted
                     to the government in England."
                  "Oh! de duyvel!" exclaimed Speicht.
                  "True, true, unfortunately too true. Capt. Marsden fell with a ball through his
                     thigh, and his horse, with the despatches, have, ere this, fallen into the
                     possession of the rebels.—But this is not all. Last night, on the waylay for
                     the aid of Washington (Captain Burnham), our leader, Sergeant Major Barford,
                     was killed by a shot through the body; poor Bolton mortally wounded, tumbled
                     into the river, and I alone am left to tell the tale. Now you have it all."
                  "But, my dear fellow—where is poor wounded Captain Marsden. Ah! did'nt I know
                     him but a little lad, wid de colors of de fift in Canada—where is he?"
                  "In the woods not far off. It is for him that I have come to seek you—he is
                     badly wounded and requires immediate assistance. Are there any of our party at
                     your place? We must be careful about spies."
                  "Go on—lead, I follow," said Speicht.—"There is but one or two of the gang in
                     the huys. Captain Marsden shall find succor in the huys. Guineas, guineas!"
                  The Hanoverian had lost his humanity in thinking of what was to be
                     his reward—yet he did not forget the dead body he left behind—singular thing!
                     "Hartz," said he to his dog, "you stay here—watch poor Bolton's body. I come
                     back."
                  The dog understood him, for he placed one paw on the body, and again commenced
                     his mournful wail! Strange thing of the beast—it was prophetic! Three days
                     after, master and dog were lumps of clay—companions of the corse upon that
                     river's bank.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVI.
                  Speicht and Watkins pursued their way for a quarter of a mile along the banks
                     of the river, and then struck into the woods. Neither of the two felt much
                     inclined for conversation, because failure, instead of success, had been in the
                     ascendant, and both knew that, with the excitability of the people of the
                     Massachusetts colonies at that period, if caught in their schemes, death would
                     be their portion.
                  "Hab we much more ways to go?" said Speicht, at length, to his companion, after
                     they had been working their way through the underbrush of the forest.
                  "Five minutes more will bring us to the spot where the Captain lies. We must
                     move careful, for it is nearly time that the cursed rebels, having got the
                     intelligence of our unfortunate attempt, should be upon us with a lot of their
                     cursed hang dogs."
                  "Yes, hang togs—very true," answered Speicht, crustily.
                  "Hang dogs? What d'ye mean, Dutchman, ha?" said Watkins, turning round and
                     looking at his companion, with a meaning glance.
                  "Mean?—ha! ha!—what I say; katch both—dey hang two togs, certain."
                  "You do not mean to say by that, that you would betray me and the wounded
                     captain, do you? Look here, Speicht—you see this pistol—it is loaded with two
                     bullets. If I thought you rascal enough to do so—if I stood under the gallows
                     with a rope around my neck, and your death by my hand
                     should be the signal of my own execution—I would shoot you down like a dog for
                     double treachery. Remember that, Speicht!"
                  "Boo! boo!" replied the Hanoverian, "you talk very well now. Lead on to de
                     Captain. I take goot care of my carkass—you do the same. If I betray, as you
                     call it, to de rebels, de rascals hang me first,—dey want opportunity to do
                     it—dat's all."
                  Watkins returned his pistol to his pocket. He was sufficiently cunning to see
                     that if his comrade was treacherous, he was not in the right place to show his
                     belief of such conduct. As they moved on, he cast eager glances around him in
                     every direction, as far as he could do so, through the thickets and forest that
                     surrounded them. A little opening in the woods, where the sun shone upon a dell
                     not quite half an acre in extent, soon presented itself.
                  "Now, Speicht, we have reached the place where the Captain is reposing, unable
                     to move on account of his wound. You know that it is impossible to keep him
                     exposed to the air, for his wound is too dangerous. Before we go a-step
                     farther, answer me honestly, is there any danger of his capture in your house,
                     if we carry him there? Speak out like a man."
                  "Look here, you Watkins," said Speicht, his anger beginning to show itself
                     terribly by the workings of his face, "one damn rascal like you, dinks every
                     one else so. Now I am British born, like yourself, and I have no furder jaw wit
                     you. Take me to de Captain, or I leave you, and you help him as you dink best.
                     I will not hear more of dis cussed tongue of yours. I was soldier of King
                     George before you see daylight. You know dat."
                  "The Hanoverian beast," muttered Watkins, when his companion had ceased
                     speaking; "but I must keep quiet, or he may show a shorter cut to the gallows
                     than a man of my inches at present has any desire for. You are a curious
                     fellow, Speight," he said aloud; "I didn't mean to get your passions quite to
                     fever heat to-day, but you seem determined, if possible, to make 'em so. Come
                     on, man, and no more grumbling; we must keep our tongues between our
                     teeth."
                  "Well, den, keep your grumblin', Watkins, and don't trouble me;—duyvels, I not
                     take it. Ha! who made dat groan?"
                  Both paused at the moment, for a deep, heavy groan, as of one in pain, saluted
                     their ears.
                  "It is the Captain!" replied Watkins, recovering himself. "We are within a
                     dozen yards of the spot where he is lying; move on quickly, Speight."
                  At the further end of the little opening or dell, a clump of dwarf hemlocks was
                     seen, and casting aside the branches, the two men found themselves in the
                     presence of the wounded Captain. He was reposing upon a blanket, unable to
                     move, from a wound in his thigh, around which had been bandaged a sash, and the
                     blood having saturated the cloth, it presented no very agreeable appearance to
                     Speicht and Watkins.
                  "Ah! Captain Marsden, my oldt frient; dis is too bad, but keep goot cheer, goot
                     cheer; you shall be safe, if Speicht can safe you"
                  "Glad to hear it, Speicht, for I am in a bad situation. A night in the woods,
                     unable to move, is not a very pleasant situation, even for an old soldier. But
                     tell me, Speicht, where do you intend to take me? You know that I am in danger,
                     and must be concealed from the rebels."
                  "Oh! I will take you safe enough to mine huys. De rebels dink me now as goot as
                     one of dem, and dey trouble me not, except the cursed failure of Watkins makes
                     dem cunning enough to come and see me. But I have a gooter place for you to
                     hide, if dey come; so never fear, Captain, never fear; you shall be safe. Here,
                     Watkins, you help me fix a litter from de branches, for to carry de
                     Captain."
                  It was not long before a rude litter was made, upon which the Captain was
                     carefully placed, and after half an hour's journey through the woods, the party
                     reached the dwelling of Speight. It was small, containing two rooms and a
                     kitchen on the ground floor, with a garret, or lumber-room, above.
                  Marsden was laid upon a bed in the sleeping room of Speicht, and the latter,
                     who, by the bye, had some experience in gun-shot wounds, and was a good nurse,
                     if not a surgeon, undid the bandage, and examined the wound. A musket ball had
                     passed through the fleshy part of the thigh, fortunately injuring no principal
                     artery; and Speicht, after looking at it a while, said, in a cheerful
                     tone:—
                  "Captain, dis is not much. Keep quiet, and you shall be able to journey in a
                     few days. You shall be back in Boston. Now I apply my salve—'Speicht's Salve,'
                     I call it."
                  "What the devil is it made of, Speicht?—nothing that will inflame, I hope, for
                     you perceive the leg is swelled."
                  "No, no," answered Speicht, as he spread his compound upon a piece of linen,
                     "nothing like dat; it take away fever, pain, and make de limb feel very nice.
                     It heal, too, very quick. I got de knowledge how to make it from an old Mohawk
                     chief, in de campaign under Amherst. It is made from de juices of certain roots
                     and herbs, gathered when do moon is in de second quarter, mixed with do grease
                     of a rattlesnake dat has had no young ones, and—"
                  "Stop, stop," said Marsden, his countenance showing disgust, as well as pain;
                     "give me no further account of the mixture, or, be it ever so healing and
                     soothing, I shall tear off the bandage. Rattlesnake grease!—Ugh!"
                  "Oh! Captain, don't be so alarm. Let me tell you dis salve has safe good many
                     soger, when the surgeon, with all his instruments, say the man die. There you
                     be, the bandage on right, and to-morrow morning you feel like new man. Now tell
                     me how you get in dis way, den I get leetle breakfast."
                  "Well, Speight, I'll give you the particulars. There is a king's ship lying in
                     Now York, ready to sail for England, and now only awaits despatches from
                     General Gage. The General selected me to be the bearer, with a six months'
                     furlough in 'merry England.' Disguised, I got out of Boston, and in the garb of
                     a countryman, with a pass, forged or genuine, I know not, had safely made my
                     way on horseback on my journey some distance, when I was shot from my horse
                     from a thicket. Without waiting to see whether I was dead or alive, a fellow
                     sprung forward, mounted my beast, which had stopped after running a short
                     distance, and rode away at full speed, carrying away my baggage, and, worse
                     than all, the important despatches for the government at home. I managed to
                     crawl into the woods in great agony, where I was found by Watkins, as you know,
                     in a sound sleep. Now, Speicht, get, if you can, a little breakfast for me, for
                     really I am weak end hungry—after that we must manage to get word into Boston
                     of my misfortune, and the loss of the despatches."
                  It was not long before Speicht had prepared some excellent tea, with a boiled
                     egg or two and toast, which much relieved the wounded officer, for he had been
                     twenty-four hours without food,
                     besides lying all night in the woods. Speicht and Watkins partook of more solid
                     fare, in the shape of some cold boiled beef and vegetables, with a bottle of
                     rum in another apartment.
                  These two men, over their food, engaged in conversation, but not in tones loud
                     enough to be heard by the officer, nor in fact did he feel any inclination to
                     listen.
                  "It's bad business all round," said Watkins. "We've got neither fame nor money,
                     and lost two of our best cronies at that—dead, gone. This last scrape will set
                     the people after us; and, to tell you the truth. I don't think you'll be very
                     safe here. I intend to do one thing before I go back to Boston, if I have to
                     risk my life ten times more than ever I did, if such a thing be possible. Yes,
                     I'll do it!" said the ruffian, with a horrid oath, striking his fist on the
                     table.
                  "Well, let us hear what de ting is, Mister duyvel Watkins."
                  "Kill that long-legged rebel, Lane. I've sworn it, and kill him I will, the
                     bloody Sampson!"
                  "Ah, ha! perhaps you get kill yourself, Mister Watkins—you get put down a well
                     again—ha! ha! That was a very fine ting, wan't it, Mister Watkins?"
                  "Look here, Speicht—I can bear sneering as well as any one, but"—he took a
                     dreadful oath—"I won't stand that, no way. If Bolton hadn't met his deserts, he
                     should have heard from me for telling the story. But he'll tell no more, that's
                     one comfort," and, as if to keep the latter expression good in his thoughts, he
                     took a hearty draught from the bottle of liquor which stood on the 
                        iable
                        table
                     .
                  "Well, Mister Watkins, since it disblease you so much, I will say noting about
                     de well. Ha! ha! But where you cotch dis rebel Sampson? Like de leetle boys wid
                     birds, you not have chance to put salt on his tail. He is wide awake as de
                     daylight."
                  "Let me alone for that. I'll come across him before many days are over, and put
                     a ball through his gizzard. I never yet was scared off my revenge, nor—"
                  "Stop! stop!" said Speicht, rising suddenly, and listening, "didn't you hear
                     Hartz barking a long way off? He is coming dis way, too. Strangers are on the
                     road, and dare is danger. Hartz is a good dog, and never barks widout a
                     meaning."
                  Watkins rushed to a closet artfully made in the wall, from which he drew a gun,
                     slung a powder horn over his shoulder, and rushed out of the back way towards a
                     clump of woods. Before he left the room, however, he said, hurriedly—
                  "Speicht, you know, for your own safety, it will not do that I should be found
                     here. Get the Captain up in the lumber-room, whilst I reconnoiter."
                  The bark of Hartz now came nearer and nearer.
                  Watkins entered the woods, and cautiously crawled through the underbrush, which
                     skirted the road, so as to perceived all that approached, yet unseen himself.
                     The dog, in the meantime, as if aware the man was on the watch, and his duty
                     was at an end, immediately started off for the house of his master.
                  "So, so," muttered Watkins, as he heard the hoofs of a body of horse
                     approaching, "you are on the scent at last, my rebel masters. Let me see who
                     you are."
                  And he proceeded deliberately to cock his gun, examine the priming, and hold
                     himself in readiness for the worst. He did not remain long in suspense, and his
                     eye glistened with demoniac lustre when he beheld approaching, on horseback,
                     the man whom he most hated—KI LANE.
                  "Eh! the rebel devils are on the scent at last—fifteen files, thirty men,
                     besides the officers. We can't stand fight at the house, that's certain. Now,
                     Watkins, do your duty, and send a ball through that tall fellow's body."
                  The party had now approached within a few rods, and the miscreant raised his
                     gun, taking deliberate aim, through the thicket, at Lane, as he came nearer.
                     Whether it was that anxiety made him nervous, or a slight rise in the ground
                     causing the horse to sheer, just as he fired, prevented the effect of his shot,
                     there was no time to determine, for he saw his enemy rise unharmed, draw his
                     sword, and rush towards the woods where he was concealed.
                  "Captain Fairfax," said Ki, in a voice of thunder, "be so good as to let half a
                     dozen men dismount, and follow me. The house is full in sight from the turn of
                     the road yonder, and it had better be surrounded as quick as possible. The
                     rascals are aware that we are after them. Follow me, men."
                  In the meantime, Watkins had retired deeper into the woods, loading his gun as
                     he went, exclaiming, "Damn the fellow, I believe he has more lives than a cat,
                     but I'll not miss him next time."
                  Ki and his companions examined the wood thoroughly, while Fairfax, at full
                     trot. with the rest of the dragoons, rode for the house of Speicht.
                  "Confound the rogue!" said Ki. "He fired one shot, and then made good his
                     retreat. There could have been but one, or we should have routed the villains
                     out of the swamp. Come, lads, he has probably run for the house, and we may as
                     well follow. This way, boys."
                  He had not got the last word fairly from his mouth, when he heard the click of
                     a gunlock, and the hammer fell harmlessly on the pan.
                  On a little knoll, protected from the approach of Ki and his comrades by a
                     broad, miry swamp, stood Watkins, his countenance filled with rage.
                  "Ah! you cursed, long-legged rebel! you've escaped again, because I've lost the
                     flint of my gun in the bushes. But I'll have you yet, I'll have you yet.
                     Remember Boston, villain!" Shaking his fist menacingly, he darted deeper into
                     the woods, and was instantly out of sight.
                  "After him, lads! not through the swamp, but make a circuit, and we may head
                     him off. Washington will give ten guineas for him, dead or alive. If he
                     resists, kill the dog."
                  But Watkins was not to be taken. He had too much the start, and to avoid the
                     swamp, which was formed of a thick, black, oozy mud, some four or five feet
                     deep, several minutes passed before the party reached the hard ground from
                     whence Watkins had fired at Lane.
                  The latter felt a more than ordinary desire to capture the noted spy, and he
                     soon separated from his companions, in the eagerness of his pursuit. Not a
                     thicket but he examined, nor a clump of bushes, matted with wild vines, but he
                     thrust through with his sword, determined, if possible, that Watkins should not
                     escape his vigilance in the search, this time.
                  All was in vain. Watkins, better acquainted with the localities, was far out of
                     reach; nor did he intend to put himself in further danger, for, having lost the
                     flint of his gun, his chief defence was taken away, and in flight rested his
                     safety.
                  At length Ki began to think further search 
                        ou
                        on
                      his own part useless, and when he endeavored to retrace his steps, he
                     found, much to his chagrin, he had lost his way in the forest. He hallooed
                     repeatedly for his comrades, but no reply came, and saving the shrill scream of
                     the blue jay, and the cawing of some solitary crow, as he winged his way
                     through the distant sky, all was silent.
                  Suddenly two or three far-off shots were heard. A short time after, a thick,
                     heavy smoke arose in the direction from which the sounds had come. Then a
                     bright flame shot up in the sky, and towards that spot Ki rapidly made his
                     way.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVII.
                  When Ki Lane plunged into the woods, Captain Fairfax, with most of the
                     dragoons, hastened at full gallop along the road to the direction of the house
                     of Speicht, and not more than two minutes elapsed before they reached and
                     surrounded it. We have mentioned that it stood back from the road a little
                     distance, and was partially concealed by some untrimmed trees and bushes that
                     had been purposely allowed to grow around the dwelling.
                  Fairfax, dismounting, went up to the door, which he found fastened, and knocked
                     heavily against it with his sword handle. A dog inside growled fiercely, then a
                     voice was heard:
                  "Duyvels—don't you make such a noise, Hartz,—down, down, you tog, and stop your
                     jaw." A kick rattled against the dog's ribs, and he changed his tone to a howl
                     of pain.
                  "Open," said Fairfax, "open the door within, or I shall break it down."
                  "For vat shall I open? Dis is mine house, mine broperty—for vat shall I open? I
                     keep no tavern," was the reply of Speicht.
                  "Open to an officer of the Continental army, acting under the orders of the
                     Commander-in-Chief."
                  "For vat shall I open! I have as much right to keep mine house shut and take
                     care of mine broperty as the Commander-in-Chief. You hear dat?"
                  "I shall bandy words with you no longer. Bring that log of wood this way, lads,
                     and beat in the door; keep a good watch, sentinels, and see that no one escapes
                     from any part of the house.
                  Two of the dragoons seized upon the heavy piece of wood, and were about
                     applying it as a battering ram, when the door opened, and Speicht himself stood
                     before them. The delay had given him time to secrete the wounded British
                     captain in the loft, and remove the ladder, which was all he wanted.
                  "Sir," said the Hanoverian to Fairfax, in an assumed, humble tone, "an old man
                     like me, dat lives peaceably in dese times of trouble must be careful about
                     himself. Walk in, sir, and tell me for what I hab dis pleasure."
                  Fairfax entered, followed by a couple of the dragoons, and glanced
                     scrutinizingly around, but there were no indications of any one having been in
                     the place, save its owner.
                  "Men, search the other rooms thoroughly. Your name is Conrad Speicht, I think,"
                     said Fairfax, as he glanced at a paper he held in his hand.
                  "Yes—dat is mine name."
                  "Formerly in the king's service."
                  "Tirty years, man and boy, I serve King George."
                  "You kept, not long ago, a tavern, called the 'Cumberland Arms,' in Boston, I
                     believe?"
                  "All very drew—I keep such tavern, but General Gage dink I was so much friend
                     of dis country, dat he send me out of Boston like tog."
                  "You are accused in this paper of being anything but friendly to the colonies.
                     You are still further accused of holding private communications with the enemy
                     in Boston, and harboring their spies in this very dwelling. These charges are
                     very serious, Speicht."
                  "Mine Got!" replied the Hanoverian, with well affected astonishment, "who say
                     dat? Some rogue and tief. Why, here, sir, read dat," and he drew from his
                     pocket a soiled piece of paper, which he handed to Fairfax—"read dat. It give
                     me permission from de head men of dis colony, to stay in mine house free, as a
                     goot peaceable man—vat does no harm, but mind my own peezeness."
                  It was a paper signed by the Secretary of the Provincial Congress, giving
                     Speicht permission to remain within the American lines, so long as he conducted
                     himself with propriety as a friend of the American cause.
                  "It would be better for you not to possess such a paper, Speicht, if any of the
                     charges against you are true. Correspondence with the enemy and harboring
                        spies, are punishable with death! When you received this paper,
                     you took an oath of allegiance to the colonies. You knew the consequences that
                     would follow acts of opposition to the country you swore to support.
                  "Yes; but what acts have I done? Duyvels one. No, no! Conrad Speicht is a
                     peaceable man, and don't meddle any more with nobody, kings or colonies. But
                     what you do with me?"
                  He was evidently not so cool as at first about his situation.
                  "My orders are imperative to take you,
                     with all others that I may find in or about your dwelling, to head-quarters at
                     Cambridge. Well, lads," continued Fairfax, as the dragoons returned, who had
                     been searching the house, "do you find any one about the premises?"
                  "No one, sir," was the reply.
                  'You know a soldier by the name of Watkins, Speicht, belonging to one of his
                     majesty's regiments in Boston, and now or lately in this vicinity?"
                  "Watkins, Watkins," said Speicht, as if endeavoring to remember, "Oh, yes! yes!
                     I knew the rascal in Boston. He was one regular hang tog; he owe me, let me
                     see, five poundts and some odd shillings, for flip and poonch. A great rascal,
                     dat Watkins. You know him, sir? Oh, great rogue!"
                  "Yes, and an associate of rogues, I fear. Now listen, Speicht. He has been in
                     this house within two days. and I suspect, within an hour. If you hope for
                     safety, answer me plainly—where is he?"
                  "Where is he? Why, goot mister officer, ask me where is de duyvel himself. What
                     I to do wid Watkins here? No!" and his countenance assumed a harsh and fierce
                     expression, "I know notting of Watkins; I see him some six monts ago—not
                     less."
                  "Did you hear a gun fire in the direction of the woods, a little while
                     since?"
                  "Goon fire? oh, goons fire every day, people hunt all de while, shoot de
                     partridge, rabbit, quail, fox—oh! goons fire somewhere all day!—yes, I hears
                     dem all day, sometimes."
                  "And do the hunters, Speicht, shoot at Continental officers so near their own
                     camp, or do you call human beings game? No, no, Speicht, the hunter that fired
                     that gun took aim at a brother officer of mine, but he was not hit, no, not he,
                     and he is now on the trail of your associate, Watkins—Watkins, the knave and
                     spy, for whom the halter has already been made."
                  Speicht cast a hurried glance around, as if to know exactly his position in
                     case of the worst. He was naturally a bold man, but he felt that he was in
                     danger—not danger of that kind which a man 
                        expeeiences
                        experiences
                      on the battlefield, with a just cause before him, but with a thought
                     of the gibbet and the gallows, where disgrace awaits the memory of the victim,
                     as well as death itself.
                  "Watkins, Watkins," repeated Speicht; "what! shall one innocent man be put to
                     danger and trouble for a man—rogue, I not see many monts? Dis is poorer justice
                     den King George give, I dink. I am innocent man, very
                     innocent."
                  A drop of blood!—another!—a third! fell from the rough ceiling and clotted at
                     the feet of Fairfax. The wounded British officer in the loft had swooned away
                     when Speicht conveyed him, hurriedly and roughly, up the ladder for safety, and
                     the bandage becoming unloosed, blood flowed from the wound, until it found its
                     way through the board ceiling. Fairfax, glancing upward from where the drops
                     came, exclaimed, angrily:
                  "Very innocent, Mr. Speicht, very innocent. This blood, I suppose, drips from
                     some of the game, partridges, quails, and, rabbits you spoke of, brought in by
                     the hunters, I 'suppose.' Dragoons, seize that ladder, and enter
                     the loft. Here is something wrong."
                  Speicht now felt his danger, and, being a desperate man, his mind was instantly
                     made up as to his own movements. The ladder was lying between him and the
                     closet which contained the fire-arms, where Watkins had taken his gun the time
                     that he left the cottage, as before related. Speicht knew that his own musket
                     was ready loaded, and the bayonet fixed. With such a weapon in his hand, being
                     an old soldier, he felt assured that there was at least a chance of escape. The
                     two dragoons caught hold of the ladder to raise it, when he also seized the
                     other end, exclaiming:
                  "What right you to rob me, ha! My property be up in dat loft—mine provisions,
                     mine clothes. Duyvels, you shall not do so—no, no!"
                  A struggle ensued for the ladder, and Fairfax, rushing forward, took hold of
                     Speicht to force him away. Notwithstanding that there were thirty years
                     disparity in their ages, the square burly form of Speicht was too powerful for
                     the young officer
                  A dragoon, perceiving the struggle from the outside, hastily entered, and
                     seizing Speicht by the throat, a fierce encounter took place. It should be
                     remembered two of Fairfax's men were endeavoring, in the meanwhile, to make
                     their way to the loft, having raised the ladder
                  A combatant now interfered, whose disposition to do so heretofore, had extended
                     only to making a noise, This combatant was Hartz, the dog of Speicht. Whether
                     he thought that, as long as his master had only one person to contend with,
                     fair play should induce him to keep aloof, or not, better judges than we are of
                     animal instinct must decide. But no sooner had the dragoon, who came to the aid
                     of Fairfax, taken hold of Speight by the throat, than Hartz jumped forward,
                     and, seizing the soldier by the leg, made his teeth meet in the flesh.
                  Speicht, feeling the grip released, with a powerful effort, cast off both his
                     opponents, and, springing to the closet, obtained his gun, Turning, he made his
                     way to the back door, striking desperately, right and left, with his bayonet as
                     he proceeded. Bursting through the passage-way, he found himself in the open
                     air, and, with a quickness, almost superhuman, after the struggle he had made,
                     he levelled the gun and fired The ball passed through the head of one of the
                     dragoons, who fell upon the floor of the cottage like a heavy clod.
                  A cry of vengeance rose from his companions, who darted out in pursuit, headed
                     by Fairfax. The ladder, in falling, struck the fire-place, raking out a few
                     brands, which, coming in contact with a bundle of tow that lay not far off, the
                     interior of the wooden dwelling was soon in flames, preventing further ingress,
                     if sought for.
                  Not a thought, however, was bestowed upon the burning dwelling, so eager were
                     the soldiers in pursuit of Speicht.
                  "Shoot him down like a dog, men—shoot him down at once," exclaimed Fairfax as
                     he aimed at the retreating Speicht, who was running eagerly towards the
                     woods—his only chance of shelter and safety. He stumbled and fell as the
                     dragoons fired, and the balls passed harmlessly over his head. He leapt up—he
                     reached the forest, without his trusty musket, it is true—but he was safe!
                  No, no—not so! Danger was before him, final and fatal. Not three feet from him,
                     in the woody path, stood a figure that forbade further progress. There was no
                     mistaking that man of iron frame and sinew, though Speicht had heard only of
                     him by name through Watkins; but the man whose stature was a head and shoulders
                     taller than a grenadier, could be no other than KI LANE.
                  "It is de fates—my hour is gome. I knew dat it could not be far off. Last night
                     I dreamt of my dead mudder—it was de sign, de sign. I'm your bris'ner—I fite
                     not wid fate. Take me—hang me—I'm ready."
                  For a little space, Lane, who heard partially what the Hanoverian muttered, and
                     knowing nothing of what had occurred, made no effort to secure him. True he had
                     heard shots fired, and beheld a smoke and blaze above the forest, but he was
                     not acquainted with the causes.
                  "Take me," repeated Speicht, as he stood motionless, his head bent over his
                     breast; "take me. I surrender to a man. Dink of dat—to a man; I know you."
                  Lane simply placed his hand upon his shoulder, and at the same time, half a
                     dozen of the dragoons broke through the woods, giving a shout of exultation as
                     they beheld Speicht a prisoner in the power of Ensign Lane. A brief colloquy,
                     and the events of the last half hour were made known to Ki.
                  Speicht's hands were tied behind him, and he was led in the direction of the
                     open clearing where stood the house. As the smoke began to arise when they
                     neared the opening, Speicht exclaimed—
                  "What is dat?"
                  "Your dwelling, I guess," was the careless reply of one of the men; "it ought
                     to be burnt up, anyhow."
                  There was an instant change in the countenance of Speight: from indifference it
                     assumed an aspect of horror, as he looked at the man from whom he had received
                     the reply.
                  "Goot heavens! you say dat! Run, run, Captain Lane," he said, addressing the
                     Ensign, "in de loft is one British Captain, wounded. He be burnt up! He be
                     burnt up. Got safe you, Captain Marsden! Got safe you!"
                  "Captain Marsden, of the Fifth?" eagerly inquired Ki.
                  "Yes, Captain Marsden, of the Fifth. Poor man, poor man—I shall soon follow
                     him."
                  It was a brief space of time that Ki spent in reaching the place of
                     conflagration from the woods. Without stopping to exchange a syllable with any
                     of the soldiers standing at some little distance, and indifferently watching
                     the fire—he paused not until he stood before the entrance of the dwelling, from
                     which the flames ascending, swept and covered the whole roof almost in one
                     entire blaze.—Through an upper window a ghastly face was seen, endeavoring to
                     break the sash. It was the face of Captain Marsden!
                  "Fairfax, Fairfax—for God's sake, come this way. Here is a human being, who, in
                     an instant more, will be consumed. Let us save him!"
                  Fairfax ran towards Ki, the moment he heard his voice, and the same dreadful
                     sight met his gaze. Up rushed the flames, flickering and flickering in the
                     wind, now concealing, now displaying, the features of him they would
                     consume.
                  "There is but one way, Fairfax," said Ki, much excited, "and we have but half a
                     moment to lose, or he is gone. Here, plant yourself firmly on my shoulders—they
                     are strong enough to bear you: so, so—that's right. Nerve yourself, and the
                     poor Captain is safe."
                  It takes longer time to describe events, in many instances, than the space of
                     their occurrence. Ki bent himself, for Fairfax to brace his feet upon his
                     shoulders. This done, he raised himself up to his full height beneath the
                     window, firmly grasping Fairfax by both legs—his enormous strength giving as
                     well as receiving weight. To burst open the window, and drag out the wounded
                     Captain, was short work for Fairfax. Such occasions, like the actions of
                     lunatics, rendering a man's strength almost beyond imagination. In this case
                     Captain Marsden was safely removed, and placed upon the sward, in a state of
                     helplessness.
                  The escape was, indeed, a narrow one for him. He was awakened by the crackling
                     of the flames from his swoon, to find that death, in its most horrid
                     form—fire—was rapidly gathering around him. Nerved by his danger, he approached
                     the window, to see, apparently, no chance of rescue. The exclamation of
                     Speicht, in the presence of Ki, alone saved him. His strength gave way when he
                     found himself out of danger, and he was no longer a conscious being.
                  The duties of the dragoons were now over, and a few blasts of the trumpet
                     summoned them together, as they prepared to take their way with the wounded
                     officer and Speicht, their prisoner, to the camp at Cambridge. Captain Marsden
                     was placed upon a litter, but his groans were too agonizing, and his pains too
                     evident to bear him far. At the first farm house he was left, with proper
                     attendance, and the balance of the company reached head-quarters about
                     sundown.
                  The report of proceedings from Captain Fairfax was brief and decisive. A
                     court-martial, for the trial of Speicht, was immediately summoned. Several
                     members of the Provincial Congress gave evidence as to the permission given to
                     Speicht to remain within the lines; his oath of allegiance was produced, and,
                     to crown all, Evans, villain as he was, testified clearly that Speicht had been
                     the agent for distributing forged passes to many going in and
                     coming out of Boston. Speicht made no defence—he would not make any. Sentence
                     of death was pronounced, and the Provost Marshal received orders for his
                     execution the next morning, half an hour after sunrise. He was conveyed under
                        guard to his last night's resting
                     place amid the living, accompanied by one friend—his dog HARTZ!
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVIII.
                  THE EXECUTION OF SPEICHT.
                  Although fatigued with the exertion of the day, Ki slept but little. Dreams of
                     the gibbet and the gallows under which peered the countenance of Speicht, the
                     Hanoverian, in the most horrid contortions, and now and then, a skeleton dog
                     passed by, from whose fleshless jaws came a dismal howl, making his rest
                     hideous. Ki awoke from one of these dreamy phantasies, but the cold
                     perspiration arose on his brow, as he exclaimed, "Surely that comes from no
                     dream."
                  The deep bay of a dog came distinctly through the air; it was a mournful sound
                     for the hour. It was the howling of the Hanoverian's dog, seemingly as if the
                     animal was fully aware of his master's approaching fate, and thus bewailed
                     it.
                  "It is useless for me to try to sleep," said Ki, springing from his cot, "I may
                     as well dress myself at once."
                  Putting on his garments, he left his quarters, though all without was pitchy
                     dark The nearest sentinel informed him that the guard had been relieved but a
                     short time, and that the hour was a little past two in the morning. He took his
                     way towards the dwelling in which Speicht was confined. He found no difficulty
                     in obtaining admittance to the prisoner, the officer of the guard belonging to
                     his own company.
                  Speicht, his feet and wrists ironed, was sitting in one corner of the room, his
                     head thrown back, but his eyes unclosed. On a table near him was a candle and a
                     book open. At the extremity of the room was a Corporal, walking backwards and
                     forwards, who had been detailed to watch the prisoner, and prevent
                     self-violence on his person. Both the civil and military authorities were
                     anxious in Speicht's case, to make an example, it being the first detection of
                     actual correspondence and forgery of passes.
                  Ki stood for a moment silent, after entering, and then went up to the prisoner,
                     whom he touched lightly on the shoulder. The latter started up instantly, and,
                     seeing who it was, made an involuntary effort to extend his hand, but the irons
                     prevented him.
                  "Ah! I forget de irons. Dank you for dis visit. Sit down, I have some talk to
                     say—my last talk, I know."
                  Ki drew a chair, and sat down by the prisoner. Speicht made a motion as if he
                     wished the sentinel to withdraw.
                  "Watson," said the Ensign, "you can step outside. I will keep watch. He has
                     something to confide to me," he continued, in a lower tone.
                  The Corporal at once withdrew.
                  "Did you ever dink about death?" said Speicht, looking Lane full in the face,
                     his eyes sparkling with singular brilliancy, but his voice firm and bold.
                  "I cannot say that I ever have, as much as I ought to. It's what the best of us
                     put off to the last."
                  "Death is a curious ting, a curious ting. I shall soon know what comes, when
                     dat is over. De sentinel bring me dis book—see, you read it mooch in dis
                     country."
                  Ki took up the book, it was the BIBLE.
                  "Yes, Speicht, here in New England, it is what we first read out of, after the
                     spelling book. I used to know more of it than I do now, and I say it to my
                     shame. Many a chapter I learned by heart when a boy. Read it, Speicht—it will
                     do you good now."
                  Speicht turned over the leaves of the book as well as his manacled limbs would
                     allow, and occasionally read a verse in a half aloud tone, almost
                     unintelligible to Ki, mingled as the reading was with the broken English of the
                     prisoner. At length he stopped.
                  "You dink dis is God's word?" he said to Ki.
                  "I never think about it: I feel that it is," was the
                     quick answer.
                  "Well, dat is right. One must feel goot, better, who dinks so."
                  The Hanoverian shuddered, as if the mists of infidelity yet cast their shadows
                     over an unrepentant heart.
                  "I have seen people die, who believed in that volume, as calmly and quietly as
                     a little child goes to sleep. Who would not believe in it?"
                  The elevation of Ki's voice, and the firmness with which he spoke, caused
                     Speicht to glance anxiously from the still open volume up to Ki's face.
                  "Will you read me where you dink best from the book? Someting fit for
                        now—you understand my mean."
                  Ki lifted up the sacred volume, and, having selected what he considered an
                     appropiate chapter, he commenced reading, slowly and distinctly.
                  The prisoner bent his head upon his hands, resting them upon the table, so that
                     his face was concealed. A slight quivering was perceptible, as Ki read on.
                  Was it strange?—the prisoner had but a few hours to live: he was to pass from
                     existence, without a friend near him.—The warning, how short!
                  The bravest heart, the most iron nerves, feel emotion at the approach of death,
                     when the grim tyrant is within an hour's certain march. Speicht, naturally, was
                     one of the boldest of men, but now his courage was to be tried by a final test.
                     He was to die on the gallows; die a criminal; die like a dog. The animal
                     courage, the physical fortitude, was to give way before the terrors of the
                     mind. The unknown hereafter was before him—to him, gloomily unknown!
                  When Ki finished reading, there was dead silence in the room. From the outside
                     might have been heard the faint footfall of the sentinel, as he "paced his
                     lonely round," or the distant crowing of some cock awakened too early from his
                     rest. Speicht at length lifted his head—slowly, and he sat erect.
                  "De words of dat book is goot. I shall belief, my mudder belief, and she was a
                     goot woman."
                  "Is your mother dead?" asked Ki.
                  "Yes—great long while ago—before I leave Hanover to follow King George."
                  "Have you no brothers or sisters living across the water?"
                  "No—all alone, all alone, Conrad Speicht is alone. And it is good—for what
                     should I wish dem alive to hear how der brudder die? Now I feel better—dat book
                     you read make me feel better. Shut it up; I would say-something to you.
                  Ki closed the book and drew nearer to the prisoner, who seemed prepared to make
                     some private disclosure.
                  "I have killed men," he said, "but it was in battle, in the fielt—fair
                     fight;—no, I was no murderer. But yesterday I kill a man, the dragoon—it
                     trouble me. You know him, ha?"
                  "Yes, I knew him well; he belonged to my company. A fine, honest, young man—the
                     only son of a widowed mother."
                  "Ah! den it was bad, very bad. His mudder poor, ha?"
                  "Yes, quite so."
                  "Well, den, I repent all I can. If I take de life from her son, she shall have
                     something from me. Now, hear what I say. There is a big tree—oak tree—dat stand
                     to de left of mine house—de house dat was mine. You take de line
                     from dat tree, straight to a stone fence dat run back from de house—you
                     understand?"
                  "I remember the tree and the wall."
                  "You will see in dat wall a stone—on dat stone a scratch; you would not see it
                     but you look: you take from de fence dat stone, and you will see a little
                     place: in dat place is a bag; in dat bag you will see some four or five hundred
                     gold guineas—oh, yes, guineas! I love gold mooch, once; I have no reason to
                     love gold more. You understand?"
                  "Yes, I do; go on."
                  "No, I love gold no more. Dat book I love best." He said this in a grave tone,
                     as he pointed towards the Bible. "Well, dat money you take and give to de
                     mudder of de dragoon I kill yesterday. You will do this for one dying man? It
                     is mine money."
                  "I will relate the whole affair to the Commander-in-Chief, and there can be no
                     doubt of the dragoon's parent receiving the money, though confiscated to the
                     use of the colonies."
                  "Mine house and land is but little worth; let the colonies take dat. Now
                     something for you." He drew from his pocket an old-fashioned gold watch, but of
                     costly manufacture for the times. "Take dat—it will do you no harm, if it did
                     once be mine. I save the life of one French officer on Culloden field, and he
                     give me dat. Take it—I have a right to bestow mine own."
                  Ki took the watch rather than dispute with the poor wretch at such a time, and
                     signified his acquiescence in accepting the present, though intending to
                     deliver it up to the Court of Confiscation after the execution of Speicht.
                  "Have you no other request to make? Nothing to say about your
                     confederates?—those who have led you into this fatal pit?"
                  "Do you dink Conrad Speicht to be twice one rogue, ha?"
                  "Perhaps your life might be spared, if the truth was fully told."
                  "Duyvels, don't ask me dat. Dat would be revenge. My time is come—I will betray
                     noting, I will ask noting. I am ready to die; I betray no one."
                  Then arose the deep howl of Hartz, filling the room with his terrible, yet
                     mournful, cry, for he had been confined on the outside beneath the window.
                  "Yes, yes," said Speicht, eagerly, "I ask one ting more—let me see mine tog—let
                     him stay wid me until de hour come. Poor Hartz,—I hab one frient left, tog as
                     he be. Let me see Hartz, I beg hard."
                  Ki could not refuse the request, and, going to the door, he asked the corporal
                     to unfasten the animal, and admit him once more to see a master whose career
                     was soon to be over.
                  At the signal, the corporal unloosed the faithful beast, and he came bounding
                     in with all the eagerness of hope and delight to greet his master. Onward to
                     the corner he rushed, and his deep growl, now changed to one of joy, when he
                     buried his muzzle in his master's arms, brought, unconsciously, tears in the
                     eyes of Ki, as he saw and heard him.
                  "Ah! Hartz, good tog, Hartz. When your master confine, you want to see him
                     mooch. Not like human peoples dat want to see his friends less when in de
                     prison. See, Hartz, I can't take holt of you as I like. Dese irons on de wrist
                     stop dat."
                  The faithful animal bit the irons, and growled fiercely.
                  "No, no, Hartz. You bite foolish, goot tog. You cannot bite dis off. You
                     recollect, goot tog, when I buy you so high, one pup; you no recollect, goot
                     tog?"
                  Speicht seemed to forget, in the company of the animal he loved so well, that
                     his life was so near its close, and he fondled with him renewed favor.
                     Suddenly, he cast him off, and motioned him to rest at his feet.
                  "Lie down, tog! lie down!—your master is near his endt. You not know dat,
                     Hartz; if you did, I dink your heart break, because I know you love me. Mans
                     never love like you—no, not mans, never."
                  Hartz shook his ears, and opened his large eyes in the face of his master; then
                     sharply glanced round at Ki, and growled.
                  "No, Hartz; not bark at him; he is my friendt now, next to you. He shall be
                     your friendt; he shall keep you; he shall be your master, Hartz."
                  "I promise to protect him, Speicht, as faithfully as if I had reared him!" was
                     the exclamation of Ki, when Speicht addressed his dog.
                  'There, Hartz, you have a good master, an honest one—so be true, goot tog,—be
                     faithful when I am gone," and he sat down in his chair, resting his hands upon
                     the table, the dog crouching at his feet In this condition Speicht reposed for
                     some time—if the truth could be really told, perhaps he was in
                        prayer.
                  
                  Ki went to the window and looked out. A faint streak of light glimmered in the
                     east. The trees around the house in which the prisoner was confined began to
                     show the outlines of their limbs. The hills grew more and more distinct in the
                     light. It was sunrise. Then broke a long roll throughout the camp—the reveille was beating, summoning the soldier to his
                     duty.
                  Speicht heard the sound of the drums, for he rose at once to his feet, and said
                     to Ki:
                  "Dat sound is familiar to me. I heard it in King George's service for tirty
                     years."
                  "I doubt it not, old soldier. You have learned it, I presume, after a night's
                     repose on many a well-fought field."
                  Ki said this in as cheerful a tone as possible to Speicht, for that drum-beat
                     bespoke the commencement of the prisoner's last half hour of life.
                  "Yes, yes—at Culloden, at Minden, at Ticonderoga, and de Heights of Abraham.
                     But dese are all gone. I go now myself. My last reveille has beat. Well, I'm ready—yes, I'm ready."
                  Some further conversation ensued between Ki and his prisoner, which was
                     interrupted by the entrance of the Sergeant of the Guard, followed by a camp
                     servant bearing a coffee pot and a tray of freshly-cooked victuals,*
                        which were placed upon the table before the prisoner.
                  
                     
                     *It is somewhat strange that prisoners, under sentence of death by Court
                        Martial, should be furnished with the mockery of a meal before execution.
                        Yet such is the case.
                  
                  "You see," said Speicht, turning to Ki, and pointing at the same time to his
                     meal, "I am treat very well. I once hear a spy, a Frenchman, caught by our
                     troops in Flanders, who was sentenced to hang in one hour, ask for his dinner,
                     and say, 'I will not hang on empty stomach.' Nor will I; here, Hartz, you shall
                     eat wid me my last breakfast. Poor tog! you shall have something from my
                     hand—de last ting I can give."
                  Ki could no longer look on; he turned aside. Speicht deliberately ate his
                     breakfast, praising the steak and coffee to the Corporal, who stood near, and
                     now and then casting his dog a large morsel of the meat, who, all unconscious,
                     devoured his food with a gusto, that indicated his pleasure as well as surprise
                     at the superiority of the meal, so seldom bestowed in such profusion. His
                     master fondled him from time to time, with emotion, ere his meal was
                     concluded.
                  Now came the heavy roll of a drum. Nearer and nearer it approached, until the
                     fife mingled its shrill notes with the tramp of soldiery. Then was heard the
                     word of the officer in command, "Halt!" and the sound of the music ceased in
                     front of the dwelling.
                  The Provost Marshall of the army entered, bearing in his hand a paper, followed
                     by several non-commissioned officers. He looked around, and there was a dead
                     pause, until broken by the name:—
                  "Conrad Speicht."
                  "Dat is my name."
                  "Conrad Speicht, stand forth, and hear read the warrant for your
                     execution."
                  The prisoner stepped forth and heard the death warrant read, with but a slight
                     movement of the muscles of face or limb. When the Provost Marshall concluded,
                     he said:—
                  "Well, I'm ready. Sir, you will go see me hang?" he said, entreatingly to
                     Ki—"you and Hartz, my tog. Don't tink me rude when I say 'you and my tog;' I
                     mean it wid honest heart."
                  "I will," answered Ki, striving to conceal his feelings.
                  The prisoner was taken into an adjoining room, and a loose garment, of light
                     texture, thrown over his dress. With a bold step, his arms pinioned behind him,
                     (the iron manacles having been removed from his limbs,) he took his place in
                     the centre of the corps of soldiers. The music struck up a gloomy tune, and
                     marching onward with slow steps, the procession shortly reached the place of
                     execution.
                  The gallows was formed of two trees in their natural state. From the crotch of
                     each, so as to rest across, a rail extended, and from the centre of the bar
                     hung a rope and slip-noose. The prisoner calmly advanced by the side of the
                     Provost Marshall, and took his stand beneath the rope. The soldiers, with fixed
                     bayonets, 
                        clossd
                        closed
                      around the gallows, in obedience to orders.
                  But, Hartz, the dog Hartz, the animal—where was he? By the side of
                     his master. He could not be called away. Ki advanced to receive him, in
                     conformity to his promise made to Speicht.
                  "I dank you for de last time," said the doomed man, "but now I ask one ting
                     more. Will you bromise?"
                  "I do," said Ki, solemnly.
                  "Den I cannot bear to leave dis faitful beast. Shoot him when I die, bury
                        him wid me. You bromise?"
                  "I do."
                  The noose was placed around the neck of Speicht, the signal given, and in a
                     moment, he dangled in the air, a senseless corse. When the shades of night
                     fell, master and dog both rested in one grave! Ki had fulfilled his
                     promise.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIX.
                  President Hancock had left the room, where the song, the dance and the laugh
                     were merrily going on, for his library, in company with several delegates in
                     Congress, to converse upon serious matters*
                      Although the entertainment given by the President of Congress was
                     ostensibly one of mere pleasure, it had deeper objects in view—and was mainly
                     political. At the hospitable mansion of Mr. Hancock, were gathered at this
                     stage of the revolution the most influential of all sides, and a general and
                     free expression of opinion was given, for the line had not yet been so
                     distinctly drawn, as when a year afterwards the Declaration of Independence
                     took place, and brother took up arms against brother in all the madness of
                     civil 
                        fued
                        feud
                      and relentless war.
                  
                     
                     *See Chapter Third.
                  
                  Whilst Mr. Hancock and his brother patriots were busily engaged discussing one
                     of those measures of finance, which at the commencement of the revolution, when
                     the issuing of paper money seemed so simple in its action, but fatal in its
                     results, another patriot but of a different stamp, one little skilled in the
                     mystery of arranging government, yet whose heart breathed with the warmest
                     devotions for his country, stood opposite the house, hearing the music and
                     regarding the lights, which filled the room with somewhat of astonishment.
                  "This is President Hancock's house, they tell me, but I can't see what so much
                     fiddling, dancing and lighting up means. The good lady, where Harry has his
                     quarters, told me that I would find him at the President's house, but I don't
                     know what to make of it. I've got despatches for both him and Mr. Hancock to be
                     delivered as quick as possible. I may as well inquire."
                  The wide hall door, in the centre of the mansion, was open, and a brilliant
                     light shone in the entry. Passing from room to room were gay couples, and Ki
                     Lane, (for our readers may have recognized him as the person,) forgot his
                     intention of asking of the servant in livery, who stood on the door-steps to
                     usher in company, whether Captain Burnham was among the guests, but he
                     carefully surveyed the flitting couples passing across the interior. An officer
                     and lady passed—one look was sufficient to show that the gentleman was no other
                     than Harry Burnham. He rushed forward, calling him by name, when the servant
                     bade him stop, politely asking him who he was, and if he was an invited
                     guest.
                  "No, I'm not," answered Ki, looking in the direction in which Harry and the
                     young lady had disappeared.
                  "Then I'm sorry to say, sir, that you cannot be admitted."
                  "Is not Harry Burnham here?"
                  "Really, sir, I can't repeat the names of all present. I think it very probable
                     if he belongs to Philadelphia."
                  "Well, he don't belong to Philadelphia. He's from the Commander-in-Chief before
                     Boston, and arrived to-day, I'm told."
                  "There was an officer with despatches to the President, I know, that came
                     to-day. He is within."
                  "It is Captain Burnham. I want to see him immediately."
                  "Perhaps, sir, to-morrow will do as well. He is now engaged in the ball-room,
                     the officer you speak of."
                  "Well, if that's the case, can't I see President Hancock?"
                  "Why, sir, that is impossible," answered the servant, rather coolly this time.
                     "He is too much engaged to be disturbed now by trifling matters."
                  "Be it so, then," said Ki, as be turned on his heel to descend, "I'm sorry to
                     say that President Hancock allows his hired men to say who shall
                     and who shan't see him. I think there ain't much trifling about the letters I
                     bring from General Washington. I'll call to-morrow, Mister."
                  Ki had made but one step before he was touched upon the shoulder, and, looking
                     round, he saw a gentleman slightly inclined to corpulency, not very tall,
                     dressed in the best fashion of the day, his wig highly powdered that covered a
                     head and face marked with a high order of intelligence, quickness and vigor of
                     character.
                  "My young friend," said the gentleman, "do not be so hasty. I recognize in your
                     accent and look a countryman. I should know a New Englander at the North or
                     South poles. Am I not right?"
                  "I am proud to call myself a Yankee, sir," was the answer of Ki.
                  "I knew as much, I knew as much. God bless her rough and sterile soil, and her
                     free-hearted sons!"
                  "Why, Adams," said a third person, who just at that moment mounted the steps,
                     "we South Carolinians call ourselves Yankees, now-a-days, as well as you New
                     Englanders; but I admit we are beat in size, if this officer is to be taken as
                     a sample of your part of the Colonies."
                  "Ah! Middleton, he is a tall specimen, I admit, but, as you say, we are all
                     Yankees now. I would introduce you to my countryman, only really I don't know
                     his name any more than you do."
                  "Ensign Hezekiah Lane, of Connecticut, at your service, sir, from the camp
                     before Boston with despatches from General Washington for President Hancock;
                     but I'm told I can't see him till to-morrow morning, so I will wish you a very
                     good morning, gentlemen. I'll be sure and wait upon his Excellency in the
                     morning."
                  "Pooh, you shall see him now," said Middleton; "the servant here has
                     misunderstood you—come, enter with us."
                  He took Ki by one arm, his companion took the other, and thus, between John
                     Adams, of Massachusetts, and Henry Middleton, of South Carolina, the humble
                     Ensign was ushered into the library of President Hancock.
                  "Gentlemen," said Mr. Adams. "let me introduce you to a New England countryman
                     of mine, Ensign Lane, with despatches from the Commander-in-Chief to President
                     Hancock. I can assure you all that his modesty is only equalled by his
                     height."
                  It would be useless to say that Ki was not abashed by this speech. He looked
                     towards Mr. Adams first, next gave a cursory glance at the seven or eight
                     gentlemen present, and then his eyes rolled in the direction of the door, to
                     see if it was open, that he might make a speedy retreat.
                  One of the gentlemen present—a tall, slim man—rose and tendered him a chair—it
                     was JOHN DICKINSON,*
                      of Pennsylvania. At the same instant, Mr. Hancock came and took him by
                      the hand.
                  
                     
                     *One of the firmest patriots of the revolution, and author of the
                        celebrated "Farmers' Letters."
                  
                  "You bring despatches from the Commander-in-Chief, Ensign?"
                  
                  "Yes, sir," said Ki, fumbling in his pockets, and drawing out a packet, which
                     he gave to the President.
                  "This appears to be addressed to Captain Burnham," replied Hancock, looking at
                     the superscription.
                  "Yes, sir, yes, sir; I forgot," answered Ki, feeling again, and producing, this
                     time, the proper bundle; "this, I believe, your Excellency, is the right one.
                     It is for President Hancock."
                  "Have you just arrived in Philadelphia from camp?"
                  "Yes, sir, but a little while ago; I rode, according to orders, post haste from
                     Cambridge."
                  "Then you have fasted, I know, and the latter part of your ride must have given
                     you an appetite. Not a word—I know it." He rang a small hand bell which stood
                     upon the table, and a servant appeared. "Thomas, lead this gentleman to one of
                     the adjoining rooms, and place dinner before him. Ensign, after you have taken
                     some refreshment, I will ask your attendance again. In the meantime, the
                     despatches will he read in the presence of the committee now assembled."
                  "Glad to be relieved from his unpleasant situation, Ki arose, bowed to the
                     company, and followed the servant, who stood in the doorway. Mr. Hancock had
                     perceived his embarrassment, and took this method to free him from momentary
                     disconcertedness, as well as to give him that refreshment he really required,
                     after his last day's ride.
                  In a short time, Ki sat down to a cold repast, to which he did ample justice,
                     washed down with wine of a flavor that he had never before tasted. A servant
                     was at his elbow, ready for any attendance, almost too much so for a republican
                     like Ki, who, of all things, desired to help himself without intervention. In
                     the meantime, loud notes of music pealed from the ball-room, where the company,
                     or such of them as chose to do so, were busily engaged in tripping it on the
                     "light fantastic toe."
                  "A merry party, I should imagine, from the lively tunes," said Ki, as he lifted
                     his third glass of wine to his lips.
                  "Yes, sir, quite lively," was the answer of the servant. "Shan't I help you to
                     a little of this Curacon, a fine cordial, sir?"
                  "No, none of it, but I'll tell you what I'd like you to do. If you'll go into
                     the ball-room, and ask Captain Burnham to come this way, I'll give you a
                     quarter joe."
                  "I'll try, sir, and if he'll come, it will be all right, I suppose."
                  "Yes, all right, here is the money now," and Ki handed him the gold piece, a
                     part of Miss Manners' own bestowal. Ki had never delivered the letter of the
                     young lady to Burnham after the meeting and rescue near Providence. At that
                     serious moment it escaped his memory, and he was now anxious to do so. After no
                     great space of time, the servant returned, but said he had no opportunity to
                     deliver the message, Captain Burnham being engaged in a dance with Miss
                     Shippen.
                  Ki made the mere answer "very well," and continued sipping his wine, when, to
                     his surprise, President Hancock entered the room.
                  "Thomas, you can retire," he said to the servant, who immediately left the
                     room.
                  "Now, Ensign, accompany me; the despatches are important, and the committee
                     desire to ask you a few questions. I hope you have fared well."
                  "Very well, your excellency," replied Ki, "so much so, that perhaps simpler
                     fare would have been better. I am ready, sir, to go with you."
                  The President led Ki to his library, where he found the same company as before.
                     A chair was pointed out to him, and he took his seat. A word as to the members
                     of Congress present. Names that should make every American proud of his country
                     in all future ages, for they are deeply registered in the history of our
                        glorious revolution!
                  
                  There was John Adams and Rogers Sherman, John Jay, and William Livingston, John
                     Dickinson, Samuel Chase, Richard Henry Lee and Henry Middleton, patriots all,
                     great and glorious patriots.
                  Ki had fully recovered from his perplexity on the first interview, and he now
                     looked from face to face, and read the characters of the men before him. Men of
                     stern yet patriotic views, ready indeed to pledge "their lives, their fortunes
                     and their sacred honor" in the good cause.
                  Before this body Ki underwent many questions, all in turn having something to
                     inquire about, and to all and each, he made such prompt and ready answers, that
                     a general feeling of admiration was expressed, sub
                        rosa, by all members of the committee, towards him.
                  "Indeed," said Dickinson to John Adams, who sat near him. "I shall
                     to-morrow, make a motion in Congress, that a sword be presented to this valiant
                     fellow for his services on Banker Hill, in connection with the one you have
                     proposed already for Captain Burnham. Both deserve it, what say you all?" and
                     Mr. Dickinson looked round on the committee.
                  There was a general murmur of "Yes, yes, He deserves it. He has won it."
                  Such was the feeling expressed by the early friends of the revolution. South
                     and North were unknown in those days.
                  President Hancock had observed the feeling. The despatches had already been
                     read, and the reply determined upon. He rose and said to Ki:
                  "Now let me conduct you into the presence of an agreeable company, where you
                     will find your friend Burnham. In the meantime, the Commander-in-Chief desires
                     an immediate reply. At what time will you be ready to leave?"
                  "Now, sir," was the quick answer of Ki.
                  He spoke so loud that the words were heard by all present, and a general
                     exclamation of surprise arose from those in the room.
                  "No, no; we have no wish that you should leave so soon," replied Hancock, as he
                     looked around. "Congress meets at eight o'clock to-morrow.*
                      By noon your despatches will be ready, and then you can take your
                      leave."
                  
                     
                     *The journals of the old Congress show that they met at this early
                        hour.
                  
                  When President Hancock had said this, he placed his arm in Ki's, and the latter
                     bowed to the company as he left the library. Together they entered the
                     ball-room, and Burnham was indeed astonished when he saw the master of the
                     mansion advancing towards him with Ki as his companion.
                  "What tall man is that?" hastily exclaimed Miss Shippen, looking in the face of
                     Burnham. "I really declare, after taking another look, he wears the same
                     uniform that you do. Oh! heaven preserve us! What shall we do against you
                     all?—you are like the locusts of Egypt! Tell me, Captain, tell me Burnham, who
                     is this giant, clad in the same uniform as yourself. Really, I shudder. Speak,
                     Captain, do."
                  "My dear Miss Shippen, do not be quite so alarmed. The giant, as you call him,
                     is one of the simplest and kindest-hearted men that ever the world saw. Let me
                     introduce him to you."
                  As Ki advanced—the arm of President Hancock resting upon his elbow, almost like
                     that of a boy—the latter was called upon from time to time for an introduction,
                     until at last, somewhat over wearied with the requests, he made one general
                     answer, thus wise: "This officer is the representative of 'Bunker's Hill.' Now
                     if you choose to ask him questions, do so; but let me assure you all, he is the
                     true representative of that Hill."
                  Poor Ki was in a perfect quandary. The ladies flocked around him, inviting him
                     to the dance, he that never danced in his life; and when Miss Shippen, the
                     partner of Harry, led him out, he almost fainted. Poor Ki!
                  It was all mischief, throughout, in the ball-room—complete mischief. Ki, his
                     tall form figuring through the country dance, in company with Miss Shippen—now
                     here, next there,—then the gallopade; 
                        bnt
                        but
                      he went through it, like a veteran.
                  At length the ball was closed, and, for the first time, Ki had an opportunity
                     to speak to Burnham.
                  "Harry, I have a letter from the Commander-in-Chief for you. I cannot tell you
                     the contents, for I don't know them. I was selected to follow you, Harry, and,
                     although you had two days' start, I'm here almost as quick you."
                  This was said in a jovial tone, and the letter was given by Ki to Burnham. The
                     latter was truly overjoyed to see a companion from the camp before Boston, and
                     most of all, KI LANE.
                  The letter which Ki first handed to Burnham, was from the Commander-in-Chief at
                     Cambridge. Part of it read thus—we give only an extract:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "I have received a letter from Mrs. Washington, of a late date. She
                                 is now on her way from Mount Vernon to Cambridge, and will reach
                                 Philadelphia a few days after you receive this. I request you to
                                 remain until she does arrive, and escort her to camp. Mrs.
                                 Washington will come in her own carriage, attended by her own
                                 servants, so that the request will be but small. My desire is, that
                                 you see her safely to camp. In this, I know you will not fail. The
                                 immediate dispatches, please send by Ensign Lane. Believe me,
                              
                                 Truly, your friend,
                                 GEORGE WASHINGTON.
                                 
                                    TO CAPT. HARRY BURNHAM, PHIL.
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  It was now waxing late. Burnham had merely time to take leave of his partner,
                     Miss Shippen, as she entered the carriage of her father; she said in a soft
                     whisper.
                  "Do not fail to call and see me to-morrow,—remember, Harry."
                  This was indeed a request from the belle of Philadelphia—the call was
                     "Harry!"
                  "Come," said he at length to Ki, who stood near him, "this scene is over; let
                     us go to our quarters."
                  They reached the house of Mrs. Graydon, and entered the bed-chamber of Burnham.
                     A cot was then brought in at the request of Harry, for he wished the companion
                     of his childhood to sleep in the same apartment.
                  "Harry," said Ki, "when I escaped from Boston, dear little Mary Manners gave me
                     a letter for you which I have had no real chance to deliver before—here it is;
                     don't blame me, I might have given it to you after you was attacked near
                     Providence, but I forgot it."
                  Burnham eagerly seized the letter. Twice he read it,—he was evidently
                     agitated—at length he threw himself upon the bed, exclaiming, "It is well—I
                     have been mistaken, now I belong to my country alone."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXX.
                  It is the privilege of writers to place before their readers the most private
                     letters, come they from statesmen, soldiers or lovers. Without that privilege,
                     readers would sometimes be left in a curious predicament. We shall, therefore,
                     allow them a glimpse of the letter of Mary Manners to Burnham.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 BOSTON, August, 1775.
                              
                              
                                 Dear Harry:—I was much, you can imagine how much,
                                 surprised to find, one bright morning, you had taken leave of your
                                 friends in Boston by exchange for another stupid
                                 soldier (not half so agreeable as yourself though) and forgotten to
                                 leave e'en a message for your little school fellow of other days,
                                 Mary. Well, well, these horrid wars of sword, pistol and gun,
                                 between people of the same origin, plays sad havoc with your
                                 memory.
                              Do you remember, Harry, when you was about fourteen, one winter's
                                 day, catching a little snow bird, for which you made a cage, and
                                 gave the tiny creature to me? Do you remember, too, the tricks I
                                 taught him; how tame he grew, so that when I opened his cage door,
                                 he would come and chirp upon my shoulders—and I christened the
                                 little pet "Harry," and how well he knew his name?
                              Do you remember again, Harry, that spring came, the trees of the
                                 forest leaved out and the flowers budded, and the turf once more
                                 looked green under the skies of May, and the birds sang their
                                 annual notes in the lilac bushes under my window, and you coaxed
                                 and tempted me to let "Harry" out of the cage in the green, saying that you knew he
                                 would never leave me. Do you remember this?
                              Ah! I did let him out—perhaps it was right. But the little ingrate,
                                 that I had nourished and petted through the winter, flew from bush
                                 to bush, and would not come back at my call. We chased him away
                                 from field to field, until at last he soared away into the far off
                                 woods, and I watched him until I heard him no longer, and his
                                 plumage had faded, as I thought, forever from my sight. You know
                                 how I sat down on the bank and cried, as if my heart would break,
                                 and you endeavored to cheer me by saying that he would come back,
                                 but that if he did not, you would catch me a bird of brighter
                                 plumage and more faithful attachment, one that would never leave
                                 me. I dried my tears, but still through the long summer, how often
                                 my thoughts rushed back to my tiny winter's pet.
                              Summer passed away, autumn vanished; and one Thanksgiving morning,
                                 when the first snow was lying on the ground, as I looked from the
                                 window panes, marked here and there with strange figures, drawn by
                                 the fingers of Jack Frost, I heard a tap like the bill of a bird. A
                                 strange throb beat in my heart,—could it be true,—yes, yes! I
                                 opened the casement, and in flew my little winter's per, lighting
                                 upon my shoulder, and chirping merrily as I called him by his
                                 familiar name, "Harry." Ah! and when you came to the parsonage to
                                 take dinner with us, how delighted you were when the little fellow
                                 flew about the room, with his merry chirp, picking the crumbs from
                                 your hand. These were happy times, Harry, and that was
                                 a happy Thanksgiving day.
                              Spring was again close at hand—my little pet sickened—he grew
                                 worse, day by day—finally he ceased to eat, perching no longer, but
                                 nestling in a corner of his cage, until one morning I found him
                                 cold to death. Then you came and dug a little grave in one corner
                                 of the garden, and we buried him. And do you remember, how, in
                                 thoughtlessness, but with perfect sincerity, I took the prayer-book
                                 from mp father's study, to read prayers over my little pet's grave,
                                 when he chid me sternly for so doing; and how I cried anew, and you
                                 stood 
                                    uy
                                    by
                                  bravely in my behalf, and spoke so forward and bold, that
                                 my father told you to leave the house, and not return until "you
                                 could be more decorous and less impertinent"—and you kissed me and
                                 went away in anger, and did not return until my father sent a kind
                                 message for you? Do you remember this? I do!
                              
                              Well-a-day—these things happened in dear, dear Oakdale—a place I
                                 shall see no more! But, stop, stop—I forget the inference that you
                                 may draw from the story of that feathered pet. Only one point, dear
                                    brother Harry, take in its full bearing. Did I not
                                 rescue you from your winter foes, and did you not leave me without
                                 a bidding? Never mind the closing part of the bird story that I
                                 hope, deeply hope, will not be your fate—you know this sincerely,
                                    brother Harry, for then I should be really
                                 alone.
                              Now for more serious matters. You well know my father was forced,
                                 or rather he thought, with his loyal belief, that he was forced to
                                 leave Oakdale on account of the troubles between the parent land
                                 and the colonies. This trouble, instead of decreasing, is vastly on
                                 the increase.
                              Where will it end? Alas! I cannot tell My hopes, my
                                 feelings, as you know, are with the colonies—indeed, too much so, I
                                 fear, for my father's welfare, or my own. I have placed, I
                                 sometimes think, both of us in jeopardy, by certain late acts of
                                 mine; Ki, the bearer of this, can tell what they are. I wish—heaven
                                 is my judge—that our country may succeed against the
                                 usurpations of the mother power—and succeed it will, though the day
                                 and hour be far distant.
                              Now for something private, things of our own. You have ever been
                                 dear to me, dear as a brother, had I been blessed with
                                 such a fraternal companion. I wish you ever to think
                                    so—further I cannot say. Oh, Harry! if it should
                                 happen that my father falls into difficulty, a prisoner, perhaps,
                                 on your side, be his friend, as I was yours a little time ago.
                                 Remember this, from your sister.
                              You may wonder where I should be if this might happen. I will tell
                                 you. My father has been urged by General Gage to accept a
                                 chaplaincy in the army, and has almost promised so to do. At any
                                 rate, before a month is over, we shall leave in a troop-ship for
                                 Halifax, from whence my dear good father thinks of sending
                                    me to England, to stay with my paternal relatives,
                                 whilst he proceeds to Quebec, there to remain for the present with
                                 his ancient friend, Sir Guy Carleton, the Governor of Canada. I
                                 have made no objection—I shall make none. His loyal grief is too
                                 strong for me to disobey him at such a time, whatever may be my own
                                 opinions, and I cannot refuse.
                              It may therefore happen, Harry, that in the storms and tempests now
                                 gathering around our unhappy country, my father may be placed in a
                                 situation, where you can save him from imprisonment, pain and
                                 suffering—do so, do so, for your sister's sake. Yet,
                                 what a foolish request; dear Harry, forgive me, I know that you
                                 have a deep veneration for your old preceptor, my father, and that
                                 such a request is needless, but as you love me,
                                    remember!
                              
                              There was something fell from your lips, the night before you left
                                 Boston, so unexpectedly to me, from which I drew a kint; perhaps I misunderstood you—if I did understand you
                                 correctly, believe me, truly yours, with all the affections of a
                                    sister.
                              
                                 MARY MANNERS.
                              
                           
                           
                              P.S. Let me hear from you within a month, Beyond that time I cannot
                                 write you where to address me.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  This was the epistle that caused Burnham to throw himself upon his bed, and
                     mutter what he did. Perhaps he had regarded his affection for Miss Manners in a
                     stronger light than he had a right to do—and, not knowing that
                        love and affection are of different growths, he
                     had fostered one at the expense of another. Be that as it may, he rose next
                     morning, if not a happier, certainly, in his own estimation, a wiser man.
                  Ki was already up when Burnham opened his eyes, busily engaged in shaving
                     himself. He looked around—the sun was throwing its bright beams into their
                     bed-room. "What, Ki, so soon up?" said he; "are you to take breakfast
                     elsewhere, that you are engaged thus early?"
                  "Early? Why, Harry, you kept up such a busy chattering in your sleep, about
                     'blighted hopes,' 'disappointed expectations,' and things of that kind, that,
                     really, I did not get to sleep 'till near daylight, and we are now, in
                     consequence, full one hour behind breakfast."
                  "Did I!" said Burnham; "well, be that between ourselves. That ball of last
                     night has been running through my brain, and confused me in my sleep. Let the
                     matter pass, Ki; we will make it up in extra eating at Mrs. Graydon's
                     well-spread board."
                  Ki said nothing in reply, but he thought a great deal, and, as they were about
                     leaving the bed-room, he observed that a letter lay upon the table, somewhat
                     crushed, as if thrown there in haste.
                  "Harry," said he, in a quiet tone, "take up that night mare
                     letter, and put it in your pocket. I don't think it will trouble you there.
                     Read it again."
                  A slight color rose in Burnham's face, and a twitching of his arm was
                     perceptible as he seized the letter, and placed it carefully in the pocket of
                     his flapped vest.
                  "Remember, Ki, since you seem to understand my feelings, say nothing
                     further."
                  After breakfast, Harry and Ki proceeded to the State House, where Congress was
                     already in session, and were politely shown by one of the door-keepers to a
                     committee-room in the building. It was not long before they were waited upon by
                     a tall, dignified-looking man, between forty and fifty years of age, who
                     announced himself as Mr. Thompson,*
                      the Secretary of Congress, and stated that Mr. Hancock, the President,
                      would soon be at leisure to meet them.
                  
                     
                     *Charles Thompson, the patriotic Secretary of Congress during the
                        revolution. He died in 1821, over 90 years of age
                  
                  They had not waited long before the President of Congress entered the room.
                  "Ah! gentlemen," said he, "we have had quite a dispute about the Canada matter.
                     That is, and of course we understand it between each other, whether to allow
                     the march of Arnold towards Quebec. We have finally agreed upon the
                     undertaking. As to that matter, Ensign Lane, here are the proper documents.
                     Take them, and halt not a moment on your route, unless you are compelled to do
                     so. Deliver them at once to General Washington, the Commander-in-Chief of the
                     Army. Say to him, also, that further dispatches will be forwarded by Captain
                     Burnham."
                  Ki made a very brief reply. Taking the despatch, or bundle, he merely said, as
                     he placed it in his military cap, "President Hancock, this despatch will be
                     placed in the hands of Washington sooner than you have any reason to expect. I
                     am glad that an effort is to be made against Canada. I shall become a
                     volunteer, depend on it."
                  "Will you, my brave follower of the Commander-in-Chief?" was the reply. "Do not
                     be so certain. The Congress, through me, their President, have
                     voted you a sword, as well as your comrade here, Captain Burnham, for your
                     services on Bunker Hill, and now you tell me that you will be a
                     volunteer against Canada. Remember, sir, that you have to look to me as well as
                     the Commander in-Chief."
                  "Sir," was the immediate answer of Ki, "I did not mean to say one word against
                     the action of Congress—come what will, I am their obedient and humble servant
                     on all occasions, and shall ever be so. This, my good sir, you should
                     remember."
                  "Touchy fellow, touchy fellow," replied Hancock, looking up in Ki's face, "I
                     find that my reprimand has done what I intended. I was merely
                        acting to draw out your feelings, my tall friend. Come, it is
                     now nearly my dinner time. Congress has given me two hours' grace, before I
                     again resume the chair, and you must both accompany me to my mansion. We are
                     all Yankees—so no excuse—no excuse, but enter my carriage."
                  Of course there could be no excuse, and Burnham and Ki entered the carriage of
                     the President of Congress.
                  On reaching the mansion of President Hancock, the guests found a table spread,
                     abundantly supplied with the choicest of dainties.
                  "Fall to, fall to," was the only suggestion, and they did so. The viands
                     disappeared as before the jaws of hungry men.
                  "Now, then," said Hancock, "Ensign Lane, make no delay with the dispatches you
                     have received. Deliver them to the Commander-in-Chief as quick as possible. Yet
                     stay, I have something to whisper privately in your ear."
                  The President of Congress took Ki aside.
                  "My brave fellow, I have every reason to believe a spy is on your track. Look
                     out for him. I would have the man I suspect arrested, yet I have my doubts.
                     Watch, and he ready. Farewell. It is now noon—the hour of your departure."
                  Ki paused, merely to take his leave of Burnham. The time of the departure of
                     the latter rested solely upon the arrival of Mrs. Washington, then on her way
                     to camp.
                  "Well, Harry, what shall I say to the General and to Fairfax?"
                  "Nothing," was the reply of Burnham, "but this. Our good commander will know
                     why I remain; but tell Fairfax if he does not break the colt I left in his
                     possession, I shall imagine him to be but a poor specimen of horsemanship,
                     although he now belongs to the riflemen."
                  "Nothing else?"
                  "Yes. Look out, Ki, that, although I leave Philadelphia after you, I do not
                     overtake and rescue you, as you did me. Be careful—the road is truly dangerous,
                     and I have a thought I shall show you a similar turn."
                  Ki laughed when he heard this greeting
                     from his own student, for Burnham was such in horsemanship, and he
                     rode away with a smile on his journey towards Cambridge.
                  Burnham felt a little angry for the moment, but when Ki waved his hat at no
                     great distance, his heart beat in the right place, and he muttered to himself,
                     as he entered President Hancock's mansion:
                  "May you not meet with the same scoundrels on your journey to Cambridge, that I
                     did in coming."
                  "Now, Captain Burnham," said Hancock, "you will remain with me the rest of the
                     day, nay for the night. It is my intention that a social party shall usury the
                     place of public duties, and you shall be one of the invited guests. No
                     denial—will you be one?"
                  "Certainly, sir," was the reply of Burnham. "I am your prisoner for the rest of
                     the day and night, Mr. President."
                  "Then be it understood that you remain as such," was the reply.
                  The story of the supper, and the social night at President Hancock's will be
                     narrated in the next chapter.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXI.
                  THE SUPPER AT PRESIDENT HANCOCK'S.
                  John Hancock was a man of varied talents and habits. His father was a
                     Presbyterian minister in one of the interior towns in Massachusetts, dependant
                     upon an humble salary for the support of himself and family.
                  An uncle of young Hancock, a bachelor, had commenced business in Boston, as a
                     bookseller, in which business he was so successful that he entered into
                     mercantile speculations on a large scale, and became one of the most extensive
                     ship-owners in the town of Boston. Adopting his nephew John, he gave him a
                     liberal education at Harvard University, and took him into partnership after he
                     graduated. On his death, he left the bulk of his large fortune to the nephew,
                     who became so famous, at a later period, as the President of Congress.
                  Education and association had refined the manners of Mr. Hancock in an eminent
                     degree; yet among his equals he was, at times, so familiar as to appear jovial.
                     Not so when he was in the presence of his inferiors in rank and station. To
                     them he was stately and commanding, but never insulting; some patriots
                     considered him almost aristocratic. From his associations and large fortune,
                     arose this apparent love, on his part, of admiration from those moving in a
                     lower sphere.
                  Again—he would ever keep up his stateliness and dignity, and exact respect from
                     those who held even a higher station in the public service. An instance of this
                     occurred long after the war, when Washington, as President of the United
                     States, made a visit to the East. At the time John Hancock was Governor of
                     Massachusetts, and lived in great style and magnificence.
                  When Washington, accompanied by his secretaries, reached the quarters which had
                     been provided for him in Boston, he was somewhat surprised that the Governor of
                     the State, his old friend Hancock, did not call upon him the day that he
                     arrived. The reason leaked out. Hancock considered, as a matter of etiquette, that he being the Governor of the State,
                     it was the President's duty first to call on him—particularly as he was
                     suffering somewhat from the gout. The matter, however, was finally settled, and
                     Hancock made the first call, as probably he was bound to do, as the President
                     should have been considered the guest of the State. This little thing showed
                     the punctilio of Hancock, and was
                     characteristic of the man.
                  He was a good liver—a bon vivant, we might
                     say—fond of his madeira after dinner, and, with the right party of social
                     companions, could finish his bottle or two with any of them. His companions,
                     however, were always those of his own standing in life, and his familiar
                     joviality was shown only at his own table.
                  He was a shrewd and keen observer of character, and easily detected the
                     pinchbeck from the true gold, and really loved those that displayed manliness
                     and independence of character. He knew no social divisions, by which to judge
                     the standard of men, (the fault of statesmen of our day,) and loved the North
                     equally with the South, highly as he thought of his own native New England, and
                     the inhabitants of her soil. He was a true patriot, for he had more to lose
                     than to gain.
                  In looking back upon the men who constituted the several Congresses that met
                     just prior to, and during the early period of, the revolution, and comparing
                     them with those of an after generation, the contradistinction is most
                     remarkable. It would seem as if a Divine Providence was instrumental in the
                     selection of the patriots of that early day.
                  They assembled at a time when the gathering thunders of a civil war, backed by
                     the immense military power and wealth of the greatest nation in the world,
                     could be heard around, and they met to "brave the lightning and defy the
                     storm." If unsuccessful, the examples of other years were before them, written
                     in letters of blood. Crimsoned with the events of the past was the word
                     TREASON, and the scenes which followed Preston, Carlisle and Culloden, only
                     thirty years before, were remembered, with the axe, the block and the
                     gibbet.
                  And yet these men defied all; they would submit to no injustice; they preferred
                     all the perils and chances of the future, to surrendering the rights for which
                     their ancestors crossed the broad ocean more than a century before;—if
                     necessary, they would take up arms—if necessary, they would die in the defence
                     of their homes and hearths—but they would never submit to the imposition of a
                     penny tribute. Thus banded in thought and act, they pledged to each other THEIR
                     LIVES, THEIR FORTUNES, and THEIR SACRED HONOR!
                  Among these men was found no one more conspicuous than John Hancock, of
                     Massachusetts Bay. Next to Charles Carroll,*
                      of Maryland land, he was probably the most wealthy signer of the
                     Declaration of Independence. His influence was considered so great, that, when
                     Peyton Randolph, of Virginia, resigned the Presidency of Congress, on the 24th
                     of May, 1775, John Hancock was chosen unanimously in his place.
                  
                     
                     *Mr. Carroll, by the bye, was not a member of the Congress of 1775 he
                        joined a year after.
                  
                  It was eight o'clock in the evening. Burnham was sitting in the library of
                     President Hancock, looking over a volume of the early history of Greece—that
                     period when Athens and Sparta adopted an anomalous republican form of
                     government. Suddenly, he found between himself and the chandelier a shadow,
                     which, casting its darkness upon the page, obscured all from his sight.
                     Lycurgus flitted away like a spectre—the very letters dwindled into unmeaning
                     nothings. He had been reading, but thought had thrown a doze over all, and the
                     intervention of the shadow eclipsed the vague ideas which, for five minutes,
                     like the first mingling of dreams with those outward sentinels of life—the
                     eyes—lead man through the dark, mysterious paths of sleep, and the soul roams
                     unconsciously.
                  Burnham looked up. The shadow had been thrown from the form of President
                     Hancock, standing between him and the light.
                  "Well, my dear young Captain, engaged with books, I see. A man loses nothing in
                     the company of volumes like these. I often think a solitary library is better
                     than human associates. You have no question to answer, but you take in all. A
                     book is like the soul—it creates the feeling within, disturbed by no void
                     without. A book is human, without the nonsensical tongue or sound of humanity;
                     if you dislike it, you can throw it aside and take up another, without being
                     asked the reason. You cannot thus thrust men aside:—if you dislike them, you
                     are bound by common politeness to hear them. No, no; books—the recorded
                     thoughts of eminent men—are far better than the company of the writers
                     themselves, nine times out of ten."
                  "True, sir; but, as you say, there is a tenth instance where the author's voice
                     may be as agreeable as his writings. In this case, the one I am reading; the
                     eloquence of Demosthenes must have been indeed severe against the Macedonian,
                     Philip. Far more so than the written fragments of his invectives."
                  "Ah! the eloquence brought down to us from the lapse of so many generations,"
                     said Hancock, "like wine, smacks sweeter with the indulgence of age. We are apt
                     to forget, in the enjoyment, the reasons and the cause. The day
                        will come, I think, my young friend, when the events of our
                     time will loom out in history, grander and more sublime than those of Greece
                     and Rome—because the world will be more civilized, and the effects will be
                     appreciated by half the globe."
                  Burnham had shut the book he was perusing, and risen from his seat. There was a
                     kindling in the eye of President Hancock as he spoke, that fascinated as well
                     as attracted the young officer. The sentiment of belief, that a day was coming,
                     when the deeds of the comparatively feeble colonies would be looked upon as far
                     greater than were those of Greece or Rome, when lit up with the fire of
                     doubtful republicanism, seemed to Burnham far more brilliant for his native
                     land, than ever he, in the hot and fiery blood of enthusiastic youth, had
                     dreamt of. He looked Hancock steadily in the face, as he replied:
                  "Then we must cast aside all the aristocratic formula that
                     surrounded those misnamed governments, and make the colonies truly a united
                     republic—not such republics as those of Greece and Rome."
                  "Excellently said, and well thought. But do you know, my young friend, that out
                     of Congress, some leaders of the people are unsound. The idea of the colonies
                     being able to protect themselves, without a ruler three thousand miles off, in
                     the mother country, seems, to those kind of patriots, preposterous. Yet we can
                     do so, and if my opinions hereafter are to be of any weight, the colonies will
                     do so."
                  "Sir," answered Burnham, who was now entering heart and soul into this
                     discussion, "what protection have the colonies ever received from Great
                     Britain? We have furnished timber for her ships, men for her armies, conquered
                     Canada for her, fed her sailors in the West Indies—nay, even those islands in
                     the tropics which she possesses—and yet not able to protect ourselves! The
                     British ministry must think us fools, indeed! Pardon me, sir, I have forgotten
                     I should listen, not speak."
                  "Speak on, speak on, my young friend. It is upon the shoulders of youth, like
                     you, that the elder sages of the republic will have to lean, when the day comes
                     (as it will come) that we shall be so governed. You have heard of Mr.
                        Galloway,*
                        of this province—a member of the Congress of last year?"
                  
                     
                     *Hon. Joseph Galloway, of Pennsylvania, Speaker of the House in that
                        province, was one of the chief leaders of the Congress of 1774. After the
                        Declaration of Independence he joined the British, and finally went to
                        England.
                  
                  "I have, sir—a distinguished patriot, I believe."
                  "Patriot!" replied Hancock, bending his head so that his mouth almost touched
                     the ear of Burnham; "he is outwardly with us, but at heart against us. There
                     are many such apparent leaders in the colonies. They have no idea of separation
                     from the mother country;—speak of that, and their ideas of liberty melt away
                     like snow before the sunbeams."
                  "Sir, you really surprise me," was the answer of Burnham. "Mr. Galloway has
                     always been looked upon, in my part of the country, as one of the first of
                     patriots."
                  "True, true, but I know more of the secrets of great men than you do. The
                     present Congress is one of high purity, with here and there an exception. When
                     the question of Independence is brought directly up before Congress, we shall
                     see and detect the rotten limbs that now encumber the healthy trunk."
                  "Would to God that our countrymen were all like our good and glorious General.
                     He is truly a patriot, who loves his country with his whole heart and
                     soul."
                  "Yes, he is a sterling man," replied Hancock cock; "one of the few that know how to be great
                     without ostentation or pride. I studied Washington's character well during the
                     time he was in Congress."
                  "At whose suggestion was it, sir, that he was appointed Commander-in-Chief?"
                     inquired Burnham, anxiously.
                  "I will tell you, my young friend—you shall know all. The delegates from the
                     eastern colonies met together on the evening that Congress assembled; for they
                     knew that, on the day after, the full particulars of the skirmishes of
                     Lexington and Concord, with the proper affidavits, would be placed before that
                        body.*
                      We also knew that Boston was then in a state of siege, and it became
                     necessary that an army should be raised, under the sanction of the general
                     Congress, and, when this was done, the next thing to follow would be the
                     appointment of a Commander-in-Chief. We all agreed that, if possible, the man
                     chosen should be from the South; for, although not suffering like us, they had
                     taken up arms in our behalf like brothers."
                  
                     
                     *Congress met on the 10th of May, 1775, and on the next day the
                        particulars of the battles of Concord and Lexington were laid before that
                        body. The address was signed by JOSEPH WARREN, President pro tem. of the Provincial Congress at
                        Watertown, Mass., and bears date, April 26th, 1775.
                  
                  "Excuse me, sir, for interrupting you," said Burnham, "but the move has been as
                     great a one for the whole country as it was politic in the meeting."
                  "Yes, my young friend, we are glad that our policy has not led to any
                     misjudgment of character in this instance. After Congress had been two weeks in
                     session, another meeting was held of the members from the East, and Mr. Gerry
                     proposed that GEORGE WASHINGTON, of Virginia, be nominated for the important
                     station of Commander-in-Chief. John Adams supported it. His exploits in the
                     early campaigns against the Indians and French, and his services at the time of
                     Braddock's defeat, were brought forward, and the sterling good sense he had
                     displayed in Congress, made us Eastern members nearly unanimous in his
                     favor.
                  "It was thought best, however, that I should give a dinner party to a select
                     number of the members, and that Col. Washington, of Virginia, should be
                     specially invited. It was given, and at that dinner we New England members saw
                     enough of our guest to decide that he was the MAN. His rare good sense, his
                     dignity and influence, decided the matter.
                  "On the 15th of June, 1775, it was decided to go into ballot for the choice of
                     a Commander-in-Chief of the Continental forces. Washington was not present.
                     John Adams rose and nominated, in a brief but stirring speech, George
                     Washington, of Virginia. Mr. Gerry followed, and Mr. Stone, of Maryland, spoke
                     warmly of the man.†
                      The Virginia members delicately kept silent. Washington was chosen,
                      unanimously, Commander-in-Chief.
                         
                         †Eldridge Gerry, of Massachusetts, and Thomas Stone, of Maryland.
                      
                  "It was my duty, next morning, as President of Congress, to inform Col.
                     Washington that he had been chosen to command the army. This was done in open
                     Congress, before all the members. The reply of Washington on that occasion you
                     have read. It was worthy his head and heart. Proud indeed do I feel that what
                     little influence I possessed was given to one so worthy. But come, I have kept
                     you listening, instead of leading you to the supper-room. Some of my guests are
                     there, I'll be bound, and, together, we will make some portion of a pleasant
                     night of it." Taking Burnham by the arm, he led him to the supper-room, where,
                     for the present, we will leave them to their enjoyment.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXII.
                  WHAT HAPPENED TO KI.
                  KI pursued his journey rapidly from Philadelphia, on his way to camp, and as
                     night closed in he had made no small progress. He passed the tavern where he
                     intended, at first, stopping for the night, but, as the evening was clear, he
                     thought it best to push on still further.
                  About an hour after, thick clouds began to cover the skies, and distant
                     thunder, with far off flashes of light, gave warning of an approaching storm.
                     He now regretted that he had not stopped as he had intended, but it was too
                     late to return, and he pushed on, hoping to find a house by the roadside, and
                     shelter from the storm. Much to his surprise, no house appeared in view, and
                     the rain began to fall heavily and fiercely upon horse and rider.
                  A faint light glimmered a short distance off the road, and, turning up a narrow
                     path or lane seldom travelled, as far as Ki could perceive in the darkness, he
                     found himself by the house, or rather hut, from which the light streamed
                     through a single window in an upper loft or story. Ki dismounted, and rapped
                     loudly at the door.
                  In a few moments a head was thrust from the window, and a harsh female voice
                     exclaimed, in no gentle tones:—
                  "Who's that banging away so?"
                  "A stranger, but a friend."
                  "I don't know anything about strange friends. What do you want?"
                  "Good woman, do you not see how it rains? I am a traveller, caught unexpectedly
                     in the storm, and want lodging and shelter for the night."
                  "Why didn't ye stop at Squire David's tavern then? that's the place for
                     strangers. Good lodgin's and vittles."
                  "It's too late for that now, good woman. Come, let me in; I merely want shelter
                     for the night, or rather what there is left of it. I'll set by the fire or lie
                     down on the floor, and make no trouble."
                  "I tell you again, this ain't no tavern. I'm all alone in the house, for my
                     three sons are away, plague take 'em, I should think they'd got through their
                     business by this time."
                  "Have some little pity, do!" remarked Ki. "Hark! will you keep a man outside
                     the door after that?"
                  A heavy peal of thunder, with a quick flash of lightning, revealed, to the old
                     woman, Ki's uniform.
                  "So, you are one of them sojer chaps that's trampoosing about the country, and
                     talking about liberty, instead of attendin' to work and respectin' the
                     king?"
                  "Really, good woman, this is no place or time to argue about that. Let me in,
                     and I'll be a king's man or rebel, just as you please to call me."
                  The light disappeared from the window, and after taking down a heavy bar, an
                     old slatternly hag, in every sense of the word, skinny and bony, appeared at
                     the door.
                  "I don't s'pose you're 'goin' to bring your horse in, too, are you?"
                  "No, my good woman; but, pray tell me, where shall I leave him?"
                  "Why, there's a shed yonder, where you can tie him up, I reckon. As for hay or
                     oats, we don't keep them things, 'cause we ain't got horses nor cows."
                  Ki led his steed to the shed pointed out, fastened him, and entered the house.
                     When he had done so, the same precaution as before was used by the old woman,
                     and the door carefully barred.
                  "Are there robbers hereabouts, that you are so careful of your property?" said
                     Ki, glancing round at the bare walls and the unfurnished appearance of the
                     hovel.
                  "That's my business, and none o' yourn, mister. You came for shelter, but not
                     to question, I reckon."
                  "Certainly, good woman. I'll be as mum on the subject, hereafter, as if I was
                     born deaf."
                  "Don't good woman me. I'm no better than others, I reckon; and a good many
                     think me worse. But, better or worse, I know what I'm about."
                  Ki was suspicious of the woman's looks, suspicious of the place, and, in fact,
                     he had reason from the movements of the hag. She scrutinized him from head to
                     foot, holding the candle directly in his face, or, rather, up to his face,
                     which she eyed for a moment attentively.
                  "You're mighty tall, I reckon, Mr. Soger—mighty tall."
                  "Yes, ma'am, somewhat above most people in height, I admit. Now, since you have
                     been so hospitable, can you not give me something to eat. I am willing to pay
                     you liberally for anything in the shape of food. A little cold meat and bread
                     and butter, or, if you have not both, I will accept of the one, and thank as
                     well as pay you."
                  When Ki said this, he drew from his pocket, carelessly and indifferently, the
                     purse which had been given him by Miss Manners, the contents of which were yet
                     little broken into, and, as he laid down a guinea on the ricketty table, he saw
                     how the eyes of the old hag sparkled, and perceived at once his error, but it
                     was too late. With the same apparent carelessness, he replaced the purse in his
                     pocket, but, in doing so, he purposely exhibited the butts of his pistols,
                     which he carried in a half-concealed belt next to his waistcoat.
                  "Why, it is a ra'al guinny, I do believe. Yes, it is, I see the king's head
                     on't. Well, now I think about it, there's a nice piece of biled pork and
                     cabbage, jist ready for my boys when they gets home, and some rye bread, fresh
                     baked to-day. I guess you can arrange a snack out on't, very well."
                  She went out of the room into a small kitchen that stood off, and soon returned
                     with the homely but substantial food, which she placed upon the table, together
                     with the promised rye bread and some butter contained curiously enough in a
                     bowl.
                  "There, fall too—fall to, and get through as fast as you can. If my boys come
                     in,—they're strappin' fellows, almost your size, I don't know as they'd relish
                     food arter a stranger had been eatin', if he did put down a guinny."
                  Ki drew up to the table, and was soon engaged in satisfying his keen appetite
                     with the cold pork and cabbage.
                  "Do you sojers always carry things like them about ye?" said the old woman,
                     with the most perfect coolness, as she placed her hands on Ki's pistols and
                     drew them from his belt.
                  "Why not?" he replied, keeping his eye on her movements, yet still eating, "if
                     you are afraid of being robbed in this out of the way place, why should not a
                     man on horseback, a stranger travelling on the roads, be full as cautious. Be
                     careful in handling them, they are both loaded, my good woman."
                  "La, are they?" she replied, with affected surprise. "Here, mister sojer, take
                     em back. Taint women's business to meddle with such tools."
                  Ki saw her deliberately shake out the priming, before the pistols
                     were returned to him, Ki took them, however, and replaced them in his pocket,
                     showing no indications of alarm. "So, so," thought he, "I have got into a
                     hornet's nest, and I must rest still, but keep my eyes about me."
                  "How do you like your supper, mister sojer?" said the old woman.
                  "Very well—you have given me good substantial food, and that is all I want, I
                     assure you. By-the-bye, what is the reason your sons should find any fault with
                     me on their return. I am but a traveller, a continental, it is true, but
                     willing to pay for what I take or eat. I hope your sons are continentals,
                     likewise, that is the side of patriotism."
                  "Patriotism, fiddlesticks," replied the hag, with a singular grimace, "what
                     have you to do with playin' the rebel agin King George? Has he ever done you
                     any harm? Not a bit ov it, but hasn't he kept ye all in good condition, with
                     plenty about? I'm the widder of a king's man as was killed at the takin' of
                     Havana, and I draw his majesty's pension for his bein' kilt, God bless
                     him."
                  Now whether this venerable, yet wicked matron, meant thereby to say that she
                     drew a pension on account of her husband, or the king bein' kilt, Ki did not
                     stop to reason about. But it was very apparent to him, that the old virago was,
                     what was termed in the language of the
                     day, a "she tory," that is, a woman violent on the king's side and twice as
                     much to be feared as a man of the same opinions.
                  "My good woman, no matter whether you like that title or not," said Ki, putting
                     down his knife and fork as he finished his meal, "I'll not dispute with you in
                     politics at any rate. Now having enjoyed your food, tell me if I cannot let my
                     horse loose into some pasture in the vicinity. I will tether him so that he
                     cannot go far."
                  "Yes, mister sojer, you will find a fence and bars to the left of the shed,
                     where you can turn your horse and perhaps he'll get a nice taste of clover
                     there. It isn't our lot, but then I 'spose the owner, Squire Martin, won't be
                     any the wiser."
                  Ki left the house and went to the shed, where untying his horse, he led him as
                     directed, through the darkness, to the bars, and the animal was soon "in
                     clover," as the saying goes.
                  This done, Ki took good care to reprime his pistols from a flask of powder he
                     carried in his pocket, before he again entered the house. He found the old
                     woman awaiting his return with some anxiety, the light in her hand, and she
                     standing in the doorway of a room adjoining the one in which he had taken his
                     meal.
                  "Come," said she, "mister sojer, you must bundle off to bed at once I expect,
                     as I told you, my boys back every minute, and you must make haste into your
                     bunk."
                  "Well, be it so, since you are so anxious. This is my room for the rest of the
                     night, then?"
                  "Yes, and I reckon it's a good room, too. See, the bed is fit for King George,
                     if he lived in these parts, and I think its doubtful if he has one like it at
                     home."
                  "Perhaps so," was the reply of Ki. "Good night."
                  And he closed the door in her face. The room was small, and the bed, which had
                     elicited so much praise from the lips of the mistress of the mansion, was
                     nothing more than could be found in the commonest country farm-house. What
                     struck Ki with still more surprise, was that the window was carefully 
                        clased
                        closed
                      with a shutter outside, and the rough casement nailed tight. It was
                     in vain he endeavored to open it, the thing was impossible.
                  The candle, which the woman had given him, was not an inch long, and soon
                     burned nearly down. Not wishing to show any suspicions, he blew out what
                     remained, and, without undressing, threw himself upon the bed. Sleep gradually
                     overcame him—he slumbered. Suddenly he was aroused by whisperings in the next
                     room, then a faint gurgling sound, like the breathings of one suffering a
                     violent death. He sat upright in his bed, and listened.
                  Ki could not tell, or hardly imagine, how long he had been to sleep. Two or
                     three hours might have passed away, or hardly twenty minutes; to him, "time
                        was." The sound that arose was sickening, terrible. He felt for
                     his pistols; to his surprise—we will not write dismay—they were
                        gone! An instant's thought brought back his presence of mind. Had
                        murder been the intention of those who had deprived him of his
                     pistols, he thought, they could have as easily deprived him of life as of his
                     weapons.
                  Little did he know that his life had hung upon a thread, whilst he slept. But
                     for the stern interference of the old woman, who had taken a strange fancy to
                     the blunt soldier for his apparent confidence in her protection, he would have
                     been murdered. The events were briefly these:—
                  When Ki had laid himself down to sleep in the adjoining room, the old woman,
                     his hostess, drew a chair to the fire, and, after raking up the brands, lit a
                     pipe, which she commenced smoking, and her mind run thus:—
                  "I don't know exactly what the boys may bring home; I know they won't like it,
                     that I've let a stranger stop to-night—that's sartain. If they think of takin'
                     the pedlar, and should bring him here, I reckon thar might be some kind o'
                     diffikilty. But he's gen'rous, mighty gen'rous, and paid a gold guinny for just
                     a meal o' biled pork and a night's lodgin's. He ain't got no fear o' granny
                     Grimston and her three reprobative sons, as the neighbors call us, and now I'll
                     show that the 'old granny' ain't bad hearted neither. He shan't
                     suffer death, any how, that's sartain."
                  Amid the blast and the storm, creeping through the crevices, came a loud, clear
                     whistle, like the notes of a quail in autumn. It was repeated. The old woman
                     started up, and went towards the door. The tramp of a horse and the sound of
                     wheels was next heard, followed by three distinct raps, yet not loud, against
                     the door.
                  "The lads have come here at last," she said. "I hope they ain't found it yet
                     awhile a necessity to kill them as they rob."
                  She opened the door, and two men were seen bearing in their arms the body of a
                     third person, whose head was terribly bruised, and the blood dropped freely
                     therefrom.
                  "Oh! gracious," she said, "which is it, Josh, Jothan, or Jacob; oh! dear, oh!
                     dear, which is it, speak straight out."
                  "Neither on us, mother; this is the body of the pedlar. Jake is gone with the
                     wagon and horse to the shed. We're all safe."
                  "God be thanked!" said the old woman.
                  It is a strange thing, in human nature, to thank a higher power for the
                     preservation of those we love so selfishly, no matter if crime "hang upon their
                     skirts." This old woman, with all her vices, loved her offspring, and wished
                     and prayed that, even though murderers, they might be safe.
                  The two young men entered without ceremony, and placed the almost lifeless body
                     which they bore in a chair that stood near the fire. Strapping youths, indeed,
                     were Josh and Jotham; neither of them older than three-and-twenty, powerful in
                     form and stature. Their countenances were, however, coarsely moulded, partaking
                     more of the animal, than mental 
                        phsiognomy
                        physiognomy
                     .
                  "But how did he get all over blood, boys; did he make fight?"
                  "No, no, mother. A flash of lightning took away any need of our bleedin' him,
                     for his horse got skeart, and threw him out, just as you see him
                     now. All we had to do was to take the wagon, and bring him along."
                  "Why didn't you let him lie in the road and die? If God sends accidents, what
                     have we got to do with't?"
                  "Why, mother, you don't know everything," answered the youngest, called Josh.
                     "If we'd left the body lyin' in the road, don't you see, he'd bin found in the
                     mornin', and then there'd bin searching arter his wagon and things. Now, we've
                     got him and all, and no one won't know what's come on the pedlar. He'll die,
                     and then we'll stick him under ground, and ain't his goods our'n then, I should
                     like to know?"
                  "Hush! don't speak so loud, Josh," replied his amiable parent; "I like to
                     forgot, there's a strange man in your bed there."
                  This was said in a short whisper, for she had, for the moment, not thought of
                     the lodger.
                  "A strange man! and what's he doing here, I should like to know? Mam, if you
                     dare to betray us, I shan't know flesh and blood, not I, mam."
                  "Josh, you're an ungrateful hound, and my fav'rite at that. No, the lodger is a
                     stranger—a continental officer; he's got plenty o' gold too, and that's
                     strange. Only think, he give'd me a gold guinney for a meal and his lodgins.
                     An't that somethin'?"
                  "Yes," replied the elder of the two, Jotham, who had now spoken for the first
                     time, "pr'aps he's one of them whig spies spent on by the town committee to
                     watch us. If he is, mammy, he shan't never go out alive."
                  "No, that he don't; let's take a peep at him, Jotham; be on your guard, too."
                     This was said by Josh, and he drew a long knife from a sheath, called, seventy
                     years ago, a "buck knife," often used in the bushes when deer hunting. The two
                     advanced toward the door.
                  The old woman rose to her full height, and strode between her sons and the
                     entrance to Ki's bed chamber.
                  "Stop, boys, where you are—you shan't do no sitch thing," she said, menacingly.
                     "Let me go in first, and see if he is asleep. Keep still—you shan't harm him,
                     unless he's like to get us into danger; if he is, why, we may as well do the
                     right thing when the time comes—that is, boys, if we can't get along
                     without."
                  She opened the door of the bed-room softly, and entered, whilst her two sons,
                     with lifted weapons and open ears, awaited but the slightest noise to rush in
                     and commit murder, if necessary.
                  All was still, save the heavy breathing of the insensible pedlar in the chair,
                     and the heavy pattering of the rain without.
                  "He's fast asleep—fast enough," said the old woman, returning again to the main
                     room, and carefully closing the door. "See, I've got his pistols, so that he
                     an't no weapons to use if he wakes up. I took care, hows'ever, to knock the
                     primin' out of 'em, afore he went to bed, without his knowledge."
                  "Knock the primin' out, mam," said Josh, with a sneer, as he opened the pan of
                     one of the pistols; "what do you call that then?—it's powder, I reckon. How's
                     that one o' yours, Jotham?"
                  "Ready primed, too. He's too much for you, mammy."
                  "The varmint," said the old hag, with a revengeful expression, "then he's a
                     suspectful chap about us—so we must look out. Since he's come to spy us out,
                     we'll have him—body, guinneys and all."
                  She had just ceased speaking, when the outer door opened, and the elder of the
                     three brothers, Jake, came in, dripping with rain. His size, if anything, was
                     greater than his brothers, and his shoulders of immense breadth.
                  "By the living Satan," he said, as he shook himself like a water dog, "but it
                     pours down like a catterack. How's the pedlar, boys? I hope he an't goin' to
                     get over the affliction that the lightnin' did, anyhow. If he does, there's a
                     short way left. I say, mother, you got any supper? I'm hungry as an ox that
                     ain't tasted hay nor grass pastur' for two days. Where's the 'stone
                        fence?'"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *A cent name for cider-brandy, which New Jersey has ever been famous for
                        distilling; particularly before temperance societies were in vogue.
                  
                  The old woman, his mother, motioned him to silence, and repeated, in a whisper,
                     what she had already told his brothers respecting the lodger.
                  "So, so—a spy, you think; well, well, he and the pedler, I reckon, can find a
                     bed at the bottom of the pond, along with the rest of the lodgers, and lie as
                     quiet, too, if it comes to that. But, bring out the vittles and drink, d'ye
                     hear, mother."
                  She placed upon the table the huge platter of food from which Ki had made his
                     meal before he retired, and, in addition, brought forth a two gallon jug, with
                     a proper quantum of cups for her boys.
                  The three, before tasting the food, turned from the jug into their respective
                     cups, a good allowance of the distilled spirit, which they swallowed without
                     adding any water thereto—a quantity, in its natural state, strong enough to
                     upset the reason of men unaccustomed to drink it, but these strapping fellows
                     had been used to the fiery beverage almost from 
                        infaney
                        infancy
                     .
                  Whilst they continued eating, the mother kept watch at the door of Ki's room,
                     ready to give notice on the instant, if he moved or stirred. Strange, that
                     although the poor pedler in the chair, unconscious of his accident, dropped
                     blood from his mangled body upon the floor, these gormandizing wolves devoured
                     their food, and drank deeply of the alcoholic jug before them, without
                     bestowing a thought upon the heavy breathing of the suffering man, or, if they
                     did, it was to hope that his death would soon take place.
                  Education they had none, not even what now-a-days would be called primary. The
                     eldest could read print a little and scrawl his own name, the other two could
                     spell out a word here and there, at a pinch. Brought up in ignorance, labor was
                     to them a persecution, and they never worked unless when starvation was
                     absolutely before them.
                  The father of these precious youths had been a soldier under Braddock, and was afterwards killed in the unsuccessful
                     attack made upon Havana, during the short war with Spain, by the British fleet
                     and the troops from the North American Colonies. Of a strong but naturally
                     depraved mind, the mother reared up her children on the little plot of ground
                     in New Jersey that had been left her; and, through idleness and ignorance, they
                     became vagabonds, stealing from their neighbors' corn-fields and sheep pastures
                     rather than work. The boys had all of them suffered at the county whipping
                     post, more or less, for the petty crimes they had committed, and it was
                     supposed, for there was no proof positive, that several strange disappearances
                     of pedlars and travellers, they knew how to account for.
                  They were feared as well as hated, mother and all, by the neighbors for many
                     miles around. The mother, to whom our readers have already been introduced, was
                     the "iron band" that held the family together. Placed in the same position of
                     power and rank—a throne—she would have been a Joanna of Sicily, or a Mary de
                     Medicis of France. The acts of humble life are, to close examiners, but mere
                     epitomes of the history of the great. The movements of human kind, high or low,
                     are regulated by the same species of action. The leader of a dozen brigands, or
                     the petty thief that steals a sixpence, are, in many instances, actuated by the
                     same motives that led a Hannibal to victory, or an Alaric to plunder and steal
                     on a great scale the wealth of cities. It is hard, in many cases, to draw a
                     distinction between conquerors of nations or petty rogues.
                  Frequent draughts from the jug, with less trials of the food on which they had
                     dulled their appetites, led the three young men to converse more freely and
                     loudly than they should have done under the circumstances.
                  "I tell ye what it is, mother, the boxes in the wagon are full o' goods. The
                     pedlar ain't sold a thing since he left Philadelphy. We hav'nt made such a haul
                     since I was high enough to know how to tell a pedlar. You'll find some rare
                     caliker and chintz things for gownds, to last a couple o' years at least."
                  "Yes, and silk hankerchers, ra'al silk, mam, I reckon, too," said Josh. "I saw
                     'em when I peeped in, jist as he opened the big part o' the wagon to show the
                     Squire's gals, down at the Hall, as they call it, in their stuck up talk. None
                     on 'em saw me behind the garden fence and currant bushes."
                  "Didn't I," said Jotham, not to be behind his brother—"didn't I meet him on the
                     road, and advise him to take the short cut he did, to get rid of the
                     continental recruiters—thieves, I tell'd him they all was—so as he would be
                     sure to tumble into our hands? Let Jo. alone when there's anything to be
                     done."
                  "You are nice lads, all on you," said the old Harridan—"nice lads, and
                     I'd—"
                  A deep groan was heard, the pedlar opened his eyes, looked round, and rose from
                     his seat. The sight was hideous, for he was covered with clotted blood; but his
                     senses were returning, for he said, in a feeble tone:—
                  "Where am I—among friends, I hope?"
                  The old woman alone was calm; she raised her finger, and said, in a low tone,
                     but without the least emotion:—
                  "It's got to be done, boys. Jake, you are the oldest and biggest—don't make any
                     noise—choke him to death."
                  Jake got up from his seat quietly, his brothers standing ready to aid him,
                     whilst the mother, with one of Ki's pistols in hand, took her station at the
                     bed-room door. Jake went up to the poor, bewildered, wounded pedlar, pulled him
                     down in his chair, and in an instant clasped his enormous hands around the neck
                     of his victim, tightening it as if in a vice.
                  Then came that gurgling of the breath, which aroused Ki in the adjoining
                     room—the dying gasp of the victim of that hellish crew! He listened for an
                     instant, rushed to the door, opened it, and the whole scene was before him.
                     With one hand he cast aside the hag that guarded the passage, as if she had
                     been a wheaten straw, and with the other seized a chair. "Ah! murderers!" he
                     said, and, with one swing of the chair, he knocked down the ruffian Jake, and
                     then turned upon the brothers.
                  The old woman, however, was on the alert, like a tigress in defence of her
                     cubs. She uttered a scream of rage, and fired the pistol. The ball passed
                     through the fleshy part of the right thigh of Ki, grazing the bone, which
                     brought him instantly on his knee near the fire. He bethought himself, in an
                     instant, of the words of President Hancock, at parting, about spies, and,
                     drawing the package of dispatches from his breast, threw it into the fire. The
                     quick flame encircled around the paper, and soon consumed it.
                  "There, wretches, do your worst now!" shouted Ki, as he endeavored to rise,
                     still brandishing the chair. But the wound was too severe, and the whole
                     four—the old hag the most violent of all—pressed him so closely that it was
                     impossible for him to escape being overpowered. Jake threw himself behind Ki,
                     and seized him by the shoulders, and pulled him backwards, whilst Josh and
                     Jotham, advancing in front, completed the victory. Three powerful men, and
                     armed, were too much for Ki, wounded as he was, and the victory was soon
                     complete. Two of the ruffians knelt upon his breast, whilst the third held a
                     pistol to his head, which he was about to discharge, when the old woman
                     exclaimed:—
                  "Don't kill him—tie his hands and legs, and drag him down cellar. We'll let him
                     starve to death. That's the way to pay off continental chaps like him, that
                     comes to spy us out, and see us hang up like so many strings o' onions. Let's
                     starve him to death."
                  Ki's hands and feet were soon bound with a strong rope, and he was thrown,
                     rather than dragged down to the cellar beneath the building, thrilling with
                     pain as he struck the earth in the dark and caverned hole of his
                     confinement.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIII.
                  WATKINS, THE SPY.
                  It is now, perhaps, time that we should return to the escape of Watkins, the
                     English spy, at the time the pursuit was made for him when he fired at Ki and
                     the party of Fairfax, previous to the capture of Speicht, and the burning of
                     the Hanoverian's house.
                  He was not long in getting out of hearing of the guns of the attacking party,
                     and taking an intricate path through the woods, he stopped not till he found
                     himself some five miles from the dwelling of the Hanoverian. It was a rough,
                     rocky hill, in the centre of the woods, covered with stunted oak and butternut
                     trees, and thick underbrush. Rocks were piled up here and there, as if rudely
                     cast asunder at some remote date by the convulsions of nature, perhaps when the
                     earth was in its infancy.
                  The spot was such an one as a party of brigands might be supposed to select for
                     a retreat or peculiar rendezvous. Watkins toiled up nearly to the summit
                     through the bushes, till he came to a huge rock that rose perpendicular nearly
                     fifty feet. There was a fissure in the centre, barely wide enough to admit a
                     man, which, without a close glance, could not be observed, for a few wild vines
                     had grown up, and in summer, their leaves nearly concealed the entrance.
                  Watkins paused and looked around. Nothing was heard but the drumming of a
                     partridge on some hollow log afar off, and the shrill chuck of the speckled
                     wood-thrush, as he flitted amid the bushes. After remaining quiet a little
                     while, he went towards the fissure, drew aside the vines, and entered the
                     cleft.
                  Passing a few feet, the rock opened wide enough to hold some five or six
                     persons comfortably, the light entering from the opening at the top, where the
                     sky was plainly seen. A portion of the rock formed a recess, whether made by
                     nature or art it was impossible to say, where one person could keep himself
                     hidden from a storm.
                  Watkins carefully examined the recess to see if all was safe as when he left
                     it. On a small ledge he observed a letter. Seizing it hastily, he read the
                     inscription. It was addressed "To his Excellency, General Gage,
                     Commander-in-Chief, &c., &c."
                  "Ah! then one part of my business out of camp is accomplished. The letter has
                     been left as promised. Now, then, to get into Boston with the messages. I shall
                     get one-half of the guineas, come what will."
                  From the recess he drew a homespun dress of the coarsest kind, and proceeded to
                     disrobe himself of the clothes he then wore, putting on others in their stead.
                     The metamorphoses was complete, as far as his body went, and when he put on a
                     fox-skin cap, with a wide front, that nearly concealed his face, it would have
                     been difficult to have recognized the villain Watkins.
                  He drew a single mark on the tree or rock, some understood signal between
                     himself and others, when it should be seen, and left the fissure, bearing a
                     stout hickory staff in his hand, instead of the gun, which he had brought from
                     the hut of Speicht. He struck a rude forest path, at no great distance from the
                     place of his retreat, and for the first hour walked rapidly to get out of the
                     woods, so as to reach the main road.
                  This he succeeded in doing at the spot in the road he intended, after an hour
                     and a half's travel. He stopped at a small farmhouse, and asked the mistress
                     for a drink of milk, which was given him as soon as called for, with an
                     inquiry—
                  "Won't you have some bread and butter and a piece o' pie—you're heartily
                     welcome," said the woman, in a kind tone.
                  Watkins went to the door, and looked at the sun, which was gradually sinking in
                     the west, for the afternoon was within two hours of its close.
                  "Well, mistress, I will, but I must be quick, for I've yet some distance to go
                     before night sets in."
                  "Eat as quick as you please, it's all ready," and she soon placed before him a
                     loaf of fresh rye bread, with butter just made, a noble apple pie, and a mug of
                     eider.
                  "You're goin' to camp, I guess?"
                  "Yes, mistress," he replied, while eating, "I am going
                     to—camp"
                  "I thought as much; my old man's down there on a short tower of
                     sojerin'. He's a minuter."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Many of the New England militia were called minute men, who
                        were ordered out for a few days' duty, and were always prepared to go at
                        an instant's notice. Hence the term "minute men."
                  
                  "He's a rebel, then?"
                  "Rebel! la, he's a patriot, he's for his country; ain't you?" and the good
                     woman looked at him as if she hoped the food would choke him if he was not of
                     the same party with her husband.
                  "Oh! yes," replied Watkins, recovering from his slip, "I'm for my
                     country. King George's officers, you know, call us Yankee
                     rebels."
                  "Yes, rot take 'em, I know they do. I guess they don't like 'em much, nyther,
                     since Bunker's Hill. Ain't you from Connecticut, or down that way?"
                  "Yes, I'm from down that way."
                  "Wa'al, I don't expect the old man back from camp for three days yet. His name,
                     I s'pose you don't know it, is Elijah Gorton—Uncle 'Lije Gorton, some call
                     him—he's in Capt'n Siah Olney's company, Gin'ral Green's rigiment, Curnel Nat
                     Green that was, the Quaker blacksmith down there at the iron works. I reckon
                     you've hearn speak of him?"
                  "Yes, I have heard of General Green."
                  "So I calculated. Wa'al, if you should see the old man, tell him all's right to
                     hum. 'Lije, that's my oldest boy, tends to all the chores as comfortable as if
                     his dad was on the farm. Tell him I've made a swop of the old mare for Squire
                     Arnold's cow, and I rather guess I made the best o' the bargain, for the old
                     mare was a leetle lame."
                  "I will, I will, as soon as I see him," said Watkins, anxious to break off the
                     conversation, for he had some questions to ask of his own.
                  
                  "Wa'al, don't forget, now; Uncle 'Lije Gorton, Capt'n Siah Olney's company,
                     Gin'ral—"
                  "Yes, yes, I remember. Thank you for your dinner. Have there been any troops
                     out of camp this morning?"
                  "Yes, there was—airly in the morning."
                  "Horsemen?" inquired Watkins, anxiously.
                  "Yes, I reckon they was—Drag-goons, I think they called 'em, though I didn't
                     see 'em drag anything."
                  "And they have'nt returned?"
                  "No, though I did hear one of the ossifers, a pesky tall man he was, say to
                     another he reckon'd they'd be back this way some time in the arternoon."
                  Watkins seized his stick, looked hastily up and down the road, and merely
                     saying "Good bye, ma'am, I'll remember Uncle 'Lije," walked rapidly down the
                     road, in the direction of the camp.
                  Watkins walked swiftly until a turn of the road took him out of sight of the
                     farm-house, when he got over a fence that skirted the road, and went on
                     parallel with the highway, but still keeping a respectful distance, so as to
                     give him a chance of escaping into the woods in case of danger.
                  "The party is on the road," he murmured to himself, "and the sun but an hour
                     high. By —, if I ever have an opportunity to get that most cursed of all the
                     rebels, Ki Lane, into my power, I'll torture him to death by inches. But for
                     him I should have had revenge on more than one that I have sworn to
                     exterminate. Revenge, sweet, sweet revenge. It's capital that, long as I have
                     been in the regiment, no one suspects who I am. How they would stare if they
                     really knew who Watkins was.
                  The distant sound of a trumpet's blast, borne by the faint breeze, came
                     swelling along the road, with gentle note, and died afar off amid the hills,
                     which reared their green sides beyond the valley.
                  "That sound appears to come from the road, in the direction of the rebel camp;
                     so it cannot be the party returning from Speicht's," he said.
                  Again the shrill blast arose, but this time much nearer than before, and the
                     trampling of a body of horse was distinctly heard advancing from the direction
                     Watkins had supposed. Approaching a stone wall that skirted the road, where a
                     thicket of sumach and hazel bushes concealed him from sight, Watkins knelt down
                     to reconnoitre the party, now within a few minutes' ride of the spot where he
                     lay concealed. A cloud of dust upon the road denoted that the party was
                     somewhat numerous.
                  First came a trumpeter, whose blue coat and red facings, the horse hair
                     streaming from his helmet, denoted him to be one of the corps then just
                     organized, afterwards so well known as "Washington's Life Guard."*
                      Two soldiers, similarly uniformed, rode directly behind the trumpeter;
                     then came the officer in command, followed by some thirty of the body guard,
                     three abreast.
                  
                     
                     *This corps was always under a Major's command. It generally consisted,
                        during the revolution, of two squadrons of horse and four companies of
                        foot. The men and officers were selected for their fine appearance.
                  
                  At a distance of some ten yards from the escort, on a noble white charger of
                     pure breed—tall and stately, with a simple cockade and no feather in his broad
                     Kevenhuller hat or chapeau, dressed in the simple yet becoming uniform of blue
                     and buff of a continental general officer—sat the GREAT MAN of his age and
                     time. By his side rode Col. Read, his Secretary, and John Trumbull, then acting
                        Aid-de-Camp to the Commander-in-Chief.
                  As the General came abreast of the wall and bushes behind which Watkins was
                     concealed, the latter rested his stick upon the ledge of the wall, and took
                     deliberate aim, as if his eye rested upon the sight of a gun. When the officer
                     and his staff had passed by, he said to himself:—
                  "Pshaw! I can't kill a man with a ball from a hickory stick, that's certain.
                     How easy might I have taken off the rebel General had this stick been only a
                     king's arm. Perhaps it's as well—he hasn't done me any harm—not
                     half so much as some of my own countrymen, d—n 'em. Now that the party has got
                     by, I may as well make for the water side as quick as possible, for I've got
                     something of a tramp yet before the sun gets behind the hills." He again
                     entered the road, the sound of the dragoon's trumpet indicating that the
                     General and his escort were far enough passed to ensure his own safety.
                  Watkins pursued his journey with the utmost haste, yet keeping his ears open
                     and his eyes about him. He knew that danger was in his path, yet reckless in
                     gaining his ends, but cunning as a fox withal, hitherto he had escaped capture.
                     It was his intention to gain the water side not far from Cambridge, where he
                     expected to find a sate conveyance, after nightfall, across the water to
                     Cambridge.
                  The sun had got behind the hills, and the dusks of night were dimly gathering
                     over the landscape, when Watkins, in passing an abrupt turn in the road,
                     suddenly found himself in the presence of four or five dismounted troopers,
                     whose horses were strolling about, nibbling the green herbage that grew by the
                     road side. His first thought was to turn and fly, but he had been perceived,
                     and one of the troopers shouted in a loud voice, "make haste."
                  He was too near within reach of the dragoon's pistols to hesitate, so he
                     advanced with quick and bold steps towards the party. A nearer view exhibited
                     to him an officer stretched upon the ground, insensible, and two of the men
                     were bathing and rubbing his temples.
                  "Has the doctor got here at last?" said one of the men thus engaged, without
                     raising his head.
                  "Yes—no—who are you? Where is the doctor?"
                  "That's not the countryman, Dan, that started off when the Cornet got hurt—he's
                     somebody else."
                  "I see now—who are you, Mister?"
                  "A minute man, going to camp to see my brother among the Rhode Islanders,"
                     boldly answered Watkins.
                  "You minute men are everywhere but where you should be," answered the man,
                     peevishly, who appeared to be the spokesman of the party. "Do you know of a
                     doctor hereabouts?—the camp is too far off to send for a surgeon."
                  "No, I'm a stranger in these parts, and don't know any one about here at
                     all."
                  "You say you are going to camp?"
                  "Yes—that's my way."
                  "Well, as you look like a stout, able-bodied fellow, you shall have something
                     to carry by the road—for we can't allow any idlers in our company. Dick, Bill,
                     get over the fence there, a couple of you, and cut down some brushes for a
                     litter; if we wait for a surgeon, the Cornet will die before he arrives—so we
                     may as well go back to camp."
                  "I'll go on and tell the sojers you are coming," said Watkins, with the most
                     assumed simplicity.
                  "No you won't, Mister minute man, as you call yourself. I'll press you into the
                     service to carry one end of the litter that is to hold the wounded body of
                     Cornet Cobb, of the Commander-in-Chief's guards. Look after him, Ned."
                  Watkins had no other course left but to remain—if not exactly a prisoner in
                     reality one in fact, for he was detained much against his own will and consent.
                     He dreaded the detention the more because he knew it would be late, very late,
                     before they reached Cambridge, and it would be impossible for him then to get
                     into Boston as he intended, that night, at least. Still he hoped for the best,
                     determined to watch his opportunity and escape, if possible, for, although
                     disguised, he feared there might be some one in the American camp that would
                     recognize him if detained until next day.
                  "Give me a lift," said the non-commissioned officer, "let's carry the Cornet to
                     a softer part of the bank. There, gently, that will do, my good fellow. You
                     handle him as if you were used to lifting wounded men."
                  "Yes, mister sojer, I had a little experience that way about Bunker's Hill
                     time," said Watkins, with the utmost coolness. "How came your officer
                     hurt?"
                  "Great speed and a baulky horse that shied at something on the road, pitching
                     the Cornet out of his saddle like a baby. So much for riding with a loose rein.
                     But I say, did you meet with the General and his guard as you came down the
                     road?"
                  "The General?"
                  "Yes, Washington—he couldn't have been more than a couple of miles ahead of us
                     when this accident happened."
                  "Oh! yes—I recollect now—I did meet him with some forty or fifty horsemen. And
                     now I think on't, their uniform was the same as your'n."
                  "Exactly," replied his questioner, glancing at his own uniform with much
                     satisfaction, "we belong to the General's body guard."
                  "The General and his party were riding pretty fast, I guess they were on some
                     partick'lar business, they galloped so quick."
                  Watkins, like a cunning fellow, thought that this remark would draw out
                     something in reply, nor was he mistaken.
                  "Yes, that's the reason we were in a hurry to overtake him. The Cornet there
                     had a message for the General, I believe, that would have taken him back to
                     camp and saved his farther journey."
                  "Why don't you send one of your men after him, then—he can overtake him. I'll
                     show him the road."
                  "Will you? Well, that is a good one. No, no; you are entirely too willing.
                     Sergeant Ironsides knows his duty too well to take upon himself such an order,
                     or trust strangers. No, no, the General will be back soon enough, and you go on
                     with us to camp."
                  "Well, I suppose, Sergeant, I'll get pay for it. I've rights as well as you,
                     and there's no law will compel me to help carry that litter, for I ain't one o'
                     the regulars."
                  "We'll talk about pay when you get through. As for the camp, there you
                        shall go, for you are within the bounds, and, I imagine, if the
                     truth was told, you know it very well. If you've got a pass, that's another
                     thing."
                  Watkins winced when he heard the last sentence spoken by the Sergeant, for he
                     had no pass, and he knew that he was liable to be arrested anywhere within the
                     circuit of the camp, if he did not possess that necessary document.
                  "Oh! never fear, Sergeant," he said, as quietly as he could under the
                     circumstances. I don't lack humanity, and am perfectly willing to take a hand
                     at the litter to help the wounded officer."
                  "See that you are, if you want good treatment and a hot supper when we get to
                     Cambridge. Ah! here is the litter. Really it's quite decently made considering
                     you ain't used to such matters, lads. You'll know well enough, I reckon, before
                     the war is over. Gently now, gently."
                  The wounded officer was placed carefully in the litter, and the Sergeant
                     mounted his horse, as did his comrades, with the exception of the soldier who
                     was to aid Watkins until relieved. Two of the horsemen rode behind, the litter
                     being carried in the centre, and in this manner they went towards the camp.
                     During the two hours occupied in the journey. Watkins was relieved three times,
                     but no opportunity offered for his escape, and his feelings were anything but
                     pleasant, when they were challenged by the sentinel, and the party admitted
                     within the lines.
                  The officer was taken to the hospital—or a building occupied as such, for the
                     army—where, though still insensible, the sufferer's wounds were pronounced not
                     dangerous, if there was no internal injury.
                  "Now, Mister, what's your name—eh?" said the Sergeant to Watkins. The latter,
                     to gain time in which to think of a name, pretended not to hear, and the
                     question was repeated in a louder tone.
                  "Oh! me—I thought you was speaking to some one else; my name is Content
                     Jenkins—it's an odd name, Content, isn't it?"
                  "I reckon it is. I suppose, when you was born, the old folks were content without any more offspring—they ought to
                     have been. But, come along, I feel hungry—let's see what the lads have got for
                     supper to-night. You shall have your share, for you did your duty quite
                     faithfully, considering there was a horse treading on your heels every time you
                     felt a little lazy."
                  Watkins would have given no small sum to have been excused, and out of camp;
                     but his main chance for safety depended upon cool impudence—and this he
                     possessed in no small degree—so he very quietly followed the Sergeant to his
                     quarters, so the latter called a rough board hut, which had been hastily
                     erected, containing one room, that 
                        
                           "Answered for kitchen,
                           For parlor, and hall."
                        
                     
                  
                  Three men, in the same uniform as the Sergeant, were found within, one of whom
                     was busily engaged in turning a wooden spit holding a joint of mutton before
                     the fire, and covering with hot embers some potatoes roasting in the ashes.
                  "Ah! lads, that meat has a savory smell—not quite equal to a haunch of Virginia
                     venison, though. Who was the thief to-day?—he's a good fellow, at any
                     rate—that's my opinion."
                  "Ask Yankee Zeke, there," replied the soldier at the spit, with a comic
                     grin.
                  "Waal, Sargeant," said the soldier called Zeke, with a strong "down east"
                     accent, "I was one o' the forrigers out this arternoon, and, somehow or nuther,
                     the sheep that that jinte b'longed tew had a lamb, and the lamb got killed
                     like, by the forrigers, accidentally, perhaps, sartainly, I guess—so, when the
                     mother set up a bahin' like all Ebenezer, my gun went off, and, thunder take
                     it, the old sheep dropt right down dead. I told the Leftenant, I guessed t'was
                     kinder sympathetic like. He didn't say much, but I kalkilate he thought a
                     leetle—hows'ever, tew on us got the sheep, so we divided it intew four parts,
                     and that's one of 'em roasting there; it smells mighty nice, any how, Sargeant,
                     don't it, now?"
                  "I'll tell you better how it tastes, Zeke, by and bye. But out with the spirits
                     and water; let's see how it will go."
                  The spirits were brought out—a class of spirits, that soldiers are
                     never afraid to meet, and placed upon the board.
                  "Come, Mister Jinkins, take off that fox-skin, that hides your beauty, and
                     taste a bowl with us, before we try Zeke's mutton."
                  Watkins, as requested, took off his fox-skin cap, threw it down in one corner,
                     and looked bold and fearless in the face of the Sergeant.
                  "By old Virginny! Jinkins," said the Sergeant, as he scanned Watkins' face
                     thoroughly, "I can't say much for your beauty, but that's nyther here nor
                     there; I've seen an ugly stocked rifle, that had the best and truest barrel
                     this side the Blue Mountains; here's to you, any how, and a speedy recovery of
                     the Cornet, towards which you have done your share, Jinkins." He drank.
                  "Thank you, Mr. Sargeant, here's to us all," and Watkins raised the bowl*
                      to his lips, from which he drank sparingly, for he knew he had much to
                      do for his own safety.
                  
                     
                     *It was the custom, seventy years ago, in taverns and elsewhere, when
                        three or four were together, to mix the liquor in a quart or two gallon
                        bowl, and each one drank from it. Mugs were sometimes used, but glass
                        tumblers were a rarity.
                  
                  As the Sergeant will figure hereafter in these pages, we may as well give
                     something of his history. Dan Ironsides was about forty years old, a native of
                     Virginia. Twenty years previous, in 1755, he enlisted in the provincials or
                     rangers, commanded by Col. Washington, and was with him at the defeat and death
                     of Braddock, near Fort du Quesne, in that year. Loving his young commander with
                     the devotion of an Indian for his idol, he remained in service until the
                     rangers were disbanded, at the peace between England and France, in 1673.
                  Receiving, with the rest of the rangers, for their services, a grant of land
                     from the assembly of Virginia, he built a small log cabin on the mountain's
                     side, and became a trapper and huntsman, one of the most idle yet happy of
                     lives, let civilized men say what they will. When Dan Ironsides heard that
                     Washington had been appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Forces, he
                     shouldered his rifle to join his old leader, in the camp at Cambridge.
                  Pleased with his devotion, Washington gave him a Sergeant's appointment in his
                     newly organized Guard, so as to keep him immediately about his person.
                     Ironsides had one failing, considered by many over good people about the worst
                     in the calendar—he would now and then take a little too much whiskey and water,
                     or rather, perhaps, too little water and too much whiskey—at any rate, when
                     under this kind of spiritual influence, he was apt to be noisy,
                     but never ill-natured or quarrelsome.
                  "There," said the Sergeant, setting down the bowl after a second trial of the
                     grog, "I can drink as often as I choose, for, thank the Cornet's ill-luck, I'm
                     off duty to-night. I don't know why I should like whiskey so, unless it was a
                     nat'ral love. Come, you lazy cook, there, isn't that mutton done."
                  "To a turn, Sergeant," was the reply, "each man take his pewter plate and knife
                     and fork—them as hasn't got any, must eat with their fingers, that's all."
                  The mutton was dished on a rough wooden trencher, the roast potatoes were dug
                     out from the embers, and the three soldiers and their guest, went to work at
                     the food, without much regard to fashion, but an extraordinary display of
                     appetite. Joke and jest passed round, though Watkins was a listener rather than
                     a speaker—he was fearful, cunning as he was, that he might let fall some word
                     that would betray his real character.
                  "Why, you don't drink, Jinkins. I don't wonder, I've emptied the bowl as sure
                     as old Virginny is old Virginny. Mix it full again, Zeke, my Yankee favorite.
                     Tol lol, tol lol, I'm not on duty to-night."
                  The Sergeant was just getting merry over his meat and drink.
                  "I can't drink much more, Sergeant. My head's pretty soft in the way o'
                     drinkin'."
                  "And so you think, Jinkins, whiskey will melt it? Why, I've swallowed whiskey,
                     man and boy, not far from forty years, and my head is as hard as a Goose Creek
                     nigger's. Here, Zeke, take away this mutton, or what there is left on't, and
                     that's mainly bone. Bring on the bowl, let's water the roots of the Liberty
                     Tree of freedom—hurrah!" The Sergeant was getting in the first stage of his
                     uproariousness.
                  "There 'tis, Sergeant," said Zeke; "if you ain't goin' on duty to-night, that
                     bowl is, sartin sure."
                  "Yes, and may the bowl ever be on such duty. Now, Jinkins, take the first
                     swallow, d'ye hear—let it be a throat swamper, too—none o' your women swallows,
                     a drop at a time—hurrah!"
                  Watkins took up the bowl, and pretended to drink for some time. He took,
                     however, but a few sips.
                  "That's it, Jinkins," said the Sergeant—"you'll be one of us, by and by; what
                     do you say to enlisting—prehaps, if you behave tolerably well, you may get into
                     the Guards? I've some influence with the General—I fought under him when that
                     red-coated Braddock wouldn't listen to reason, and let the Frenchers and Injins
                     thrash him; he got killed—sarved him right; but that's twenty years ago. Pass
                     me the bowl, Jinkins, I'm getting dry." There was evidently a diminution of the
                     contents when Sergeant Ironsides replaced it on the table.
                  The comrades of the Sergeant, much to Watkins' gratification, were detailed for
                     duty in the fore part of the night, and, therefore, had to report themselves to
                     the officer of the guard. They soon left the Sergeant's quarters, and there
                     only remained Ironsides, Watkins, and the bowl of grog, a boon companion-
                  "Let them go," said the Sergeant, "we'll have the more to drink ourselves. Ah!
                     Jinkins, war is a great trade—it's here to-morrow and gone to-day (the brain of
                     the soldier was getting somewhat fuddled;) yes, Jink—Jinkins, it's worse than
                     the small pox—for that doesn't come twice; but the more you fight, the more
                     you've got to. But there's one thing, Jinkins, when you get a ball through your
                     head, it's all over—you walk into eternity without being polite enough to knock
                     at the door. Pass me the bowl, Jink—Jinkins."
                  He was now in the second stage of drunkenness, and Watkins failed not to ply
                     him with his own favorite beverage, for he wished the Sergeant to fall asleep,
                     and then it was his intention to leave the house, and, if possible, escape
                     through the sentries to the water-side, and make his way over to Boston.
                  But Watkins was mistaken in his man, Ironsides was one of those drinkers who,
                     after reaching a certain stage, never get any more tipsy, and do not sleep
                     until they get sober. He was now reaching his last stage, denoted by his
                     extreme noisiness.
                  "Now, Jinkins, you shall hear me sing. It's a beauteous song, wrote on purpose
                     for me. I've got a voice like a mocking bird—yet, I have—another drink—ah! the
                     grog's getting low again—now open your ears for the song—it's a great one."
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              SERGEANT IRONSIDES' SONG.
                              
                                 Flags a flying, drums a beating,
                                 Way down to camp;
                                 Forward marching—ne retreating,
                                 Hear the soldiers tramp!
                                 Massachusetts is aroused—
                                 Old Virginny's comin',
                                 North and South a marching on,
                                 Don't you hear om drummin'
                                 Way down to camp.
                              
                              
                                 Some with rifles—some with guns,
                                 Some with none at all,
                                 Some without a powder horn,
                                 And nyther lead nor ball;
                                 Yet they come a marching on,
                                 Hands and hearts a steady,
                                 To fight beside brave WASHINGTON,
                                 Our General bold and ready,
                                 Down there to camp.
                              
                              
                                 At Lexington was first began
                                 The opening of the ball,
                                 A country dance the British ran,
                                 Their steps were rayther tall.
                                 Then next they tried on Bunker's Hill
                                 To dance a British jig,
                                 But scampered back so mighty quick,
                                 Poor Gage, he tore his wig
                                 Off in Boston camp.
                              
                              
                                 Flags a flying—drums a beating,
                                 Way down to camp;
                                 Forward marching—no retreating,
                                 Hear the soldiers tramp!
                                 Massachusetts is aroused—
                                 Old Virginny's comin',
                                 North and South a marching on,
                                 Don't you hear em drummin'
                                 Way down to camp.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  The voice of the Sergeant might have been heard half a mile. In vain did
                     Watkins, with alarm, endeavor to get him to sing a note or two lower—he might
                     as well have attempted to drive a stubborn mule from his oats.
                  Just as Ironsides concluded his last "Way down to camp," with a stentorian
                     flourish, the door opened, and the officer of the rounds, with three or four
                     men, entered.
                  "Good heavens, Sergeant Ironsides," he said, after a moment's pause to look
                     around him—"do you know where you are? Why, that infernal voice of your's is
                     heard down as far as head-quarters. You are bringing disgrace on your corps,
                     sir."
                  "I beg your pardon, Lieutenant," said the Sergeant, rising. "I've done—I'll be
                     as quiet as a lamb. Don't report me, sir."
                  "Well, go to bed, then. But who is this man?" he said, looking at Watkins.
                  "Oh! a countryman that helped bring Cornet Cobb into camp to-day."
                  "He must go to the guard-house, then. It is contrary to orders for strangers to
                     pass the night in camp without permission. Here, one of you men, go with
                     him."
                  "If it's all the same, Lieutenant, I'll go with him myself. He's a friend of
                     mine, and the walk will do me good, I think."
                  "Very well, only you must report at once. Don't fail."
                  "No, sir."
                  The officer left with his men, and Watkins was safe from immediate scrutiny.
                     His heart beat when he heard the order given to take him to the guard-house;
                     but, with the tipsy Sergeant as his
                     guide, he planned his escape. The night was dark, when the two sallied forth,
                     watkins and Ironsides, for the guard-house, at no great distance. Within a few
                     feet of the door, by a dexterous movement of his foot, seemingly accidental,
                     Watkins threw the Sergeant to the ground. He then stole towards the water-side,
                     and passed (keeping in the shadow) two or three sentinels, unperceived.
                  He had nearly reached the water-side, when he was challenged, in a loud
                     voice:—
                  "Who goes there?"
                  Making no reply, he dashed on; there was a rattle of the sentinel's musket to
                     his shoulder, a flash and a ball—it did not touch him. He reached the
                     water-side, and plunged in, whilst the reports of muskets, and the beating of
                     drums from the shore, announced some uncommon stir in the American camp.
                  Watkins' time had not come; he was picked up by an English man-of-war's boat,
                     that had just left Boston for a vessel in the harbor. He was safe. Sergeant
                     Ironsides passed the night in the guard-house, in the place of his guest.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIV.
                  It is, perhaps, time that we should go back to Boston, and introduce our
                     readers to some events that were taking place in that beleaguered city. Cramped
                     in room, the large bodies of troops which had arrived during the summer (for
                     the home government blindly seemed to think that Boston was the place to be
                     held of all others on the Continent) were very often in want of fresh
                     provisions, for, with the exception of the few foraging vessels that brought
                     live cattle from the Canadas and the Southern Colonies, nothing was to be
                     obtained short of England. It will appear preposterous, at the present day,
                     that hundreds, nay, thousands, of live cattle were shipped from England to
                     supply the British troops here at the commencement of the Revolutionary War,
                     yet such was the fact.
                  The British government never dreamed, at the commencement of hostilities, of a
                     long continuance of the war. The ministers supposed that the presence of a few
                     extra regiments of the line would frighten the colonists into obedience—the
                     very name of British soldier would be enough. It was owing to this state of
                        dementation, fortunately for us perhaps, that stronger efforts
                     were not made on the part of the British government to crush the so termed
                     rebellion.
                  One thing had been forgotten. For many years during the eighteenth century
                     England and France had been at war, and this war had, in a great measure, been
                     waged on the Continent of America from Quebec to the gates of Albany, and west
                     to the mountain regions of Pennsylvania and Virginia.
                  This, and the Indian wars, which had continued from the first settlement of the
                     whole continent, had given to the male population a knowledge and practice of
                     warfare; rendered them brave, hardy and independent, and capable of enduring
                     fatigue far beyond the soldiery of Europe.
                  Probably the material from whence to select an army of valiant,
                     heroic men, was never greater than that assembled under Washington during the
                     first year of his campaign, 1775-6. They came from all sections of the
                     land—bold, determined, resolute. Expert with the musket and rifle from boyhood,
                     they were soon taught the use of the bayonet and sabre, and they were ready to
                     charge with the one or strike with the other, whenever the British or Hessian
                     met them in conflict.
                  The employment of the Hessians was another of those serious follies that marked
                     the course of Lord North and his associates. The Prince of Hesse Cassel, one of
                     the petty monarch of the High Germans, as they were called in
                     contra-distinction to the Low Countries of Holland or Flanders and Brabant,
                     allowed the British monarch to recruit from his and the neighboring
                     principalities, an auxiliary force to assist the army of George the Third in
                     putting down the rebellion in America!
                  A policy like this—short-sighted, in every point of view—could not fail but
                     have its influence upon every American. The thought, that they were to have let
                     loose upon them the soldiers of a foreign power, men who were
                        hired to do legal murder, east many loyal Americans into the
                     ranks of the Continental army, who, otherwise, would have remained firm in
                     their allegiance to the King.
                  It is a fact not generally known that the first overtures made by the British
                     government for foreign subsidiaries, was to the Empress
                     Catharine, of Russia, for twenty-five thousand Russian troops to go to the
                     North American colonies, for a certain amount to be paid by England for their
                     loan, as also their transportation, pay and support, and an equivalent in money
                     for every one that should fall in battle, or not be returned to her Imperial
                     Majesty at the close of the war!
                  But for the war, which shortly after the proposition was made by the British
                     government, that broke out between Russia and Turkey, we should have had among
                     us, instead of the Knyphausens and De Reidsels of Hesse Cassel, the Swarrows,
                     the Koutosoffs, and other jaw-breaking names, commanders of the Cossacks and
                     Hulans of barbaric Russia.
                  It is supposed that during the seven years of the War of Independence, no less
                     than thirty or forty thousand Hessian soldiers were brought over to this
                     country. For the first year or two, they were valuable auxiliaries to the
                     British arms, but as they became acquainted with the Americans when prisoners,
                     and often coming in contact with the descendants of the Protestant Palatine
                     Germans, who settled in the river counties of New York, during the reign of
                     Queen Anne, and speaking partially the same language, they soon became
                     acquainted with the true merits of the rebellion, and often
                     deserted in great numbers It was supposed that Sir Henry Clinton, on his march
                     from Philadelphia to New York, through New Jersey, in 1788, before and after
                     the battle of Monmouth, lost near a thousand Hessians by desertion alone.
                  It was near the close of the day, in an apartment in the same dwelling in which
                     we have before introduced the reader; the Rev. Dr. Manners' house in Boston.
                     Two persons were present—the doctor and his daughter. The latter sat by the
                     window side, embroidering a piece of lace, though, from the frequent dropping
                     of her needle, and her rest from work, it was evident she was thinking little
                     of the embroidery. The doctor was busily engaged in reading a London newspaper,
                     one of the latest received, which had been loaned him by an officer of the
                     garrison.
                  "I see, Mary," he said, "that the ministry are determined to put down the
                     rebellion with a strong hand. In the debates in Parliament, the ministers
                     express themselves fully on the subject. A large force is now preparing to
                     leave England next spring, sufficient to crush all opposition from the
                     colonies."
                  "Perhaps so, father. I doubt if any power will do it, as long as the present
                     feeling remains among my countrymen."
                  "Foolish girl, why will you talk about your countrymen? Are not
                     all British subjects born under the crown, and bound to give allegiance to the
                     King? I am surprised, truly surprised, at this wilful disobedience on your
                     part."
                  "Wilful is a very pretty word, father," she said, in reply; "women, you know,
                     are allowed to be wilful. Why, bless me, here in this town of Boston are some
                     thousands of King's troops, furnished with every warlike equipment, superior in
                     arms and cannon, cooped up by the colonists, destitute almost of powder
                     sufficient to fire a feu de joie with their
                     Commander-in-Chief arrived at headquarters! If General Gage, a veteran soldier,
                     is thus controlled by the rebels, what have other British Generals to
                     expect?"
                  "General Gage, my dear daughter," answered the doctor, looking carefully around
                     him, "is not the greatest military commander in the world, or we never should
                     have been placed in this situation. His measures, previous to the fights at
                     Lexington and Bunker's Hill, were not of a nature to benefit the cause of
                     loyalty. There will be a new commander to head the coming expedition, it is
                     said—an officer of skill and courage—one who will speedily put down this rebel
                     uprising."
                  "And who is this second Duke of Cumberland,*
                     that is to put down rebellion so speedily?"
                        
                        *William, Duke of Cumberland, brother to George the Second. He defeated
                           Prince Charles, at the battle of Culloden, in the "rebellion" of
                           1745.
                     
                  "No Duke of Cumberland, I hope, but a brave soldier, and one who, from his
                     name, should be beloved by all Americans—Sir William Howe, who carried Bunker's
                     Hill, and brother to Lord Howe, who fell at Ticonderoga."
                  "Sir William Howe?"
                  "Yes, that is the rumor—General Gage is recalled, and will soon embark for
                     England. General Howe then assumes the command here; and when the whole force
                     destined to crush this rebellion arrives, he will assume command, and drive
                     Washington and his rebel followers before him like chaff, hanging the leaders,
                     when caught, to the nearest apple tree."
                  "Do you really mean that, father?" said Mary Manners, looking anxiously in her
                     parent's face, her voice assuming a deep tone of inquiry.
                  "Why, no, my dear girl," said the Doctor, rising, and taking Mary's hand,
                     "perhaps I expressed myself a little too strong. The law would and should make
                     a few examples, particularly among the leaders of the self-styled Congress, at
                     Philadelphia. They certainly are guilty of high treason, for their acts caused
                     the rebellion."
                  "Then how much, more criminal are his majesty's advisers in fomenting high
                     treason, by their acts towards the colonies. But for the stamp act all would
                     have been avoided. I say it," continued the high-minded girl, "and would say it
                     before his majesty, that I honor my countrymen for what they have done, and
                     were I a man, I, too, would be guilty of such high treason as the Congress and
                     Washington have committed."
                  The latter part of the remarks of Mary Manners were spoken in a haughty
                     tone,—and the flashing of her brilliant eye caused her parent even to recoil a
                     step, and drop the hand he had lifted. He loved his daughter as dearly as he
                     loved his life—for her he would sacrifice everything that the world might
                     give—and he felt abashed, yes, the parent felt abashed, before the closing
                     sentence of his daughter's words.
                  What a strange thing is loyalty! The idolatry, almost, with which the footsteps
                     of monarchy are followed. In all times and all ages, the worst of kingly rulers
                     have had their true-hearted followers. This devotion lives in the page of
                     history—it has been seen on the battle-field, in the dungeon, the scaffold! A
                     mere lump of flesh and blood, without talents, without mind, without a single
                     attribute that marks man truly great, has led to destruction the
                     bravest and the best of nations. Blind submission to the "divine right" of
                     kings! A Nero, a John, a Richard Third, and a Charles of England, could draw
                     around them hosts of followers, to perish in defence of the rights of their
                     self-called masters!—Dr. Manners was almost as loyal to George the
                     Third, but he loved his daughter better.
                  "Well, well, Mary," he said, "have your own opinion. It may be wrong for me to
                     question it, although a father's opinions should have some weight with his
                     daughter. I will say nothing more about the rebellion. I hope, however, you
                     will go with me to Quebec without murmuring, for I have accepted the offer of
                     Sir Guy Carleton as chaplain to the government of that province."
                  "Dear father, you know me too well to think that I should leave you. Let me
                     have my own opinion in regard to this conflict now raging, that is all I ask. I
                     will follow you, dear father, to the end of the world."
                  The Doctor kissed his daughter's cheek, and the tears fell as he embraced
                     her.
                  "I knew it, I knew, indeed, fair child. Be unloyal, rebellious, what you will, but love
                     your father."
                  A servant entered, and announced:
                  "His Excellency, General Gage, and Major Adair."
                  "Show them up. Dry your tears, my daughter. Let no one see our emotion. It is
                     sacred, and for us alone."
                  General Gage and Major Adair shortly after entered the room. The former, with
                     that courteous air which ever marked him, advanced first to Miss Manners,
                     merely bowing to the Doctor.
                  "Ah, my young lady, you have been quite a truant of late at the government
                     house. Our evenings have been truly dull without your presence, and the ladies
                     of the officers are now combining some plot to bring you into society again,
                     for, really, they think your face the magnet which drew, formerly, much more
                     gaiety than they find during your absence. Come, what say you?"
                  "Really, my dear General, the ladies and yourself are very complimentary to
                     poor me. It is true, I have not lately partaken of the festivities of the
                     government house. There have been many reasons."
                  "Give me one, if you please?"
                  "Lowness of spirits."
                  "The very place to have them elevated. What next?"
                  "Duties at home."
                  "They are not very arduous, I should think. Something like this, I suppose." He
                     took up the piece of embroidery. "It is really very pretty; for a lady's cap, I
                     think?—you see, a man of my age can make these inquiries without being
                     considered too inquisitive—ha, my dear young lady?"
                  "Certainly, General Gage, as we Yankees say, you have
                        guessed right. It is intended for a lady's
                     cap."
                  "Good, my young lady—impudence allowed, begets inquisitiveness still further.
                     You having allowed me the one, I shall continue the examination. It is
                     certainly not for yourself. Unmarried ladies do not wear caps."
                  "No, General Gage, it is not for myself," and, as she said this, a pleasant and
                     merry smile played upon her features.
                  "Well, well—laugh away, if it suits you, Miss Manners. Remember that I rule
                     here by martial law, and a simple command of mine can send you before a
                     court-martial—of females!"
                  "Spare me that, dear General, and you shall know what I intend to do with this
                     piece of embroidered lace."
                  "I am listening with impatient ears," said he.
                  "I am told that the wife of General Washington, one of the first ladies of
                     Virginia, is expected every day to share the quarters of her husband, in the
                     camp at Cambridge. This cap, when finished, is intended for Mrs. MARTHA
                     WASHINGTON."
                  The General said not a word. He took a pinch of snuff, looked directly in the
                     laughing eyes of Mary Manners, and turned upon his heel, with military
                     precision, shaking his fore finger in her face, to address himself to Dr.
                     Manners. Major Adair, who was conversing with the latter, gladly moved away as
                     his superior officer advanced, for it gave him an opportunity to address Mary
                     Manners.
                  "My dear cousin," said the Major. "this is a happy moment. I have not seen you
                     for two weeks. Whenever I have called, you have been unwell or absent. At the
                     government house, the ladies have wondered at your strange disappearance, where
                     your presence is always so welcome."
                  "I am very sorry Major Adair has suffered for not seeing me," was the calm, yet
                     cold reply.
                  "Listen to me, Miss Manners—I would call you Mary, if I dared—is
                     my conversation disagreeable?"
                  "When not too imploring or pressing, it is not."
                  "Is it so now?"
                  "That will depend upon circumstances. A relative is always welcome, as
                        such I shall never find fault with your visits."
                  "This is strange," he replied. "Suppose that my heart always beat with a warmer
                     glow in your presence,—that to gaze upon you, and to listen to you, give me
                     deep, deep pleasure—am I to be deprived, therefore, of being where you
                     are?"
                  "Major, I do not understand you."
                  "Then let me explain all, in a few simple words—I love you."
                  "Is that all?" said Miss Manners, in a half jocular, yet half serious tone; "is
                     that all, Major Adair?"
                  "No—not all," he replied, "since you ask me, I will tell you. I have ever felt,
                     from our first interview, a deep, an abiding feeling, that of love! Will you
                     accept me for a husband, will you, will you be my wife, Mary?—answer me."
                  "No, Major Adair, no. You have asked me frankly, I answer you equally so. Let
                     this subject drop—be forgotten, if you will—but never breathe it again to
                     me."
                  "Ah! I see; that rebel officer, Burnham, has succeeded in winning your heart,
                     but remember, Miss Manners," he ground his teeth as he spoke, "remember that
                     there is a greater triumph than that of love to the determined—the triumph of
                        death! This young man will yet be in my power, and I will crush
                     him—thus!"
                  As he said this, he twisted a glove in his hand, and then dropped it upon the
                     floor—a shapeless thing.
                  "You dare not injure him, my brother almost! Shame
                     upon you—for an English officer to make such threats. But he is not in your
                     power; if he was, you would not dare to harm him."
                  "Harm him! I would have him hung by the neck to the first tree that would hold
                     the weight of a rebel rogue. Harm him, forsooth!"
                  "Miserable fool! I know now your idle vengeance. Idle, I call
                     it—yes, idle. Do what you will, there are those on both sides that estimate a
                        thing like you to its full value. Go! do what you like, but
                     never again interfere with me. Go! I say."
                  This said, she advanced to where her father and General Gage were busily
                     engaged in conversation. The Major, without saying a word, left the room. He
                     felt that all was lost in one way, his next movement was to spring, if he could
                     do so, like the rattlesnake, but without the rattlesnake's warning—his
                        rattle.
                  
                  "My dear girl," said the Doctor, "the Major seems to have left you in a hurry
                     Our friend, General Gage, has just brought me a letter from Lord North—it was
                     enclosed in his packet of despatches. I have received the appointment of
                     Protestant Bishop of Canada. Is not this something for my loyalty?"
                  "Yes, my dear father, it is. Then we go." This was spoken in a tone of deep
                     despondency.
                  "Certainly. But what ails you? Speak, my daughter."
                  "Nothing. When do we leave Boston?"
                  "His majesty's frigate Ruby leaves in the course of a week. Can we not be ready
                     in that time?"
                  "Yes, my father."
                  "Ah! General, I told you so. Is not Mary truly a good girl?"
                  General Gage waved his hand, and retired.
                  One week after this interview, Dr. Manners and his daughter embarked on board
                     the frigate lying in the harbor of Boston bound for Quebec.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXV.
                  For an hour after Ki had been thrown into the cellar, he suffered the most
                     excruciating pain. His wound had weakened him from the loss of blood, but it
                     had now clotted, and a stiffness of the limb, aided in a great measure by the
                     tightness of the bandage which confined his hands and feet, made it almost
                     impossible for him to move. Sleep came at length to his relief—sleep, that sole
                     comforter of weary minds and tired bodies.
                  In the meantime, things in the room overhead had arrived at a crisis. The body
                     of the pedlar, dead from the effects of violence, was wrapped in a coarse
                     blanket, tied with cords, after having been stripped of everything valuable,
                     and then taken out by two of the sons to the "deep hole," as it was called—a
                     small natural pond, in the woods back of the house.
                  It was a wild, dreary place. The storm, which still continued, was violent; the
                     rain fell in heavy torrents, the thunder pealed, and the lightning flashed over
                     the scene.
                  When the two reached the side of the pond, they laid the body upon a
                     perpendicular rock, which occupied one side of the pool, whilst one of them
                     proceeded to select a large stone, to attach to the body, to sink it.
                  The stone was soon procured, and tied to the body with a thick cord, and then
                     came the closing scene—the swallowing up of the dead.
                  "I say, Jake," said one, with as much indifference as if he was handling the
                     carcase of a sheep, "is this the third, or fourth, that the 'deep hole' has got
                     in its bowels, to feed the pickerel on? I can't tell: my rememberin' is gettin'
                     rather bad, as to all on 'em."
                  "I guess it's the fourth as won't tell any tales," was the reply. "Come, are
                     you ready?"
                  "Yes, Jake."
                  "Well, then, heave!"
                  With a sudden sway, they cast the body into the pond. As it reached the water
                     with a surging plunge, there arose a heavy clap of thunder, preceded by a
                     singular flash of lightning that illuminated the whole scene for several
                     seconds. The woods, the distant hills, the surrounding banks of the pond, were
                     seen in the unearthly light with strange distinctness.
                  But it was the sight in the pond that fascinated the two murderers. The body of
                     the pedlar had forcibly burst through the cloth that confined it, and the gory
                     head was exposed to view, the face towards the men. It seemed as if the body
                     was standing erect. Suddenly, it whirled round, then gradually sunk out of
                     sight, a few bubbles rising amid the ripples, and all was dark as before.
                  "Jake, let's get back to the house. Ugh! that was a queer caper for a dead
                     body;—I almost thought I see'd the eyes move—didn't you?"
                  "Eyes move—I thought I heard his throat gurgle, just as it did when I gave him
                     the death squeeze. Hurry on—I must have some spirits: the sweat's rollin' off
                     my face as if I'd been working all day in the meadow, with the sun pourin' down
                     red hot. What's that?"
                  There was a kind of a faint halloo, sounding far off in the depths of the
                     woods. It grew fainter and fainter, until it died away like an infant's
                     wail.
                  "Why, Jake, you must be narvous, indeed. Don't you know a screech-owl's yell.
                     Why, we always considered you the brave one of the family, and now you're
                     frightened at your shadow. Don't let mam see you, she'll call you the baby,
                     mind."
                  By this time they had reached the house, and entered, where they found the old
                     hag of all busily engaged in washing up the blood from the floor, and, as
                     country people say, "putting things to rights." The other son had gone out to
                     the shed, for the purpose of placing the goods contained in the pedlar's wagon
                     in a place of security.
                  "Mother," said Jake—by the bye, Jake was the eldest and the favorite—"give us
                     some liquor out of the bottle. This pedlar job is the worst I ever had to do
                     with, and it makes me dry to think of it. See, my jacket is all covered with
                     blood. Out with the bottle."
                  "Why, Jake, you are not getting chicken-hearted, I hope," was the
                     reply made by the mother.
                  "No, but bring on the bottle; I'm dry, and, after a drink, must try to get a
                     sound sleep for three or four hours."
                  The bottle was brought, and Jake, pouring out a pint cup nearly full, raised it
                     to his lips without adding any water, and, giving his brother a significant
                     look, said, as he drank:—
                  
                  "Here's to the pond, and no more rising of the pedlar."
                  "What do you mean, Jake?" said the mother, with an anxious look.
                  "Nothing—yes, something; Josh, there, will tell you. Now for a little sleep, if
                     I can get it." And he went into the small room which had been occupied by Ki,
                     and threw himself, without undressing, upon the bed. The huge draught of liquor
                     he had drank stupified him, and in a moment he was fast asleep.
                  Josh, the younger son, proceeded to describe to his "honored" parent the scene
                     at the pond, when they threw in the body of the pedlar. The mother listened at
                     first with some attention, which subsided into indifference at the close.
                  "Pooh! and you and Jake were frightened because the body stood upright. Why, of
                     course, if you tied the stone to his feet, he would sink with his head up.
                     Never fear—the pedlar's body will tell no tales. If it does, there are others
                     in that pond have a right to speak, too. Don't you feel sleepy, Josh?"
                  "No, mother, I don't feel any wish that way. Where's Jotham?"
                  "Outside, tendin' to the pedlar's fixin's."
                  "What can we do with the wagon and horse? We must get them out of the way."
                  "The wagon, as soon as it's morning, must be taken to the pond and sunk. It'll
                     go down of its own weight, with a few stones inside. You can't find it there no
                     more than the bodies, for the 'deep hole' hasn't got any bottom. The horse you
                     must take into the woods a couple of miles, and some of the horse thieves will
                     take care of him."
                  Jotham now entered, and related what he had done. The pedlar's effects were
                     safely removed to the hiding-place in the woods, and nothing remained in the
                     shed but the horse and wagon, which were also to be made way with, so that no
                     traces should appear of the pedlar, if search should be made for him.
                  The pedlar was one of those rovers of his class, who had travelled through that
                     part of the Jerseys for many years, replenishing his stock at Philadelphia, and
                     often would not be seen in the same county, town or village, for a month at a
                     time. The murderers and robbers knew this, and, as his stock of goods had just
                     been purchased, they knew that several weeks might elapse before any serious
                     apprehensions would arise among his friends, (where they lived the murderers
                     knew not,) for his safety.
                  "Now, mother," said Jotham, "since things are finished so far, what's to be
                     done with the fightin' character in the cellar? our lives, you know, are in his
                     hands if he is let loose to tell the story."
                  "Never fear about him, Jotham. I'll teach all spying chaps gratitude. He's been
                     eatin' our food under shelter only to bring us to the gallows on occasion.
                     Leave him to me for a little while; I'll starve him by inches; he shall have
                     the bones that the dogs leave, down in the cellar, after I've fed 'em. Now,
                     lads, go to bed, and get a little rest; remember there's a good deal to do in
                     the morning, and I've got lots of 'chores' that must be fixed up afore day
                     comes round again; so be off, both on you."
                  It was in vain that Josh plead, old as he was, that he did not feel sleepy at
                     all. Brought up in fear of his horrid parent, he dared not do otherwise that
                     obey, and the two brothers were soon reposing beside the sleeping Jake.
                  The hag now proceeded to "clean up" finally the room where the horrible murder
                     had been committed. The clothes of the pedlar were stowed away behind the huge
                     chimney, and every trace of the deed of blood carefully washed up. Spots of
                     blood in that place would not have afforded any surprise to searchers who knew
                     the parties; for many a stolen sheep, with his throat cut, had been taken from
                     the premises by the owners, for which one or two of the boys, in the punishment
                     of the day, had received their share of the lash at the whipping-post.
                  This done, the old woman seated herself before the fire, raked up the coals,
                     filled a tin cup of the cider spirits, lighted a pipe, and, puffing away,
                     betook herself to a fit of musing, which sometimes will come, even to the most
                     depraved. Gradually, as the smoke of the tobacco ascended around, it enveloped
                     her head in a grey mist, and, as the flame from the brands now and then
                     flickered up, lighting her harsh, sharp features, a stranger would have
                     imagined he was gazing upon some witch of old preparing for her incantations.
                     Soon, her eyes half closed, yet she was far from asleep. She was in that half
                     dreamy repose when the past flits indistinctly before us like a scene in
                     shadow, bestowing nothing clear upon our vision, yet exhibiting a
                        something which we can define.
                  Memory ran back more than half a century. There was an humble cottage by a
                     river side, and it was May time. The flowers were just budding—the green grass
                     and sweet-scented clover covered the meadows and fields. The river moved on in
                     glassy silence, and all was calm and serene. A little girl was playing in front
                     of the cottage door. Her looks were those of innocence, and her dress, though
                     coarse, was neat. A stout, hardy looking man crossed the meadow; he bore upon
                     his shoulder an axe—for he toiled daily in the woods in the spring time. The
                     little girl left her play, joy beaming in her countenance, and rushed to meet
                     him, "Father" came from her lips, as he bent his head and kissed her.
                  That innocent child was now the old, depraved woman sitting by the
                     fire-side, her face marked with deep lines of passion, and her mind filled with
                     internal fires, desolating as those of Ætna. The old woman sighed
                     unconsciously.
                  There was a lapse of many years. The scene was now a rough road, and the rain
                     falling terribly. Along this road came three persons on foot. The first was a
                     man in the tattered uniform of a British soldier; on his shoulders he bore a
                     knapsack, and in one hand he carried a musket. His looks were brutal in the
                     extreme; his face was bloated with drunkenness.
                  Behind him came a female, scantily clad. Her face was sad, and her cheeks
                     prematurely thin. Although in the prime of early womanhood, to judge from her
                     face, she had reached very nearly the meridian of life. Her steps were slow and
                     weak—she evidently wanted rest and food. She carried and led, alternately, a
                     boy of some five years of age. At times, the brutal husband, for he was such,
                     turned his face towards her, and shook his fist threateningly. She remonstrated
                     apparently, but without avail: the brute struck her a violent blow, and the
                     blood streamed from her face!
                  For some time they plodded on. At length the husband stopped and bent his head,
                     as if listening. Suddenly he led his wife to the fence which skirted the road,
                     and compelled her and her child to get over it, and hide behind a thicket of
                     bushes. He followed, struck the priming out of his gun, and primed it afresh.
                     Then he passed the barrel through the bushes in the direction of the road.
                  A moment or two after, a well-dressed horseman appeared, urging his steed
                     forward with great haste, for the rain now fell faster than ever. As he came
                     opposite the fatal spot, where the ruffian soldier was concealed, there was a
                     flash, a report, the horseman raised himself up for an instant, and then fell
                     heavily from his horse to the ground, dead. The horse, without his rider,
                     rushed madly on, snorting and trembling at the loss of his master.
                  The soldier rushed from the road-side, dragged the body into the bushes, and
                     drew from the pocket of the dead man a heavy purse of gold, the woman looking
                     on, with horror in her countenance. Then the soldier carried the body deeper
                     into the woods and cast it into a swamp—all this while the woman was wringing
                     her hands, the little boy bewildered at the sight.
                  "It was the first MURDER I ever saw—the first piece of gold
                        I ever handled, the wages of blood!" screamed, rather than
                     spoke, the old woman, as she started up from her chair, trembling in every
                     limb. She glanced round—the fire was nearly out, and everything looked dull and
                     gloomy. Slowly she recovered her senses—her courage came back.
                  "What a fool to be frightened in dreams at things I've forgotten when awake. It
                     must be near daylight."
                  She went to the door, took down the bar, and looked out. A faint gleam of
                     light, on the western horizon, indicated that the "day-god" was not far from
                     making his glorious appearance in the sky. It was a pleasant hour. The perfume
                     of the dew, as it mingled with the night distillations from the flowers and
                     herbage, came pleasantly over the senses, and the first twittering of the
                     birds, shaking off "drowsy sleep" in the matin hours, rose gently to the
                     skies—all else was still. Yet that old woman did not appreciate this beautiful
                     hour. It was not because murder had been done the night before in her dwelling,
                     or that the pond, whose calm surface was faintly seen in the morning light
                     through an opening in the woods, contained many dark and terrible secrets of
                     her bloody deeds. No, no! her mind was steeled against such remembrances.
                  The hours of early, innocent enjoyment to her had long since passed away. In
                     the wars of nature, the storms of the element, the sharp flashes of lightning,
                     and the heavy peals of thunder, she found something similar to her own
                     feelings. Nature had blended in her the mental and physical powers exactly in
                     the ratio to equalize wrong. To this cause was owing her stern courage and want
                     of fear.
                  Lighter and lighter grew the day, until the sun's edge peeped above the distant
                     hills. She then went into the chamber, and awoke her stalwart sons from their
                     heavy slumber—sons trained by her to every crime of desperate daring and
                     blood—sons who, under an honest mother's guidance, would have been the pride
                     and hope of her declining years. What a contrast, and how circumstances form
                     our habits!
                  "Come, boys," she said, in her masculine tone, "the sun is up, and it's time
                     for you to be up also; there's a good deal, recollect, to be done."
                  Jake leaped at once from his bed, and rubbed his eyes. His brain was yet filled
                     with the fumes of the liquor he had drank, to drown his memory of the scene at
                     the pond, and he staggered, rather than walked, into the room after his
                     mother.
                  "Where's the pedlar?" said he, looking round with a yawn.
                  "The pedlar! ain't you awake yet, booby?—the pedlar? where you put him, I
                     suppose."
                  "Ah! yes," said he, with a shudder, "I recollect now— I shall never see
                        him again."
                  "Jake," said his mother, her eyes lighting up with fury, "you have ever been my
                     favorite, because I thought you partook, of all my children, the most of my
                     spirit. If I see any more of this wavering, I shall begin to doubt you. What
                     was that lump of flesh that you destroyed? A huckstering, knavish pedlar."
                  "Life was as dear to him as to either of us," replied the son, in a doubting
                     tone.
                  "I see, I see, the spirits you swallowed yet linger in your brain. Go to the
                     spring, drink heartily of it, then cool your head, and you will regain your
                     senses."
                  Jake obeyed, and left the room for the open air, just as his two brothers came
                     from the sleeping apartment.
                  "Boys," said she, "I do really think Jake is getting tender-hearted. It won't
                     do; we're all in danger; if there's the least fear among any of us, the others
                     must look out for their lives. You understand me? Now look after the wagon, and
                     see that it is sunk in the pond, and set the horse loose in the woods; some of
                     the neighbors may be along soon. See to it at once, while I get breakfast."
                  Her sons speedily applied themselves to the task, in which Jake, after having
                     gone through his ablutions, as advised, performed his part, whilst two of them
                     conveyed the pedlar's wagon to the pond and sunk it, carefully obliterating the
                     marks of the wheels on the earth and sward, the other took the horse into the woods some distance, and
                     let him loose.
                  On their return, breakfast was found waiting for them, and they all partook of
                     it with the appetites of men never troubled with modern dyspepsia. This done,
                     the mother scraped the bones and leavings in a wooden bowl, saying:—
                  "Now, boys, I'm going into the cellar to feed the dogs, and look after the
                     other beast confined there. Didn't I tell you I'd starve him by inches? He
                     shall gnaw bones as well as dogs!"
                  The sons exchanged meaning glances as their mother descended into the cellar,
                     and listened. The yelping of two or three small curs were heard, barking and
                     crunching over the food thrown to them; the prisoner's voice was still.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXVI.
                  Seventy years ago, Paulus Hook, or, as it is called, Jersey City, on the
                     opposite banks of the Hudson, presented quite a different appearance from what
                     it now does. A few straggling houses, on a peninsula, formed the village. It
                     being, however, the place where the main road to Philadelphia commenced, after
                     crossing from New York, rendered the little town a spot of more real importance
                     than it seemed.
                  There were two modes of ferriage across to New York. Foot passengers were taken
                     over in row-boats capable of containing six, eight, or even twelve persons, as
                     the case might be: whilst carriages were taken over in
                        periaugas, a species of two-masted vessel, broad on deck,
                     which, when there was no wind, could be propelled by heavy sweeps, or oars.
                  The chief tavern in the village was kept by a descendant of one of the first
                     Dutch settlers, named Harsimus—for aught we know, a descendant of the founder
                     of that pleasant place, now called Communipaw, but better known on the maps as
                     Harsimus. This tavern was famous in its day, and stood back no great distance
                     from the old windmill that was torn down a few years ago.
                  It was a tavern of great resort of the young men of that day from New York,
                     particularly on holidays, when turkey, goose and pigeon shooting formed one of
                     the sports of the time. On the back stoop of this tavern, about the hour of
                     noon, of an early fall day, in 1775, stood three persons, in half military
                     costume, looking eagerly up the road which led into the village from the
                     direction of the Bergen Hills.
                  "They must have been detained at Elizabethtown longer than was expected,
                     Colonel," said one of the party.
                  "I think so, Willet, or they would have been here before this. Come, Lamb, let
                     us go in and take a bowl of Harsimus' cold punch, such as he is so famous for
                     making."
                  The three men went inside, where they found the host—a short, slow-moving,
                     good-natured fellow—preparing the beverage in question.
                  "Why, Harsimus, not got the bowl mixed yet? You are rightly named, 'Old Slow
                     and Sure!' Don't be so sparing of your rum, particularly as Willet, yonder,
                     supplied it to you, gratis, for the 'Liberty Boys,' 'waifs and strays,' as the
                     lawyers say. More rum, more rum; remember, we are to drink a lady's health from
                     that bowl, so don't be a niggard."
                  "The Liberty Boys, Colonel McDougal," said the landlord, with a twinkle of his
                     eye. "Yes, now I think on't, they are liberty boys indeed. The last time they
                     had a parade on our side of the Hudson, all the neighbors were wondering, next
                     day, what had become of their barn-yard poultry. Gobblers, drakes and game
                     cocks have been scarce ever since."
                  "Rascal," said the officer called Willet, "is this the way you slander your
                     best friends? Why, when Lamb, King 'Sears,' and myself shut up the Custom House
                     at New York, all the population of the united villages of Hoboken, Paulus Hook,
                     Bergen, and, I believe, as far back as Hackensack, were seen with bags, bowls,
                     barrels and kegs, to say nothing of the petticoats made into sacks on the spur
                     of the occasion, collecting tea, sugar, liquor, and other valuables, which we
                     'Liberty Boys' distributed as tory property, and confiscated. A squab Dutch
                     innkeeper, by the name of Harsimus, if I mistake not, carried off a boat load
                     of rum on the occasion."
                  "A mistake, Captain—a mistake; I did get a barrel of rum, but then it turned
                     out to be gin, and the bag of coffee turned out to be pepper. That's a fact,
                     Captain—Diederich Harsimus don't lie."
                  "Don't lie! oh! Diederich, Diederich, may a certain nameless personage not be
                     allowed to punish you according to your deserts, or I pity you from my
                     soul."
                  "Here, Captain, taste this punch, and see if it does not suit you to a nicety.
                     I beg off."
                  "It is well you do, old Sour-krout. It tastes capital, by St. Moses! Colonel,
                     try it. Diederich has outdone himself on this occasion."
                  The punch was tasted by Willet's companions, and pronounced equal to any he had
                     ever made. The rum, the lime juice and the sugar were blended to a charm, and
                     the floating lumps of ice gave it a delicious coolness, for the day was
                     exceedingly warm.
                  Quite a number of personages had assembled in the bar-room, and the contents of
                     the bowl were freely distributed.
                  "Come," said the chief of the three military men, who was called Colonel
                     McDougal, "fill up all, and drink to a toast from Sandy McDougal,*
                        the milkmon's son."
                  
                     
                     *This officer was Colonel McDougal, afterwards General Alexander McDougal,
                        a brave and gallant soldier of the Revolution. His father, a Scotchman,
                        was a milkman in New York before the Revolution, and his patriotic son
                        followed the same occupation for some time. He was a jovial man, and very
                        often, when dining with Washington and the French officers, would style
                        himself, "Sandy McDougal, the milkmon's son."
                  
                  The cups were all filled, and, in a stentorian voice, the Colonel gave:
                  "The health of the lady of the Commander in-Chief, whose arrival we are now
                     expecting, on her way to camp. The health of the soldier's wife, who follows
                     her husband in his perils—three times three for LADY WASHINGTON! Drink, and
                     cheer away all!"
                  There was a draining of cups, and cheer rose on cheer, till the ceiling of the
                     bar-room seemed to crack at the sound.
                  "Mine Gott!" exclaimed an old Dutchman, who was sitting in a corner, smoking a
                     pipe, (too lazy to get up and drink.) "Mine Gott! de house ish blown down mit
                     deir noise, and de roof fall in de shellar, and de shellar be up top ob de
                     roof."
                  Not content with one display of feeling, other bumpers were swallowed in
                     succession, with cheers fully as terrible for the Dutchman's nerves, for the
                     occasion was a merry one. Mrs. Washington, the wife of the General, was on her
                     way to join her husband at the camp in Cambridge, and a committee of soldiers
                     and citizens from New York had been appointed for the purpose of receiving her
                     at Paulus Hook and escorting her across the river to the city, where she was to
                     pass the night.
                  On this committee were Colonel Alexander McDougal, Captains Marinus Willet and
                     John Lamb,*
                      of the first New York Continental regiment, then just raised for
                     service. There was also a committee of the citizens present. On the New York
                     side, the Mayor and Aldermen were waiting to receive the lady and her
                     escort.
                        
                        *These three patriotic men were an honor to the city of New York. All
                           belonged there, and served throughout the Revolution.
                     
                  The distant sound of a small field piece was heard, followed by another nearer,
                     when there was an instant rush from the tavern to the lawn and road-side.
                  "Get in order, gentlemen of the committee, get in order—the lady will soon be
                     here, and let us show in what estimation New Yorkers hold the lady of the
                     Commander-in-Chief. Willet, see to the cannon, and do not let the artillerymen
                     fire till I give the word. Lamb, take position on my right, and dress these
                     awkward recruits more in line."
                  A trumpet's blast was now heard, though at a long distance, and winding down
                     the road-side was seen a troop of cavalry, the brass mounting of their helmets
                     and their drawn swords glittering and sparkling in the sunbeams. As they
                     approached, not a sound was heard from the concourse awaiting to receive them
                     near the ferry. The troop soon reached the spot, and, wheeling at command,
                     formed in line opposite the crowd. The escort consisted of about sixty
                     fine-looking dragoons, in brown uniform coats faced with buff, and their
                     standard of blue silk was richly embroidered with the arms of Pennsylvania.
                     This was the first company of horsemen raised in Philadelphia at the
                     commencement of the Revolution, and their commander was Major Cadwallader.†
                     belonging to one of the first families in the colony.
                        
                        †Afterwards General Cadwallader, and an aid of Washington. He was the
                           grandfather of the present General Cadwallader of Philadelphia.
                     
                  The attention of the crowd was soon drawn to another object than the handsome
                     company of cavalry. A plain, four-wheeled chariot, drawn by four beautiful grey
                     horses, the driver, a stalwart black, in drab livery, with a footman behind,
                     came rapidly on. By the side of the chariot rode a young officer in buff and
                     blue uniform, well known to our readers. The only change about him was, that,
                     instead of the three-cornered hat, he wore a dragoon helmet. As the chariot
                     neared the crowd, there rose three loud huzzas, drums and fifes struck up, and
                     the cannon on the wharf blazed forth "their sulphurous fire."
                  The young officer at the side of the chariot, leapt from his horse, and, as the
                     footman let down the carriage steps, he extended his hand to receive a lady
                     from the 
                        chraiot
                        chariot
                     , and lead her towards the advancing committee from New York.
                  The lady was in age about forty, of a fresh complexion, and well-made, regular
                     features. Her eyes were blue, and beamed with benevolence. Her figure was
                     rather over the common height of females, slightly inclining to en bon point. Her travelling dress was of plain yet
                     costly materials. Her whole air and manner were such as to impress one that her
                     position by rank and education would be among the first of any land.
                  Putting her arm through Harry Burnham's, (for our readers must have known
                        him,) the lady advanced towards the group awaiting to receive
                     her. Taking off his helmet, and bowing to them all, Burnham said:
                  "Gentlemen, I have the honor of introducing to you LADY WASHINGTON."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Mrs. Washington was always called in the army "Lady Washington." Although
                        such a title is now considered out of place, in speaking of the wives of
                        high functionaries, yet as late as President Madison's day, Mrs. Madison
                        was called Lady Madison.
                  
                  Three loud and hearty cheers followed, which were properly acknowledged by the
                     lady.
                  Colonel McDougal, as soon as the cheers ceased, welcomed Mrs. Washington, in a
                     few brief words, so far on her journey.
                  "In the name of my husband, gentlemen, I thank you all for your kindness and
                     attention," she replied, with a pleasant smile; and the company made way, as
                     she passed into the "hotel" of Diederich Harsimus, still leaning on the arm of
                     Burnham.
                  Poor Diederich hardly knew whether he was on his head or his heels; there he
                     stood at the door, bowing his head, like a Chinese figure, without moving any
                     other portion of his body, until at length Burnham spoke:
                  "My good sir, give Lady Washington passage into your house, for your own
                     safety, or I fear you will bob your head off for ceremony's sake."
                  "Yes, yes, sir—yes, my lady. Here, Dinah, Jacob, Rachael, (the Dutchman had
                     named his slaves after all the celebrated characters in the Old Testament,) 
                        Goliah
                        Goliath
                     , Susannah—where are you all?"
                  It was like calling spirits from the "vasty deep." His domestic establishment,
                     from the bar-room to the kitchen, had instinctively betaken themselves outside
                     to witness the show, and, backing
                     himself from the doorway, Diederich fell over a large dog, displaying his broad
                     figure to no great advantage, as he went absolutely heels over head—the first
                     time he had turned a complete somerset since he was a boy.
                  To rise and vent his wrath upon the poor dog, was quicker work than ever any
                     one supposed Diederich was capable of accomplishing; but mortification and rage
                     are great quickeners of our activity. It was impossible for any of the
                     lookers-on to retain their gravity, and poor Diederich looked, for a moment,
                     the picture of despair. Indeed, it became, as long as Diederich lived, (and
                     that was for fifty years afterwards,) a by-word among the inhabitants, to "bow
                     as gracefully as Diederich Harsimus did to Lady Washington."
                  Followed by her two colored female servants, that came with her from Virginia,
                     Mrs. Washington retired to her room, requesting Burnham to inform the
                     committee, that in half an hour she would be ready to accompany them to New
                     York.
                  A collation had been prepared in the dining room of the tavern, for the
                     officers and others, and there Burnham, Cadwallader, McDougal, Willet, and the
                     party, enjoyed themselves over the table of Diederich. Nothing was lacking in
                     the way of food or refreshment, and the praises passed upon the landlord's
                     board in some measure compensated him for his accident of the day. The ready
                     joke and toast went round, the same feeling of patriotism pervading all. Nor
                     were the escort of cavalry forgotten—lunch of all kinds, and bowls of punch
                     were furnished them, and, strange to say, although there were no temperance
                     societies then, not a man was the worse for liquor.
                  Burnham was sent for precisely at the expiration of the half hour, by the
                     Commander-in-Chief's lady, and, as before, leaning upon his arm, she presented
                     herself to the committee, and announced her readiness to proceed An elegant
                     barge, capable of holding all her immediate attendants, besides the committee,
                     had been prepared for her reception, and they embarked with Burnham and
                     Cadwallader, the cavalry and others to follow in the periaugas, as soon as they
                     were ready.
                  A salute was fired when the barge left the wharf, which was answered from the
                     New York side.*
                      It was a beautiful day, and the Hudson lay calm and unruffled,
                     disturbed only by the oars of the bargemen. The boat was not long in reaching
                     the opposite shore, landing at what was then called Mort Kill, but now the
                     vicinity of Barclay street.
                        
                        *It may be as well to state that this reception of Mrs. Washington at
                           Paulus Hook and New York, when on her way to join the General, is, in the
                           main, historical.
                     
                  Here was the Mayor, Mr. Hicks, attended by the Aldermen, and a numerous body of
                     citizens, besides several companies of soldiers, and the salutes and greetings
                     were ten times more cheering than before. A coach had been provided for Mrs.
                     Washington, and she was escorted, much against her will, by the public
                     authorities, to the rooms which had been provided for her at the Wall Tavern,
                     in the street of that name, not far from Broadway.
                  Although most of the principal and wealthy families of the city of New York, in
                     1775, were tory in their feelings—that is, attached to the British
                     government—and opposed, as they called it, to the rebellion, yet they did not
                     take, at that time, the strong ground against the whigs which a year afterwards
                     was done, when Sir William Howe landed on Long Island at the head of thirty
                     thousand men. Most of the ladies of these families called on Mrs. Washington in
                     the course of the afternoon, with due courtesy.
                  Burnham, after attending Mrs. Washington to the hotel, went, himself, to the
                     residence of a friend, where he had requested Ki to call, on his way from
                     Philadelphia to Cambridge, and, also, to forward any letters from camp, that
                     might be received there for three or four days after his arrival. His surprise
                     was great, when he was told that Ki had not been seen, nor had any letters been
                     received.
                  Surprised and astonished, he made particular inquiries at all places where he
                     supposed Ki might have visited, but without obtaining any information of him.
                     Neither could he, by inquiring at any of the lodging-houses or taverns in the
                     vicinity of the Paulus Hook Ferry, ascertain if any person had been seen, whose
                     appearance at all resembled that of his gigantic friend. He began to feel
                     alarmed, but hoped for the best. A few days would determine as to his actual
                     safety, he thought.
                  On returning to the tavern, he found an invitation had been left for Major
                     Cadwallader and himself, to attend a supper of the "Liberty Boys," at
                     Montanye's tavern, in the vicinity of "the fields."
                  His first duty, before accepting the invitation, or giving the bearer an
                     answer, was to present himself to Mrs. Washington, and ascertain if his
                     attendance was required by her in the course of the evening.
                  "Well, Captain," said the lady, as he presented himself, "have you received any
                     letters from the camp?"
                  "None, madam, at which I am much surprised."
                  "Then, I suppose, you will be prepared to set out early. I feel much fatigued,
                     and must soon retire. I do not know what I should have done without your
                     attendance thus far upon the journey. At present, I can only thank you. Is it
                     convenient for you to leave early in the morning?"
                  "At any hour you choose, my lady—it will be all the same to your humble
                     servant."
                  "Then let it be at ten o'clock. To tell the truth, I am getting heartily sick
                     of these attentions from the authorities on the route. As I am about to go to
                     my repose, which I much need, I bid you good night, my young friend."
                  "Good night, madam—may heaven bless you with sweet slumbers," and Burnham took
                     his leave.
                  Montanye's tavern, or garden, was situated in Warren street, not far from
                     Broadway, and, from the period of the stamp act, had been the head-quarters of
                     the "Liberty Boys," as they were styled, the patriotic working classes of the
                     day. The Liberty Boys were opposed to the British government, opposed to the
                     stamp act, and, in fact, imbued with the full spirit of independence, and ready
                     to separate from the mother country.
                  Many and desperate were the encounters that ensued between the Liberty Boys, on
                     one side, and the tories, custom house officers, stamp collectors and soldiers,
                     on the other. Blood was spilt, lives lost, and a desperate and bitter feeling
                     grew up between the parties, getting stronger and stronger, until the breaking
                     out of the revolution.
                  The chief leaders of the Liberty Boys were Alexander McDougal, Isaac
                     Sears—better known as King Sears—Willet, Lamb, and others, all of whose names
                     will endure as long as the history of the revolution is read by patriotic
                     hearts. Although not openly taking part with the Liberty Boys, for, sometimes,
                     they would act a little mob-like, John Jay, Gouverneur Morris, John Morin
                     Scott, and others, equally pure and distinguished in after life, were known to
                     favor them in most of their acts, and often defended them, legally, when
                     brought before the courts of the province by the prosecuting attorney of the
                     King.
                  It may well be supposed that Burnham and Cadwallader were well received at the
                     supper of the "Liberty Boys," at Montanye's garden. There was a collection of
                     several hundred hardy men, most of them iron-fisted mechanics, New Yorkers by
                     birth, many of whom, during the seven years that followed, took part in every
                     battle, from the walls of Quebec to the closing scene at Yorktown. Amid these
                     men, the two officers first formed acquaintances that ripened, in after years,
                     to friendship, during the campaigns of the revolution.
                  The supper broke up at an early hour, and, forming in procession, the "Liberty
                     Boys" escorted them to their lodgings, and, before dispersing, gave them three
                     hearty cheers.
                  The next morning at ten o'clock, Burnham, Cadwallader and his troop, with Mrs.
                     Washington, in her travelling chariot, left the city for Cambridge, by the old
                     Boston post road, and, on the fourth day after, were at head-quarters. The
                     first greeting of Burnham, as he took Fairfax by the hand, was—
                  "Where is Ki?"
                  "We have not seen him since he left for Philadelphia."
                  "Then he is murdered!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXVII.
                  When the hag reached the cellar with the remains of the meal her sons had just
                     consumed, to supply the dogs and the prisoner alike, her first look was for
                     Ki.
                  He was in deep repose, and free from pain, for his dreams were of the camp and
                     his comrades. What had added unconsciously to his relief, was the fact that two
                     of the litter of pups had, during the night, found their way to him and licked,
                     with soothing tongues, the clotted blood from his wounds, disposing him still
                     more to slumber. Another had nestled its warm body close to his head, and even
                     growled as its inhuman mistress made her way into the cellar.
                  "Up, up, you snarling pups you, and let that critter die by himself. Here,
                     here, all of you."
                  And she threw the fragments of food on the floor, which they commenced
                     devouring.
                  Perceiving that even the growling of the dogs over their food did not wake Ki,
                     she went forward and gave him a push with her foot. He opened his eyes, and
                     endeavored to raise himself up, but hands and feet were both too firmly bound.
                     It was in vain he exerted his strength to break the cords upon his wrists, he
                     felt too sensibly the weakness which his wound and loss of blood had brought
                     upon him.
                  "Oh! you needn't try to do that. You'll never get them off, mister rebel soger,
                     I can tell you. So you may as well keep quiet."
                  "One thing I can answer for, old Witch of Endor. Your reward will come for your
                     crimes."
                  "Ha! ha! you think so, do you?" she chuckled, in reply. "Not from your hands,
                     any way. I intend to let you starve to death by inches—yes, starve to death by
                     inches, as you would kill me and mine."
                  "To be sure I would. Murderers like you and your sons should be hung as high as
                     Haman. No mercy should be shown you."
                  "Don't tempt me too far, or I may put an end to you now. Strong as you were
                     last night, you would be but a baby in my hands now."
                  "Ki felt, situated as he was, his best course would be to aid as little as
                     possible in arousing the woman's anger, and he said, in a milder voice:
                  "You'll give me a little water at least, for I am very dry."
                  "Perhaps so, perhaps not. If I give you water 'twill be only to make you live
                     the longer in starving. If that pleases you perhaps I'll give you a bowl full
                     of water when you get a little drier."
                  "You are worse than the devil is painted in Scripture," said Ki, for he could
                     no longer contain himself as he intended.
                  "If that's the case," she answered, coolly, "you needn't wonder that I give you
                     no water, unless it be bilin' hot."
                  Again she laughed in her hideous tones.
                  "I did not think the woman lived possessing such brutality. I ask you again for
                     a little water."
                  "I like to hear you talk in that way. Well, you shall have a little water. I
                     won't commence by teasing you too bad at once."
                  She went up stairs, and immediately returned with a small wooden bowl, that
                     might have held a quart. Ki gazed upon the liquid with eager eyes as she
                     approached.
                  "Stop," she said, suddenly, "the dogs must have their drink first."
                  And she tauntingly placed the bowl just beyond the grasp of Ki, even if his
                     hands had been unloosed, and called
                     the canine inhabitants of the cellar to its contents.
                  After the dogs had satisfied themselves, consuming full one-half of the water,
                     she placed it by the head of Ki, saying:
                  "There, drink your fill, but don't gnaw up the bowl."
                  "Will you not hold it to my lips? my hands, you know, are tied."
                  "No. Do as the dogs do; stick your head in it."
                  Ki suppressed his indignation, and managed, by supporting himself on his elbows
                     and the least painful of his knees, to get his lips to the bowl, which he
                     drained with satisfaction. A slight fever was upon him, and the coolness of the
                     water, small as was the quantity, relieved him considerably from his faintness.
                     Resuming his old position, he looked the woman in the face, and said, in a firm
                     voice:
                  "Now, what is your intention towards me?"
                  "To see you die."
                  "What are you to gain by that?"
                  "Keep your tongue from telling that which would hang myself and my boys."
                  "Suppose I would swear not to divulge what I have seen?"
                  "I wouldn't believe you."
                  "You've guessed right. If I should swear, I would not keep my oath. But I shall
                     not take an oath, neither dare you murder me?"
                  This was spoken so boldly that the old woman's eyes kindled with fresh lustre
                     and rage.
                  "You boasting fool! I could blow out your brains in a second. Do you see
                     that?"
                  And she pointed directly at Ki's head one of his own pistols, which she had
                     kept concealed about her person.
                  "I say again you dare not murder me. I fear not your threats."
                  "Then take your fate now, since you want it so quickly."
                  And she hastily cocked the pistol. Ten seconds more and his earthly career
                     would have been over—but it was to be his lucky fate to die at another time, in
                     after years, and in a more glorious scene, when the flag of his country was
                     waving on to victory, and to die gratefully remembered.
                  The old woman took deliberate aim—her finger was upon the trigger, when her arm
                     was forcibly wrenched aside, and the discharge took place. The ball, instead of
                     touching the intended victim, passed through the body of one of her favorite
                     dogs; the dog gave his dying howl, turned upon his back, and died.
                  "Who has dared to come between me and that boasting wretch? Who is it, I say,
                     that has dared to do this? Speak."
                  She absolutely yelled with rage, as she looked around. The person that held her
                     arm was her eldest born, her favorite—her son Jake!
                  "What do you mean, coward?" she said—"what do you mean?"
                  "There's no use murdering that man—I think we've had enough on't."
                  "And so," said his mother, rising, yet trembling in every limb,
                        "you at last have got the heart and liver of a pigeon. I
                     thought, from your last night's talk, it was coming to this. But, if you are my
                     son, my oldest born, you shall not bring us to the
                     gallows. Boys! here's a traitor—come down from up-stairs, both on you—I'll
                     teach you, Jake, what you're about."
                  Jotham and Josh, the youngest sons, both came at once into the cellar.
                  "Look!" said the mother, "look!—there stands your brother ready to betray us,
                     for he has already taken part with that tied up fellow, who threatens to expose
                     and lead us to the gallows, if he has an opportunity. If he is my son and your
                     brother, are not our lives more valuable to us than his? But for him, this man
                     would have been put beyond speaking against the living."
                  Now, it must be put to the credit of the two younger sons, that neither of them
                     felt inclined to take the life of Ki by direct violence. On them personally he
                     had inflicted no real injury, although he had seen, and endeavored personally
                     to save the life of the pedlar. They had no private vengeance to gratify, or
                     plunder to come in possession of—for this reason, as long as Ki died from the
                     effects of his wound and starvation, they had the conscience, even of ruffians,
                     to think he died not by their hands.
                  "But why, mother," said Josh, "need we kill him at all? Why not
                     let him die, as you said, by starving? I think we've had enough of blood,
                     without dipping our fingers in so soon again."
                  "And I too, mam," chimed in Jotham, who merely wanted a backer, to express his
                     own feelings. "Let this fellow die by himself; let him alone; he can't stir a
                     great while—that's what I think."
                  The mother looked at her three sons, like as a panther might be supposed to
                     look upon three disobedient cubs. She dares not strike; together, they are too
                     much for her; she would not strike—they are her offspring. Quick
                     at devising, her mind was soon made up. She recovered her calmness, to all
                     appearances, but the fires still glowed within.
                  "You all take parts against me," said she. "Very well!—I am free from your own
                     punishment."
                  Without uttering another word, she ascended the stairs, which led to the upper
                     story from the cellar. For a moment, the three brothers remained silent, when
                     they collected in a group in the corner, and commenced whispering.
                  Now, it is not to be expected that Ki, in his perilous situation, was at all
                     unaware of what passed. Expecting death, he had nerved himself for the worst.
                     He was silent, but not blind and unobserving. His life hung upon a hair. His
                     hearing was uncommonly acute. The following was what he gathered from the
                     whispering among the brothers:—
                  "It's no use shedding more blood, boys—I say it's no use," whispered Jake. "Let
                     the man alone; he can't tell of us here."
                  "No," said Josh, "but he may do it if he gets clear. But I don't want to see
                     him die by our hands. Why not let him starve, and there's an end on't? That's
                     what I think."
                  "So do I," said Jotham, with a shudder. "That sight you tell on at the pond,
                     both on you, was a little strange. No, I go for lettin' him stay here and take
                     his chance."
                  "Well," said Jake, who had now won his point, "I and you, Jotham, will take the
                     pedlar's goods down the creek, and sell 'em at once. Josh shall remain and keep
                     watch over the old woman's actions, for I don't want this man to be murdered. I
                     for one, and I say it now, will do no more of this kind of business. You may do
                     as you please."
                  There was a mutual grasping of hands, and the brothers, before they went up the
                     cellar steps, each looked inquiringly at Ki, who appeared to be in a deep
                     slumber, though he was far from being so.
                  "I am not yet murdered," he said to himself, "there is hope while
                     there is life. I will cling to it, and rely for safety on HIM that's
                     above."
                  A creek, after running many miles, passed a short distance from the house of
                     the murderers, and found its way to the ocean. Around the mouth of this creek
                     lived many daring characters, in part fishermen, in part wreckers. Some of
                     those who were best off, owned a few small craft, which they navigated to New
                     York or to the South beyond Cape May, disposing of all sorts of merchandise to
                     a similar class of people, who never made any inquiries as to where the
                     articles came from.
                  Upon this creek, soon after the occurrences related in the cellar, Jake and
                     Jotham embarked in a large skiff containing the dead pedlar's goods, to dispose
                     of at the best prices they could get. The war troubles, then just broke out,
                     served still more to prevent inquiries. Brother was beginning to take arms
                     against brother.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXVIII.
                  Long and dreary hours did Ki pass, growing weaker and weaker, so that his
                     chances of escape, unaided, grew feebler every moment. The light through the
                     crevices began to fade, giving warning that night was close at hand. His
                     burning thirst grew almost insupportable; it also seemed that delirium was
                     gradually stealing over him.
                  A bustle overhead, announced the arrival of some persons. It was the return of
                     Jake and Jotham from their expedition down the creek, nor was it long before Ki
                     heard foot-steps on the cellar stairs, and a man descended.
                  "Soger!" said the man.
                  "For God's sake, give me a little water, or end my existence at once!"
                  "Do not speak so loud, and I'll bring it to you. My mother and brothers are out
                     of doors for a minute."
                  Jake, for it was him, ran up stairs, and speedily returned with a large bowl of
                     water, which he held to Ki's lips, and the latter drank every drop. The
                     repentant ruffian next dipped from a tin plate he had brought down, with a horn
                     spoon, some boiled Indian meal, or mush, being the first food Ki had tasted for
                     nearly twenty-four hours.
                  "Swallow it quick," said Jake, "for if the others knew what I was doing, I
                     could not be sure of my own life, much less of your's."
                  "That will do," said Ki; "I was not so hungry as dry."
                  "If I unloose the cords a little, will you promise not to attempt to escape,
                     until you see me again?"
                  "I do."
                  "Very well; make no noise, and, by midnight, you will see me again." He
                     loosened the cords, so that Ki could move with ease, and went up stairs.
                  For some time Ki kept awake, thinking over in his mind about his situation, and
                     the intentions of the man towards him. He was dozing, when he was aroused by
                     the same voice that had accosted him at dusk.
                  "Soger, are you awake?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Don't do anything but whisper. If I assist you in getting away, will you give
                     me your honor not to say one word of what you have seen for a week after you
                     get away? Don't take any time to consider, but say yes or no. If you say no,
                     you will most likely not be alive to-morrow night."
                  "I promise solemnly," said Ki.
                  "Make no noise, but be guided by me."
                  He cut the cords by which Ki was bound, and raised him to his feet.
                  "Now stand there, whilst I find a way to get out. Lean against the wall."
                  Jake, with very little noise, opened an old door, when led from the cellar into
                     the open air, through which Ki could see the stars glimmering in the blue
                     sky.
                  "Now then, lean on me; I know you must be stiff and lame from the pistol ball.
                     Put forth all your strength, and don't make the least sound or noise."
                  Supported by Jake, Ki was enabled to reach the open air, when much revived
                     him.
                  "This way—it is not more than a hundred yards further, and your means of escape
                     will be seen."
                  They reached the bank of the creek, and Jake drew forth a small skiff, and
                     requested Ki to enter, which he did, with the assistance rendered.
                  "Now, then, I leave you. In the skiff you will find a jug of water, two loaves
                     of bread, some cold meat, and a couple of oars. The current will take you down
                     to Toms River by daylight. You will there find habitations. Make up what story
                     you please, but remember your promise."
                  Saying this, he pushed off the skiff into the stream, and, without waiting for
                     an answer from Ki, disappeared in the darkness. The creek was not very wide,
                     and Ki, being seated, or rather stretched, upon some bundles of straw, which
                     had been kindly placed for his comfort, at the bottom of the skiff, the only
                     labor required was to keep her head from the shore with one of the oars.
                  The night was not a very dark one, but a haziness, that betokened a thick
                     morning fog, began to rise, and,
                     before an hour passed away, it was with great difficulty that Ki could
                     distinguish the low marshy shores of the creek. He refreshed himself with the
                     food and the water, but his limb had become so painfully stiff, that it was
                     with the greatest difficulty he was able to move it, or stir from his
                     position.
                  Hour after hour passed on, and the day began faintly to appear, yet the little
                     skiff kept bravely on her way, and it became evident to Ki that he must be near
                     the mouth of the creek, for it had expanded so much that the shores were not
                     visible through the fog, and once or twice he, in vain, directed the head of
                     the boat, as he supposed, in the direction of the banks.
                  Next he heard a heavy surging, like that of sea upon a sandy beach, and he
                     began to feel alarmed when the sound ceased, for he was fearful that he was
                     drifting out to sea. It was true;—a land breeze sprung up, driving off the fog,
                     and Ki found himself upon the Atlantic—the sandy shores of Jersey were some
                     four miles behind him, before was a broad expanse of waters.
                  
                     
                        "The boat had left a stormy shore,
                        A stormy sea before her."
                     
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIX.
                  The sun had risen, and was shining in unclouded brightness upon the ocean. Upon
                     the quarter-deck of a bark, some fifty miles from Sandy Hook, were two persons,
                     looking forth upon the ocean scene. These two persons were an elderly man and a
                     fair young girl. Dr. Manners and his daughter.
                  The vessel in which they embarked had been delayed in the harbor of Boston a
                     few days, and, instead of sailing directly for Quebec, with the invalid
                     soldiers from the garrison in Boston, she had been ordered to New York, for the
                     purpose of communicating with Governor Tryon, of that province, and, if, as
                     General Gage supposed, he wished to do, to take him and suite to Quebec. In the
                     city of New York, times were getting too warm for the safety of the
                     Governor.
                  "What a beautiful sight, dear father," said the daughter. "I had read of the
                     limitless grandeur of the ocean, but never before knew of the sights of those
                     'who go down to the sea in ships.'"
                  "Yes, my daughter, we here behold the wonders of God on the sublimest scale.
                     What worms we are, compared with other of His mighty works. In the deep, far
                     below us, what countless sea monsters roam, unknown, by sight even, to man. The
                     view is indeed grand."
                  "If the young lady," said the master of the vessel, who had approached them,
                     "should behold a storm at sea, she would then witness a magnificent but
                     terrible sight indeed. The people on shore can imagine nothing of the wild
                     greatness of such a scene. The air and the ocean are alike convulsed, and the
                     war between them is raged with a violence beyond the conception of man."
                  "And you, I suppose," said Mary, "have witnessed many such scenes."
                  "Yes, my young lady, more than I ever wish to behold again. Some of them awful
                     indeed. If you wish, I will relate you one."
                  "Do so, sir."
                  "Many years ago, I was a petty officer on board one of his majesty's ships, the
                     Prince Frederick, of sixty-four guns, with a crew of five hundred men. We
                     sailed from Jamaica, bound home, to be paid off. We had been on the West India
                     and South American station for nearly three years, and many a gallant heart
                     beat high, when we received orders from the Admiral to sail for England as soon
                     as we could get ready. We had on board, as passengers, the wife and daughter of
                     the, then, commanding military officer of Jamaica.
                  "The daughter, Miss, was about your age, of a delicate frame, which the climate
                     of the West Indies had not benefitted, after a residence of some years. It was
                     on this account that her father, General Burton, asked the Captain of our ship
                     for a passage home for his wife and daughter, thinking that her native climate
                     would restore his only child to health.
                  "It was an August morning, when we weighed anchor, and every one on board
                     seemed to be new beings, for I can tell you, Miss, three years absence from
                     home, gives one uncommon feelings of happiness, when the bow of his vessel
                     points in the right direction. All was cheerfulness. The crew worked with
                     renewed alacrity, and everything, to outward appearance, denoted a favorable
                     passage.
                  "Such, however, was not to be our fate. On the night of the sixth day a gale
                     set in, which, before morning increased to the violence of a hurricane in the
                     tropics. Our captain and first lieutenant, who were both fine seamen, did all
                     that men could do to get the ship prepared to outlive the gale.
                  "When morning broke, the scene was terrible, awful, beyond description. Every
                     sail had been furled, our uppermasts sent down, and nothing but the masts,
                     rigging, and hull, presented themselves to the gale, which drove us rapidly on,
                     in spite of the huge mountains and valleys of seas upon which we alternately
                     rose and sunk. Some of the heavy guns on the lower deck broke loose, and in
                     spite of every effort to stop their going to and fro, by throwing down
                     hammocks, they tore their way through the sides of the ship, and she began to
                     fill.
                  "There was now nothing left but to endeavor as far as possible to save the
                     lives of as many as the boats would hold, if the boats would live in such a
                     terrible sea. Some of the boats were cut loose, and they speedily swept off,
                     with but few in, destitute of a particle of food or a drop of water. In the
                     largest of our boats were placed the two lady passengers, in which also
                     embarked the captain, some of his officers, and a portion of the crew, in all
                     about twenty-five. This was near the time the ship was ready to sink.
                  "A barrel of water and some bags of biscuit, were all our provisions. In five
                     minutes after, our noble ship went down, bearing with her some hundreds of
                     gallant seamen. I happened, more by good fortune than anything else, to be in
                     this boat. The gale had gradually began to abate at the time of our
                     accident.
                  "Twenty-five of us upon the broad ocean, with water and provisions scarcely
                     sufficient to support life for six days, and we might be weeks upon the sea! We
                     had not a single nautical instrument to guide us, and the stars at night were
                     not always to be seen. The seventh day came, and we were still drifting, and
                     now commenced the suffering.
                  "On the eighth day the young lady died in her mother's arms, a maniac, moaning
                     incoherently for her father. Her mother, almost as frantic, would not let her
                     body be thrown overboard, but kept it in her arms. That night she also died,
                     and then we committed to the deep the bodies—'in death they were not divided.'
                     Further description would be too horrid—on the fourteenth day there were but
                     two living, the armorer of the ship and myself. We were picked up that day by a
                     homeward bound merchantman, and proved to be the only surviving souls, out of
                     five hundred men."
                  Mary had covered her face with her hands, as the captain proceeded, and when he
                     finished, the tears might have been seen trickling through her fingers.
                  "Oh! Captain, what a horrid scene of suffering you must have witnessed."
                  "Yes, Miss,—never to be forgotten. But do not think of it. It will not be our
                     lot, I trust, to be thus placed. Here, take this glass, and look around the
                     sea; perhaps a sail may be in sight, and young eyes, like your's, will see
                     farther than most on board."
                  Mary took the spy-glass, and resting it upon the ship's rail, scanned the
                     horizon. Suddenly she started.
                  "I see," she said, "a little black speck upon the top of a wave. Look, sir,"
                     and she handed the captain the glass.
                  He looked as directed, shook his head, and said he could see nothing.
                  The mate and other officers did the same, but, like the captain, they saw
                     nothing. Mary looked again, and said, still more eagerly:
                  "There it is again: now it goes out of sight; now it rises again."
                  "Probably a sea-bird, on the crest of a wave."
                  Mary still insisted so pertinaciously, that the captain, more to please her
                     than anything else, directed a sailor to go to the mast-head. In about five
                     minutes the man reported something drifting on the lee bow.
                  The ship's head was now directed in the direction pointed out, and, in a short
                     time, the object was made out to be a small boat. Preparations were soon made
                     to launch the ship's yawl, which, when done, the mate with half a dozen
                     sailors, entered, and rowed rapidly towards the drifting boat.
                  The interest on board the ship was intense, particularly when, with the glass,
                     the boat's crew were seen to lift from the other, a human body. Mary trembled
                     with hope and joy, that she might be the instrument of saving one poor
                     being.
                  It was not long before the boat, the crew pulling "with a will," reached the
                     ship's side, and the saved man was lifted on board, perfectly insensible. As
                     Mary Manners and her father pressed forward to see the body, which was placed
                     on a mattrass upon deck, both beheld, to their wonder and astonishment, the
                     well known, but now gaunt and attenuated face and form of KI LANE!
                  Her father stooped and felt his pulse.
                  "Thank God!" he said, quiveringly, "HE STILL LIVES!"
                  Mary knelt—raising her clasped hands and streaming eyes to heaven, and murmured
                     softly,
                  "Thank God, that I have been thy instrument in this merciful
                     work"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XL.
                  The mystery of Ki's absence could not be explained. He bore important
                     despatches from Congress to the Commander-in-Chief, relating, in part, to the
                     expedition then planning at Head-Quarters for Arnold's march up through the
                     woods, and on the rivers of Maine, to join the fortunes of Montgomery, before
                     the walls of Quebec.
                  His absence could not be voluntary, that was certain. He had either been taken
                     sick on the road, or some accident, if not murder, had befallen him. The
                     instant Burnham made application to the Commander-in-Chief for permission to
                     search after Ki, even if he went so far as Philadelphia, it was readily
                     granted, and, with Fairfax, also on leave, they left camp the morning after
                     Burnham arrived.
                  Being on "special duty," they were furnished with relays of horses at certain
                     points. It took them but a little over twenty-four hours to reach New York.
                     Burnham immediately went to his friend in that city, thinking that, possibly,
                     some intelligence might have been left, if Ki had been taken sick on the
                     road.
                  To his gratification, as well as his surprise, he found a note, the
                     superscription in a small neat hand, that made his heart throb for a moment
                     with no common emotion. Tearing open the seal, he read briefly thus:—
                  "DEAR HARRY—Ki is safe, and under my protection. The mystery will be unravelled
                     in due time. Fear not for him; he has been in danger—danger of a violent death,
                     but is recovering from his wound fast. MARY."
                  "This is Mary Manners' hand-writing, certainly," he said, half aloud. "The note
                     bears neither place nor date. I cannot understand it. 'The mystery will be
                     unravelled in due time,' she writes. It is very strange."
                  "Come, come, Harry, what are the contents of that note, you so eagerly pore
                     over? I could have read it through in an eighth of the time—speak out," said
                     the jovial voice of Fairfax to his friend.
                  "There, read it yourself."
                  Fairfax took the note, and read it through carefully.
                  "This, I suppose, is the writing of Miss Manners, whom I have heard you speak of, and I
                     felt such a desire to see?"
                  "Yes, but I supposed, from a letter that Ki brought me at Philadelphia, both
                     her father and herself were on their way, by sea, to Quebec. I know not what to
                     think."
                  "Then ask your friend how the letter came in his possession."
                  Burnham inquired, and was told that it had been left at the dusk of night, by a
                     man whose apparel appeared to be that of a sailor. Of one thing Burnham was
                     certain—Ki was safe with Mary Manners. But how and where they had met, puzzled
                     completely his comprehension. Neither could Fairfax aid him in any plausible
                     supposition, after hearing his reasons. The only probable conclusion, in which
                     both agreed, was, that Miss Manners and Ki were then in New York. This seemed
                     still more likely from that part of Mary's letter which said, "he (Ki) is
                     recovering from his would fast." Ki, then, had been in danger, was
                     wounded, and the mystery was to "be unravelled in due time." Such was the
                     amount of the letter.
                  "Well, well," said Fairfax, "we are relieved from one thing—the Ensign is safe,
                     and, I doubt not, his despatches are also. At any rate, it is useless for us to
                     go further. Suppose, my boy, if we can pick up one or two others, gentlemen
                     belonging to the 'good cause,' we have a little frolic at our tavern. What say
                     you, Burnham?"
                  "With all my heart. But, remember, we have to leave early in the morning."
                  The two friends proceeded, arm in arm, to the tavern, or, as it would
                     now-a-days be called, "hotel," where they stopped, in Broad street. Both being
                     dressed in the uniform of the colonies—the one in blue and buff, the other in
                     the becoming rifle-shirt*
                     of Morgan's batallion of Virginians—they attracted much notice.
                        
                        *The Virginia hunting or rifle-shirt, is the neatest and most comfortable
                           dress for riflemen ever made.
                     
                  On reaching the tavern, Burnham found a note from his friend Williams, from
                     Maryland, whom he left in Philadelphia, informing him that he had just arrived
                     from that city on his way to camp, and that, in an hour's time, he would return
                     with a friend.
                  "So, so," said Fairfax, as Burnham read to him the contents, "four of us—well,
                     we can truly make a party to-night in this city of New York, though it may be
                     filled with tories. Ho! landlord, get ready supper for a dozen at least, and
                     let it be on the table by ten to-night. How are your wines?"
                  "Capital, sir—very fine. I have got a few bottles of Madeira, that came over as
                     far back as the days of Governor Montgomery—fifty years ago, sir, at the very
                     least. I charge a guinea a bottle for it, gentlemen."
                  "Ah! Boniface, if your name is as smooth as your tongue, it would be oily
                     indeed. However, I have some guineas left—d'ye see," and Fairfax held up a
                     purse, through the meshes of which the landlord beheld the edges of some of the
                     scarce and precious coin.
                  "I assure you, gentlemen, what I say is true. The corks are sealed with Sir
                     John Montgomery's arms. Two nights ago, Capt. Vandeput, and the officers of his
                     majesty's ship Asia, now in the harbor, took supper here, and they declared
                     they never tasted such wine. I believe there is but about a dozen bottles left,
                     on my honor."
                  "Like the widow's cruse, your stock will never be decreased, I warrant. At any
                     rate, I am sure it will not, as long as you find customers. Suppose you bring a
                     bottle now, while we take a seat in the coffee-room."
                  The main room, where the frequenters of taverns in those days took seats, was
                     called the "coffee-room," and Burnham, more to gratify his friend than his own
                     feelings, sat down with him, when the wine was brought in and decanted.
                  "This really is choice Madeira, Harry," said Fairfax, as he smacked his lips,
                     after placing (that rarity in those days) a wine glass to his mouth.
                  "As far as my judgment goes, it is, but we must drink sparingly, Frank.
                     Recollect, I expect a couple of friends here soon, and to-night we have the
                     supper. So we must be social without being too jovial, my lad," replied
                     Burnham.
                  "Never fear, Harry. By Jove, this is the best flavored vintage I have tasted in
                     the shape of Madeira, since our last frolic the night we left 'Old Yale,' our
                        alma mater, God bless her."
                  The friends continued to sup their wine leisurely, Fairfax drinking, perhaps,
                     the heaviest of the two. As he began to feel enlivened, he hummed, scarcely
                     loud enough for any one to hear, the chorus to a popular patriotic song of the
                     day.
                  
                     
                        "Then keep away, pray don't disturb us,
                        With stamp-acts or taxes on tea;
                        Your chains are too brittle to curb us,
                        As brothers, we're sworn to be free.
                        Don't disturb us,
                        Your chains can't curb us,
                        Johnny Bull, we are bound to be free!"
                     
                  
                  Two officers entered whilst Fairfax was singing this part of the song, in a low
                     tone, as before mentioned. It was evident, he was almost unconscious of what he
                     was singing.
                  The officers were dressed in the British naval uniform, and both spoke
                     familiarly to the landlord, who seemed quite obsequious to his guests.
                  "Glad to see you, gentlemen. How is Captain Vandeput and the other officers on
                     board the Asia?"
                  "All well, Dan, all well. We came on shore on a little business to transact
                     with the Mayor, about your riotous townsfolks. We'll have to rattle some few
                     houses about their ears yet, and then, I think, they'll know what it is to
                     treat his majesty's officers with respect. Bring us a bottle of wine—we'll
                     swallow it at our leisure."
                  They sat down at a table directly opposite Fairfax and Burnham. It was plain
                     that the uniforms of the two latter did not meet the particular approbation of
                     the new-comers, for now and then an indirect slur about rebels and
                     rebel tailors was heard.
                  Burnham and Fairfax exchanged meaning glances, sipped their wine, and conversed
                     in their usual tone, but said nothing concerning the affairs of the country,
                     determined not to give the first provocation.
                  "That is a queer looking garment, Wallace," said one of the British officers to
                     the other.
                  "Yes, it looks like a biscuit-bag fringed. However, what can be expected in the
                     uniforms of his majesty's renegade subjects. Never mind, Anson, some of them
                     will be hung up at the yard-arm, if not elsewhere."
                  Burnham turned his face towards the last speaker, his brow red with anger, and
                     his voice trembling with rage, as he said:—
                  "Do you mean to insult us? If you do, stop your inuendoes, and talk like
                     gentlemen. You are not masters here!"
                  "Masters!" said the one who had been called by his companion "Anson"—"we
                     generally whip dogs into subjection, and we'll do it now, if you
                     say another word, you rebel scoundrels, or, rather, puppies, I should say."
                  Fairfax, before the British naval Lieutenant had fairly finished his sentence,
                     rose, and deliberately threw the contents of his wine glass in the face of the
                     speaker, and hurled the empty glass in the face of the other, exclaiming:—
                  "Cowardly slaves of a slavish king, resent this insult, if you
                     dare!"
                  The four were simultaneously upon their feet, swords were drawn, and almost
                     crossed, when the landlord, followed by two or three of his servants, rushing
                     in, exclaimed:—
                  "Oh! for God's sake, gentlemen in the service of the Congress, gentlemen in the
                     service of the King, don't ruin me! I'm no party to your quarrels—you'll have
                     the town upon me, and Dan Francis will be ruined."
                  The combatants, or those about to be combatants, gazed at each other with wild
                     fury at this intervention. All knew that the room was no place to finish a
                     quarrel of blood, yet, of the four, not one would admit his or
                     their wrong.
                  At this juncture, ere one of the four had sheathed a sword, or ceased
                     recriminations, two gentlemen entered the room, dressed in the Continental
                     uniform. One of them immediately advanced, and said, as he looked at the
                     parties, "Burnham, what is the meaning of this?"
                  "Ah! Williams, I am glad to see you. Let me introduce you to my friend, Captain
                     Fairfax, of Virginia, belonging to Morgan's rifle corps."
                  They exchanged salutations immediately.
                  "Now let me introduce you both to Lieut. Wilkinson,*
                      of my corps. Put up your swords—let us hear the quarrel. Gentlemen," he
                     said, politely, turning to the British officers, "you do the same. This
                     difficulty shall be ended some way—with sword or pistol, if not
                     otherwise."
                        
                        *James Wilkinson, aid to Gates at Saratoga, and Brigadier General at the
                           close of the revolution. He was in command on the Northern frontier
                           during the war of 1812, and died in Mexico (Texas) in 1823.
                     
                  The two British officers made no reply, but complied with the request of Major
                     Williams. By this time, something of a concourse had assembled in the
                     coffee-room, and, in the high state of feeling then existing between the two
                     parties of citizens known as Whigs and Tories, sides were deliberately taken.
                     To add to the trouble from so small a beginning, one of the Whigs had run to
                     the City Hall, at the head of Wall street, and commenced ringing the bell. Five
                     minutes had not passed away, before the whole street was filled with some
                     hundreds of "Liberty Boys" and others, opposed to the king's officers, and
                     ready to take vengeance in any shape, particularly upon the officers of the
                     Asia, sixty-four-gun ship, then lying in the harbor, they having fired upon the
                     citizens, whilst removing the cannon from the battery, some two months
                     before.
                  "Bring out the rascals!" "Give the rogues to us!" "Let's tar and feather the
                     king's bloody followers!" rung from lip to lip in the crowd, as they pressed
                     round the doorway of the tavern. No doubt the mobs in those days were very
                     dangerous. If records tell truth, they were very summary in their sentences and
                     punishments at times.
                  Within doors, things were passing a little more quietly, yet with no
                     satisfaction between the parties that had originated the difficulty. Neither
                     would make any apology, and the matter was finally arranged to be settled in
                     the duello way, the duel to take place next
                     morning, at seven o'clock, on Governor's Island (then a mere depot of powder
                     and provisions)—to be kept secret from the authorities. Major Williams and
                     Lieutenant Wilkinson acted as the friends of Fairfax and Burnham, and two
                     gentlemen of the city—a merchant and the King's attorney—were the friends of
                     the British officers.
                  In the meantime, the mob grew more turbulent than ever, and threatened to break
                     the windows of landlord Dan's tavern. The story of the insult which had been
                     offered two Continental officers from the army before Cambridge, by two
                     officers from the King's ship Asia, aroused the indignation of the greater part
                     of the people.
                  We will explain why it was so at this time. Even an Englishman born cannot
                     wonder. The Battery (it stood some six hundred yards from what we
                     call our present Battery, or Castle Garden, in New York,) had been furnished
                     with artillery by the city, in the times of the "old French war,"
                     to guard against the attacks of the French fleet. The citizens of New York
                     considered, and rightly, that the cannon belonged to them; that, in the early
                     part of the difficulties between the mother country and the colonies, the
                     citizens had a right to remove them if they chose. The government did not
                        pay for them.
                  In attempting to do this, the ASIA opened her batteries upon them, wounding one
                     or two men, and the "Liberty Boys" at once put their ban upon all
                     further intercourse between the ship and the shore. For this reason, it need
                     not be wondered that the difficulties without the tavern had arisen to such a
                     pitch, and that cries of "down with the officers of the Asia" rose far and wide
                     amid the crowd.
                  The keeper of the tavern was a shrewd fellow in his way, and, as he had never
                        been known to take particular
                     sides, though rather supposed to favor the people, he had acquired the title of
                     "Both Sides Dan!"
                  "Come out, 'Both Sides Dan,'" exclaimed one of the crowd—"come out and make a
                     speech, or we will tear your house down."
                  Dan heard the call, and, nothing loth to make a speech, he came out on the
                     steps, took off his hat, waived it, and the mob was on his side. "Go on, Dan
                     Francis," was the cry.
                  "Friends," said Dan, "countrymen, lovers; ain't we all lovers—of good
                        things?"
                  "Hurrah!" exclaimed a voice.
                  "You hurrah in your proper time," said Dan, looking comically at
                     the man who tossed his hat. "I come before you like a lamb, or, rather, like a
                     sheep, bound for the sacrifice, but not ready, just yet, to be killed or
                     cooked. There's better veal inside than the mutton on my ribs; if
                     you doubt me, why, a small sum well laid out in the proper place—you all know
                     where—will soon convince you. A noggin of liquor is a good thing—so is an
                     eggnogg—but, I think, a punch is better." Here he gave himself a
                     poke in a particular part of his body.
                  Of course the crowd at such a pause and movement gave a loud "hurrah." The
                     orator, the instant the cheers subsided, continued:
                  "You have sent for me here—I had rather see you
                     there." He pointed to his bar or coffee room. "You call me 'Both
                     Sides Dan'—very true, but I have a choice, and that is rather to see you
                        inside than outside of my place. Why so? Because
                     if you take a drop before, you are sure to leave a drop behind—nothing like
                        change, though I must say I prefer exchanging paper for gold
                     instead of gold for paper, but this opinion is privately between ourselves. As
                     to the quarrel inside, why that is, I believe, to be settled in an honorable
                     way—'you shoot me, I shoot you,' as the Ingen said to the porcupine. Now,
                     having finished what I have to say, I'll conclude in the right time, for fear
                     you might come to a quicker conclusion. Jake, you black scoundrel, bring out
                     that ten gallons of punch."
                  The last part of "Both Sides Dan's" speech—appealing as it did to the
                        tastes and feelings of the crowd, was received with vociferous
                     cheerings, and while the punch was being distributed, the two British officers,
                     accompanied by their friends, made their way by a back passage out of sight of
                     the crowd, to a boat awaiting them at the fort steps to carry them aboard the
                     Asia.
                  When Burnham, Fairfax, and their friends, among whom were some of the strong
                     whig leaders of the city, made their appearance at the door, they were loudly
                     cheered by the populace. It soon became noised about that the two naval
                     officers had left the house and proceeded to their vessel, and that a duel was
                     to be fought the next day, but the hour and place were unknown, and during the
                     day, the subject was discussed all over town.
                  That night a noble supper was given at "Both Sides Dan's" tavern, by Fairfax
                     and Burnham, to about a dozen of their friends, and the host's choice
                     "Montgomery" Madeira, like the widow's cruse, appeared, as Fairfax had said, to
                     be ever supplied—at least so it seemed when he paid Dan's bill the next day.
                     The party separated at a late hour, although the duel was to take place so
                     early in the morning.
                  Burnham and Fairfax had some private conversation before retiring. Mutual
                     promises were made, and requests to be complied with on the part of the
                     survivor, should either fall, were solemnly promised on both sides. They then
                     betook themselves to slumber, and, as far as we know, slept as calmly and
                     quietly as if there was nothing to disturb them the next morning.
                  A little after six they were aroused by Williams and Wilkinson, who were to act
                     as their seconds. Three or four of the supper party of the night were also in
                     attendance, and, after taking a slight breakfast, they went down to Whitehall
                     (it was called so even at that day) where a boat was in waiting to take them to
                     Governor's Island, then covered here and there with clumps of trees. They were
                     the first on the ground.
                  Just before seven, a boat from the Asia was seen approaching, and the two
                     officers leaped ashore, followed by their friends. It had been arranged that
                     the first fire (the weapons were pistols) should take place between Burnham and
                     Lieut. Anson, and as soon as either was wounded, or put hors du combat, then Fairfax and Wallace should take their shots.
                     The distance was fixed at twelve paces. At the word "advance," both parties
                     were to walk towards each other. At the word "stop," both were to halt and fire
                     as they pleased.
                  The parties took their stations at the prescribed distance. The second of the
                     English officer gave the word "advance."
                  The officers had made about three paces towards each other when the word was
                     called, "Stop."
                  This was the signal to "fire as they pleased." The British lieutenant fired
                     first—his shot whistled harmlessly by. Not two seconds after, Burnham fired,
                     and it so happened that his opponent was just dropping his arm, holding the
                     discharged pistol, when Burnham's shot glanced along the wrist and arm, tearing
                     the flesh, and passed off, shattering the bone of the elbow. The naval
                     officer's fighting days with his right arm were over forever. He was taken away
                     to the surgeon, suffering great agony. It was now the turn of Wallace and
                     Fairfax. The former fairly gnashed his teeth with rage at the fate of his
                     comrade, and he looked fury, as he took his place opposite Fairfax.
                  At this moment a good looking, middle-aged man, bearing a small ebony mace,
                     tipped with silver, and followed by a dozen men with long staves, made his
                     appearance on the ground.
                  "Gentlemen," he said, "I shall arrest you both instantly if you do not retire
                     separate ways. You, lieutenant, to your boat, and you, gentlemen, to the city.
                     I am sheriff of the city and county, and this island is in my bailwick. Come,
                     gentlemen, disperse."
                  The affair was over—for the present, at any rate. "Captain Fairfax," said
                     Wallace, "we shall meet some time or another."
                  "With the greatest pleasure, sir," was the cool reply of Fairfax.
                  The parties left the island in their respective boats. On the Battery, a crowd
                     was anxiously awaiting to hear the result. When they saw the two continental
                     officers unwounded, and heard what had happened to one of their enemies, their
                     cheers knew no bounds
                  Burnham made search throughout the city that day for Ki and Miss Manners, and
                     he was convinced that his surmises as to their being in New York were
                     incorrect. The next morning, with Fairfax, Williams and Wilkinson, he left for
                     the camp at Cambridge.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XLI.
                  The close of the summer of 1775 found the Continental Army surrounding Boston,
                     encamped at Cambridge, Roxbury, and Dorchester. Besides the troops on
                     continental establishment, large bodies of militia were constantly going and
                     coming, and, at times, the forces under Washington amounted to twenty thousand
                     men. With few exceptions, the regiments and brigades yet lacked that discipline
                     which could only ensure a contest with veterans upon anything like
                     equality.
                  A want of clothing, so as to give uniformity of appearance, and a lack of
                     fire-arms, were much felt in the American camp. Even the muskets the troops did
                     possess were of different bores, so that a ball cartridge might fit one barrel
                     and not another, and, in some regiments of a thousand men, there were not fifty
                     bayonets.
                  The phisique of the army, however, was very
                     superior. The soldiery were mostly young men, in the prime of their strength,
                     capable of enduring any fatigue, and battling for the cause of their native
                     land almost beside their own hearth-stones. There were but few of the general
                     officers who had not seen actual service in the "old French war," and, if not
                     skilled completely in European tactics, they knew the best mode of warfare for
                     the defence of their own soil.
                  Cooped up in Boston—not able to send even a foraging party to the main land,
                     without the greatest probability of its being cut off—the royalist army under
                     Gen. Gage, consisting of ten thousand veteran regulars, were, to all intents,
                     perfectly useless for carrying out any of the measures of the home
                     government.
                  At this period of time, when we look back upon the apparent imbecility
                     displayed by the British government at the breaking out of the revolution,
                     compared with the power Great Britain was really able to put forth, much wonder
                     is often expressed that the rebellion was not crushed in its
                     incipient stages. There were reasons, however, that paralyzed, for a time, the
                     acts of the British ministry.
                  The resistance made at Lexington, Concord, and Bunker's Hill—the general rising
                     of the colonies, North and South, in favor of their brethren of Massachusetts
                     Bay, and the existence of a strong party in Parliament and among the British
                     people in favor of the colonies—compelled the government to move slowly in
                     their first efforts. This gave the thirteen provinces time to arrange a general
                     mode of resistance, when difficulties could no longer be reconciled.
                  As early as May, 1775, the Congress at Philadelphia had sent an address to the
                     inhabitants of Canada,*
                      in the name of the people of the thirteen colonies, in which they
                     styled them their "Friends and Countrymen." This address was drawn up by John
                     Jay, Samuel Adams, and Silas Deane, and is truly an eloquent production.
                        
                        *See Journals of the Old Congress, vol. 1, p. 107.
                     
                  "We, for our parts," says the address, in conclusion, "are determined to live
                     free, or not at all, and we are resolved that posterity shall never reproach us
                     with having brought slaves into the world.
                  "Permit us again to repeat that we are your friends, and not your enemies, and
                     be not imposed upon by those who may endeavor to create animosities. * * * *
                     You may rely on our assurances that those colonies will pursue no measures
                     whatever, but such as friendship and a regard for our mutual safety and
                     interests may suggest.
                  "As our concern for your welfare entitles us to your friendship, we presume you
                     will not, by doing us injury, reduce us to the disagreeable necessity of
                     treating you as enemies.
                  "We yet entertain hopes of your uniting with us in the defence of our common
                     liberty, and there is yet reason to believe that, should we join in imploring
                     the attention of our sovereign to the unmerited and unparalleled oppressions of
                     his American subjects, he will at length be undeceived, and forbid a licentious
                     ministry any longer to riot in the ruins of the rights of mankind."
                  The Canadians, however, with here and there an exception, seemed little
                     inclined to side with their brethren on the more southerly portion of the
                     continent. Less numerous in population, and mostly of French origin, not so
                     deeply interested in commerce, and disliking the New Englanders especially, for
                     the part they had taken in conquering Canada from France, they rather favored
                     the English than otherwise.
                  For this reason, Congress, some months after their address to the inhabitants
                     of Canada, directed General Montgomery to take command of a portion of the
                     Northern army, and invade that country. It was also thought best that a
                     diversion should be made into Canada by another direction, the plan of which
                     was left to the Commander-in-Chief.
                  At this period, no officer of his rank in the colonies had shown more energy,
                     activity, or greater soldierly qualities than Colonel Benedict Arnold. He had
                     marched to Boston from New Haven, after the battle of Lexington, at the head of
                     the Governor's Guard, a fine company of volunteer soldiery, (the company still
                     exists under the same name,) and, not liking the idle duties of a camp life, he
                     procured a commission from the Massachusetts Provincial Congress, with
                     authority to raise a body of volunteers, and surprise Ticonderoga, where was a large quantity of artillery,
                     much needed in the American camp.
                  The celebrated Ethan Allen, of Salisbury, Connecticut, had already planned the
                     same thing, and, raising a body of "Green Mountain Boys," had very nearly
                     reached Ticonderoga, when he was overtaken by Arnold, who, showing his
                     commission, endeavored to assume command. Allen, a man of gigantic frame, and
                     as iron-willed in disposition as in body, declared to Arnold that there should
                     be no leader but him, as he had raised the men on his "own hook," but that, if
                     he felt inclined, he might serve as a volunteer. Arnold was forced to submit,
                     but he entered the fortress side by side with Allen, when the latter told
                     Captain De La Place, the British officer in command, that he took possession of
                     Ticonderoga "in the name of the great Jehovah and the Continental Congress!"
                     Arnold soon after captured Crown Point, and performed other gallant feats on
                     Lake Champlain, that gained him an enviable reputation.
                  The plan arranged by Washington was kept with much secresy. It was to send up
                     through the woods of the (then) Province of Maine, twelve hundred of his
                     choicest troops, as well supplied as his magazines would allow, to join
                     Montgomery before Quebec, and with the united forces, attack that strong
                     fortress, then but slightly garrisoned, and held by Sir Guy Carleton, Governor
                     of Canada.
                  He selected Arnold to command this expedition, on its long and tedious march.
                     This officer was full of energy, quick and prompt in his decisions, and a rigid
                     disciplinarian. At times, he was almost tyrannical to those under him, but his
                     established bravery and talents, and his great devotion to the cause at that
                     time, were considered ample excuses for much of his conduct.
                  It was while bearing despatches and instructions from Congress in relation to
                     this expedition, that the misfortune happened to Ki, as before related. When
                     the plan had been fully matured, and the troops detailed for this important
                     expedition from the different brigades, application upon application flowed in
                     to the Commander-in-Chief from various officers, requesting permission to join
                     the troops under marching orders, until he was compelled, in general orders, to
                     direct no more such requests to be made.
                  Among those who had made application, was Burnham, requesting permission to
                     withdraw from the staff of the Commander-in-Chief, and with his company, join
                     the expedition. The request was firmly but gently declined, for reasons that
                     would have made any young officer proud, coming from the lips of
                     Washington.
                  At the quarters of Fairfax, around the table after dinner, enjoying themselves
                     over a bottle of their sherry, sat Dan Morgan, of the rifles, Fairfax,
                     Williams, Wilkinson and Burnham. Morgan, though an uneducated man, possessed a
                     great share of shrewd common sense, and was full of boisterous humor.
                  Two companies of the rifles, under his command—he having been appointed to the
                     rank of Major—had been detailed for Arnold's expedition, and one of the
                     companies was that of Fairfax. The idea of separating from his friend, was to
                     Burnham a great source of regret, if not pain, and it was in the hopes of being
                     with him, that Burnham had first made his application to join the detachment.
                     At the table of his friend, he now sat silent and reserved, for in a few days
                     they were to separate.
                  "Come, come, Captain," said Morgan, in his loud but cheerful voice, to Burnham,
                     "try another glass of this wine of Fairfax's—it is rather sloppy and lacks the
                        spirit of our Blue Mountain whiskey, I admit, but it cost him
                     enough, for all that, I reckon—drink, drink, lad, and don't look as dull as a
                     sick raccoon in a smut cornfield."
                  "Thank you, Major. If I'm dull, which I confess I am, you must remember there
                     is a cause. Are you not all to be actively employed, while I am to drudge on
                     idly in camp."
                  "True, true—something in that, but if I'm told right, this marching through the
                     woods of Canada will be no play or fun. To a woodman like me, who has slept for
                     weeks under the shelter of nothing but a green bush, and a mossy log for a
                     pillow, why, the deprivation of house comfort will not be very great. Thank
                     your stars that you remain, my lad."
                  "I should rather partake of these hardships with you, Major Morgan, than stay
                     where I am. To be a true soldier, one must expect some hardships, and the
                     sooner learned the better. But, as you say drink, why, drink it is. I'll throw
                     off the sullenness that is in me, and try to be a little more lively. Are your
                     glasses all filled?"
                  "All," said Fairfax, who felt himself a little of the feelings of Harry, when
                     he thought upon their speedy separation.
                  "The Commander-in-Chief.—The man who does not obey his orders contentedly, is
                     not worthy the name of soldier," was the toast of Burnham.
                  The toast was received with hearty acclamations, particularly as it came from
                     the one present who felt most deeply chagrined at being left behind by such
                     orders.
                  "If I dared, Burnham, after that," said Morgan, "I would ask the General to let
                     you go along. But, somehow, when I get in his presence, I feel always kind of
                     dumb, and I blunder out something that I don't half understand myself."
                  An orderly entered with a message.
                  "The Commander-in-Chief desires to see Captain Burnham immediately."
                  Burnham rose, saying that it was, probable, some slight inquiry to be made of
                     him, in regard to a message he had been directed to deliver that morning to
                     Colonel Arnold, and that he would soon return. If he could not, he would send
                     them word, but, by no means, to break up the party on his account.
                  In a few moments after, Burnham was in the presence of Washington, at head
                     quarters. The General was alone, engaged in reading some letters, from quite a
                     number before him.
                  "I have sent for you, Captain Burnham," he said, after requesting him to be
                     seated, "to grant you the request I declined this morning, if you have not
                     changed your mind. You have served faithfully as one of my family, and I was
                     unwilling to lose your services about my person, for they are valuable.
                     However, as yourself and Captain Fairfax are firm friends, and he goes on the
                     expedition, I do not wish to separate you."
                  "I certainly, your excellency, had a desire to go on this expedition, for
                     various reasons," replied Burnham. "It would be my first lesson as a soldier,
                     in really active service, and there will be no other chance, from appearances,
                     this campaign. The kind feeling and the manner in which you refused me such
                     permission to-day, gratefully soothed me, and made me more than ever attached
                     to your Excellency. If my conduct since I have been a member of your staff, has
                     been such as to win your approbation, I desire no other reward. It is true,
                     Capt. Fairfax and myself are of the same age, and we passed our collegiate
                     studies together, but the friendship that exists between us, either would be
                     willing to break, to win your Excellency's good opinion, for, upon you rests
                     the shield which is to guard the freedom of the colonies."
                  Burnham spoke with great feeling, surprised at Washington's consent to his
                     joining the expedition, when he had refused his own personal request in the
                     morning; he thought that something might have occurred to lessen him in the
                     opinion of the Commander-in-Chief since their last interview.
                  "My dear young friend," said Washington, who understood in an instant the
                     feelings of his aid, "my wishes and inclinations are as unchanged
                     as they were this morning. Do not mistake me—I should prefer your remaining in
                     my family, much more than you have wishes to go with this expedition—read
                     that." He handed Burnham a note, which the latter perused eagerly.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 QUARTERS AT ROXBURY.
                                 MY DEAR GENERAL:—
                              
                              Captain Chester's wounds are yet too dangerous for him to assume
                                 command of the company chosen from my old regiment to go with
                                 Arnold. I would respectfully suggest as his successor your aid,
                                 Captain Harry Burnham. His father served with distinguished credit
                                 in the old French war; and I know the soldiers, for his sake, will
                                 esteem his son.
                              
                                 I have the honor, &c.,
                                 ISRAEL PUTNAM, M. G.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "I will remain in your Excellency's staff," said Burnham, firmly, as he
                     returned the paper, a glow of pride lighting up his countenance at the allusion
                     to his father in Putnam's letter.
                  "I admire your good feeling towards me, Burnham," said Washington, with one of
                     those smiles he seldom bestowed, but, when bestowed, felt in the
                     heart of the recipient—"but it is now my order that you join this
                     expedition. I shall detach you from your own company, for it forms part of my
                     body guard, and I cannot afford to lose both men and Captain at once. In the
                     meantime, make all your arrangements, for it is necessary that the troops leave
                     as soon as possible. I have some private oral instructions to give you—they
                     will be made in due time. Consider yourself now relieved from farther duty on
                     my staff, but do not forget my table or the dinner."
                  He took a letter from the table as he finished speaking, which Burnham
                     understood as a signal that the interview was ended, and with proper courtesy,
                     the officer left the room. He was met in the hall by one of Mrs. Washington's
                     female servants.
                  "Captain Burnham, my lady desires much to see you.
                  "Lead me to her ladyship."
                  In the reception room of the mansion, Burnham found Mrs. Washington, who rose
                     to receive him.
                  "So, my young chevalier, you are already sighing to leave the General and
                     myself for a winter's tramp through the woods. Just as I had made my
                     arrangements for some little life at quarters this winter, lo! one of our
                     favorites leave us."
                  "My lady, it is true that I made application for active service, which was
                     declined, but I have since received orders to hold myself in readiness to
                     accompany Col. Arnold's expedition. The chief regret I feel, I can say
                     sincerely, is leaving yourself and the good General."
                  "Young officers will be young officers, and I hope, my dear Captain, that you
                     may meet with the opportunity to distinguish yourself that you desire, and
                     return to us again without wound or injury."
                  "I thank you, my lady, for your kind wishes, and I trust that the hope so
                     friendly made, will be fulfilled. But whatever may happen to me, I shall ever
                     cherish warmly in my heart, so long as that heart shall beat, the kindness
                     bestowed upon me by the Commander-in-Chief and his lady."
                  "When do the troops take up their line of march?"
                  "In a week's time, my lady."
                  "Then, as a matter of course, I shall expect to see you daily at our table
                     until that time."
                  Burnham hesitated in making a reply.
                  "No denial—it must be considered as settled. You will be a member of our
                     family, up to the day of your departure."
                  "As you wish, Madam," said Burnham, in a voice quivering somewhat with emotion,
                     "this continued kindness I am unworthy of."
                  "Your mother, is she living?"
                  "Both my parents were alive, my lady, a few days since, when I had letters from
                     home."
                  "Then I claim to take the place of your mother here. Consider this house your
                     home as long as you remain. Go, go; I will detain you no longer."
                  Burnham bowed, his heart was filled to overflowing, as he took his departure.
                     This sketch, in point of fact, is true. Throughout the Revolution, to all the
                     young officers of the Commander-in-Chief's staff, Mrs. Washington was like the
                     kindest of mothers. In sickness or in health, as long as she remained in camp
                     or at head quarters, every member of her illustrious husband's family was
                     treated with the same attention and fondness they could have found at home.
                  
                  When Burnham returned to his friends at the quarters of Fairfax, his face was
                     flushed. and his steps rapid. Without saying a word to any of the party, he
                     took his seat, deliberately poured out a glass of wine, which he drank at a
                     swallow, and said, looking around,
                  "Now I feel better."
                  "Why, my lad," said Morgan, "you look as if you had been chased by a bear or a
                     painter—speak out, what ails you. Is the sergeant of the guard in pursuit of
                     you?"
                  "No. Something better than that."
                  "Have you been raised a grade, and made Deputy Adjutant General to Gates?"
                     inquired Fairfax.
                  "Deputy Adjutant General—pshaw!"
                  "What then?"
                  "I am to go with you to Quebec, hurrah!"
                  "Hurrah!" echoed all, and "hurrah" it was, for the space of a minute, in
                     general chorus.
                  Burnham then briefly related the conversation that had taken place with
                     Washington, with a gratification that hardly knew bounds
                  "So, you are to be one of us, my lad. Well, it is no more than right, on this
                     occasion, you should put your first instalment into the mess. More wine, more
                     wine, and somewhat stronger let it be," exclaimed Morgan.
                  "With all my heart," answered Burnham. "Frank, order up the remainder of your
                     stores, and consider myself indebted to you for the present."
                  More wine was ordered in, and the whole party soon became elated and
                     merry—socially so.
                  "Come, Morgan," said Fairfax, "give us a story of some of your adventures in
                     the Kenhawa, among the bears and Indians of that wild region. Let it be one of
                     the 'long bow' kind—so near truth that it is hard to tell the difference."
                  "No one ever dared to doubt my faculty for truth-telling, except you, Frank,"
                     said Morgan, "and you, being a mere 'buckskin,' are excusable. So I trust the
                     gentlemen present, will believe my story. About ten years ago, I was out with a
                     party in the Kenhawa country, deer hunting. There were twenty of us, all told,
                     for we had to hunt in couples, for fear of the Ingens, then a little
                     quarrel-some like. We had been out nearly a fortnight, and our ammunition was
                     getting low, when it was proposed we should make tracks for home.
                  "Now it so happened not a single bear had been shot by the company during all
                     this time, and I swore I wouldn't go back to the settlements till I killed one.
                     Off I started, alone, from the camp, with my rifle, and only three charges of
                     powder and ball, for that was all I could scrape out of the company. I promised
                     to be back by afternoon, bear or no bear.
                  "On I journeyed for hours into the woods, but no bear or signs of one was to be
                     seen, and the sun kept sinking lower and lower. I got into a clearing in the
                     middle of the woods, where was a tree torn up by the roots, and was thinking of
                     turning back, when I heard a cub growl. Sure enough, in the hollow left by the
                     torn up roots, I saw a couple of quarter grown cubs, regular beauties.
                  "To cut their throats with my hunting knife was the work of a minute, and
                     shouldering their bodies, I left the hole. I hadn't got ten yards through the
                     clearing, when I saw the old she bear, five hundred weight at least, making for
                     me quick step, and growling like heavy thunder. She had been out, foraging, and
                     was on her way home. I turned to make tracks the other way, when, there I saw
                     an Injin, painted in regular war colors, rifle up, barring my move that way. I
                     was in a quandary, I tell ye— Mr. Bear one way, Mr. Redskin t'other.
                  "I soon made up my mind, and moved cat-a-cornered sideways, keeping one eye in
                     each direction, which made me squint eyed for a week after. But this couldn't
                     last long, for both kept getting nearer and nearer, and I begun to smell
                     eternity in a way no wise agreeable. Providence came to my aid finally, for I
                     spied right in my path a sink hole, just about big enough for me to squat out
                     of sight, though rather miry.
                  "Of a sudden, down I plumped, and wasn't to be seen. It was rather
                     surprisin' to bear and Ingen both, I reckon, for I heard one growl and t'other
                     grunt a leetle more mad than peaceable. The bear made for the
                     Ingen, and the Ingen had to fire at the bear, for he was too near to get off by
                     scamperin'. I heard a terrible squealin' and huggin' goin' on in the clearin',
                     for the Ingen had missed fire!
                  "Up I jumps, and there, sure enough, was bear and redskin in a grand wrestlin'
                     match. Oh! talk of your sublime, it was beautiful.—Thinks I to myself, you may
                     as well fight it out, I won't interfere, devil take the victor. So I made the
                     best of my way to camp with the two dead cubs.
                  "A week after that, I heard from some hunters that the fight was still goin'
                     on, and, like me, they concluded the parties had better fight it out. So, after
                     lookin' on for half a day, bettin' atween themselves, now on the Ingen, now on
                     the bear, they got tired, for they said it looked as if the battle was only
                     just beginnin'. How the fight ended I never heard, perhaps they are at it
                     now—at any rate, I'll bet odds that if the bear hasn't licked the
                     Ingen yet, he will finally."
                  When Morgan finished his bear story, the company thought it time to separate,
                     particularly as the Virginia rifleman offered to fight any one who doubted the
                     truth of his narrative!
               
               
                  CHAPTER XLII.
                  The morning of the 13th September, 1775, was clear and bracing. On that morning
                     there was a great movement in the camp at Cambridge. It was the day Arnold was
                     to start upon his march with his detachment for the purpose of invading Canada
                     by a route little expected by the enemy.
                  The body of men under his command amounted to eleven or twelve hundred,
                     consisting of ten companies of musketmen and three companies of riflemen. They
                     were Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Connecticut and Virginia troops, picked
                     men—all in the prime of life, and in perfect health. The field officers, under
                     Arnold, were Colonels Christopher Green,*
                      of Rhode Island, and Roger Enos, of Massachusetts; Major Return J.
                     Meigs, of Connecticut, Timothy Bigelow, of Massachusetts, and acting Major
                     Daniel Morgan, of Virginia.
                        
                        *This gallant officer, who defeated Count Donop, at Red Bank, was
                           afterwards killed in command of a Block House in Westchester County, N.
                           Y.
                     
                  Among the subordinates and volunteers, who afterwards became distinguished in
                     the revolution, were Ward, Dearborn, Aaron Burr, Ogden, and others—most of them
                     hardly of age, but filled with ambitious and aspiring hopes to become
                     distinguished in the service of their country. The revolution brought out many
                     gallant spirits that otherwise would have passed away "unknown to fame," and
                     the expedition to Quebec, through the woods of Maine, showed the endurance and
                     fortitude of many a gallant soldier.
                  "Come, pack up, pack up, Marc Antony, or you will not be a soldier equal to
                     your great Roman namesake."
                  This was said, in a merry tone, by Captain Frank Fairfax, to a favorite negro
                     servant, who had accompanied his master, with the rifles, from Virginia.
                  "Why, Massa Frank," said the negro, with a grin, "guess I got more tings den
                     mose ob de ossifers to pack up Oh, possum!—how many shirts you tink Major
                     Morgan's boy, Dick, hab to tie up for his massa?"
                  "Shirts, Marc? Perhaps a dozen, whole and ragged, all told."
                  "A dozen!" echoed the negro, turning up his eyes, with an expression of
                     wonder.
                  "Well, perhaps I said too many, for it now comes to my recollection that he
                     borrowed a couple of me on the march."
                  "Sar, he hab 'zactly two shirts and a half. Dat's what Dick tell me, and Dick
                     and I am sworn niggers, togedder as one friend."
                  "But I don't understand about the half shirt, Marc—how do you make
                     that out?"
                  "Dick say dat one hab but one arm and no back—he, he, he!" and the negro roared
                     at his own wit until he began to choke.
                  "It is rather unfortunate for Morgan, I confess, Marc. But come,
                     hurry now, for we march this afternoon, and the baggage must be in the wagon
                     before twelve. Give me a list of my wearing apparel, if your head is
                     mathematical enough."
                  "Well, sar, I tell you zactly," and he began to count on his fingers. "Seben
                     shirts beside de one you hab on. Two huntin' shirts and leggins. One cap ob
                     wolf skin, one ob wool. One great coat and one waistcoat. One pair ob boots,
                     and one pair ob ole shoes. Four hankechuffs, two shoe buckles, nine needles,
                     and four skeins of tread. Dis is all, sar, upon the honor ob a nigger," and
                     Marc Antony touched his wool with one hand, and placed upon his breast the
                     other, with all the pride and dignity of a more distinguished character.
                  "A very fair list, Marc, and more than some of my brother officers can boast
                     of, combined, I fear. But work on, and get them together as rapidly as
                     possible, for there is but little time to lose."
                  "Ho! Frank Fairfax, Captain of Virginia Rifles, hast thou a shirt to lend?"
                     exclaimed a stentorian voice, close behind. The Captain turned, and beheld the
                     well-known face of Morgan.
                  "Why, Major Dan," replied Fairfax, in a humorous tone, "I have just been
                     squaring shirt accounts with Marc Antony, here, and we figure up a balance of
                     two against you, now."
                  "Sir, would you quarrel with your superior officer about the matter of a couple
                     of shirts? Would you disgrace our corps, sir, by having its Major send word to
                     the Commander-in-Chief that he could not take punch with him,
                     because he had no shirt to wear? Is this old Virginny, sir?"
                  "Ah! now you touch me, Major Dan. For the honor of old Virginia, my superior
                     officer shall receive the loan of a shirt. Marc Antony, pick out the best one
                     from yonder seven. There, Major, is one that is ruffled with at least a yard of
                     cambric."
                  "Frank, my lad—Frank, you are made after my own heart. To tell the truth, Dick,
                     the black rascal, packed up all my baggage last night, and stowed away all my
                     shirts. So, you see, I am driven to borrow, my lad, to borrow."
                  At the mention of the words "all my shirts," Marc Antony grinned and chuckled
                     to such an extent, that the iron-fisted Major stepped forward, and, seizing him
                     by the ear, gave it such a pull that his grinning was turned to wailing.
                  "Mighty Hebbens! Massa Major Morgan, dat ear am full ob feeling. Oh! Lor, sar,
                     don't gib such a pull!"
                  "Then, Marc Antony, Julius Cæsar, Joshua son of Nun, or some other Greek,
                     Carthagenian, or Roman, never grin in my presence, d'ye hear? If you do, by old
                     Virginny, I'll cut off your ears with my hunting knife. Now, Fairfax, I'm going
                     into another room to put on the garment you have loaned me, and, when I come
                     back, I have an order for you."
                  While the Major was absent, Marc Antony continued packing up the things, under
                     the direction of his master, and the work was soon completed. He was then
                     directed to carry them to the officers' baggage-wagon of the rifle
                     battalion.
                  "Now, Fairfax," said Morgan, when he returned, the ruffles of the shirt
                     protruding at least a foot from his hunting uniform—"the Commander-in-Chief has
                     especially invited all the officers of the expedition to come up to
                     head-quarters at one o'clock, to take a glass of wine with him before taking up
                     our line of march. Go, my lad, get ready."
                  "The hour is one, do you say, Major?"
                  "Yes. The officers of my command I have directed to meet here. Then we go to
                     Arnold's quarters, where we shall find the rest, and from thence march to the
                     Commander-in-Chief's, in a body. A fine looking set there will be of us."
                  "I suppose, Major, we shall have a speech from the General on the occasion. We
                     must have 'eyes to the right' in earnest, for, when Washington speaks, it is to the purpose, and
                     with the dignity of a man and a soldier."
                  "Yes, Captain, it's 'attention' on such occasions. No man, some how or other,
                     that ever I met with, and I've seen many a big one—British Generals, from
                     Braddock down—could make me feel so small in my opinion by comparison, as the
                     learned say, as General Washington, God bless him."
                  "Very true, Major, very true, and you are not the first one that has said the
                     same thing. But see—here comes Hendrick, Stanton, Orderly Porterfield, and the
                     others; I must get ready for our last visit."
                  A number of the Virginia officers entered the room and the usual greetings
                     passed between them. A fine body of officers they were. Most of them belonged
                     to the first families of their native colony, and eagerly embraced the
                     opportunity, when Congress ordered the raising of the rifle regiment, of
                     joining the army. From Morgan's famous rifle corps, even from the ranks, during
                     the revolution, were produced many distinguished commanders, who afterwards
                     served with great and distinguished success in the campaigns under Green, at
                     the South. The memory of Morgan, uneducated as he was, will ever shine with
                     lustre in the military records of the revolution.
                  "Welcome, lads—welcome, all. Do honor, to-day, to old Virginny, for we are
                     going to take leave of Washington, and it's likely we shan't all of us put eyes
                     on him agin—perhaps none of us will. Recollect, too, lads, that the General is
                     a 'Buckskin' himself, and thinks a deal of the rifles, for the honor of old
                     Virginny. So look out, lads, and show yourselves gentlemen."
                  In the course of an hour, after partaking of a little refreshment at Fairfax's,
                     (or "slops," as Morgan called the wine, and finishing the last of it, "merely
                     to get it out of the way," as he still further added,) the officers, in a body,
                     marched to the quarters of Arnold, not far from those of the General Here were
                     found assembled the officers of the other corps, the whole, when united,
                     forming a body of gallant-looking men.
                  Arnold greeted them with studied politeness. He was dressed in full uniform,
                     made of rich materials, more so than any other officer in the army, for pride
                     in dress and equipage, on all occasions, was one of his failings. Indeed, it
                     was his extravagant mode of living that, in a great measure, caused his fall,
                     at a later period, from the high estimation in which he was held by his
                     countrymen—a fall which will carry his name with execration to the latest
                     posterity.
                  The orderly, at his side, was also dressed in rich attire, and it was remarked
                     among some of the officers in attendance, that "Arnold might be a brave
                     officer, but he was certainly not much of a republican in his habits." This
                     remark was remembered several years after, when he became a traitor and an
                     outcast.
                  "I am glad, gentlemen," he said, in rather a pompous tone, "to see you all so
                     punctual in your attendance. Punctuality and obedience are the first duties of
                     men in our profession, and, I doubt not, we shall have many occasion to find it
                     out in the arduous duties before us, during the campaign in which we are all
                     about to engage.
                  "The Commander-in-Chief has selected me for an important command, and placed
                     under me the flower of the army together with the choicest of his officers.
                     You, gentlemen, constitute my subordinates, and there cannot be a doubt but the
                     duty before you will be performed with ardor and cheerfulness On my part, I
                     shall endeavor to do justice to all, nor shall I fail to remember those who are
                     foremost in action. Now, gentlemen, we will proceed to head-quarters."
                  On reaching head-quarters, they found a guard of honor, from the Life Guards,
                     drawn up, and they were received with the proper salute. Escorted by two of the
                     aids of his Excellency, they entered the dining-room of the mansion. Here they
                     were saluted by Washington, who, surrounded by his staff, was in waiting to
                     receive them.
                  Two tables, extending the whole length of the room, were covered with cold
                     meats, in great variety, together with pastry, wines, and various refreshments
                     in abundance At a signal, the whole party seated themselves at the tables, and
                     partook of the bounties before them. Many an anxious eye was turned in the
                     direction of Washington, who was seated at the head of the board, Arnold on his
                     right, and Adjutant General Gates on his left.
                  The General perceiving, from the silence that gradually took place, after a
                     short time, and the looks cast toward the head of the table, that it was
                     expected of him to say something to them on this occasion—their parting
                     moment—rose
                  "Gentlemen," said he, "you are, one and all, soon to be engaged in an
                     enterprize as honorable as it may seem dangerous. To a soldier, tenacious of
                     honor and proud to acquire the praise of his country, the post of danger is one
                     of pride. The path that leads to victory and fame is never destitute of thorns,
                     and he who is most courageous in pressing onward in the hour of trial, is sure
                     and certain to receive the reward due to bravery and honor."
                  "We are engaged in a rightful cause—a cause which all the world, with the
                     exception of our oppressors, considers just. We have ever been faithful in our
                     allegiance to the parent country, but we partake too much of her blood to
                     become slaves. Already have we made the arm of oppression tremble, and half the
                     battle is won. To preserve our rights, we have taken up the weapons of war, and
                     never will lay them down until these rights are guaranteed to us beyond
                     dispute.
                  "You, my fellow soldiers, are about to march on a long and perilous expedition.
                     The plan has been matured with caution, and you have every reason to hope for
                     success. If we can succeed in driving the British soldiers out of Canada, by
                     the capture of Quebec, we shall hold possession of the key to all the northern
                     provinces. Much, therefore, rests upon you, and I feel sure that what men
                        can accomplish you will succeed in doing."
                  "The service that you undertake is one indeed most glorious, if successful. One
                     that will add to the fame and honor of each one engaged in it. If the arms of
                     the colonies added to the weight of England's power, once conquered Louisburg,
                     Quebec, and, finally, the whole of Canada, how much greater the success and the
                     honor if the troops of the colonies accomplish it alone, and at the present
                     time?
                  "Remember this, brother soldiers, and go into the combat with zeal,
                     determination, and true valor. Let your conduct throughout be such as becomes
                     Americans. Be merciful to the enemy when vanquished—be friends to all who ask
                     your protection. Remember that humanity is one of the cardinal points of the
                     patriot's compass, and as it is given, so will it be returned.
                  "I trust that the Divine Providence who has hitherto protected us through the
                     war, will be your shield on the march and on the field of
                     conflict. Without His aid, the power of man is useless. Do not forget your
                     reliance upon Him, wherever and however you may be situated, and think of this
                     at all hours. May you be successful—the voice of a grateful country will be
                     raised high in your praise, for you may well say: "We have struck the decisive
                     blow of the campaign, and broken the main reliance of tyrants.' With this glass
                     of wine, I now drink to the success of the expedition to Canada through the
                     woods of Maine. May honor and renown follow you in your career."
                  There was silence for a moment—then rose one loud and deafening cheer, that
                     echoed and re-echoed through the building. When this ended, Arnold, as
                     commander of the expedition, made a brief speech in reply, pledging for his men
                     and himself, victory, if victory was to be won.
                  Washington, again rising, said "that he had something to say in the presence of
                     the officers before they separated. Among you goes one who has been for some
                     time a member of my military family. I have ever found him disinterested,
                     generous, kind, with a heart breathing the purest patriotism. I wish to present
                     him with some testimonial of my remembrance and regard. Captain Burnham, I give
                     to you these pistols—they were carried by me in Braddock's fight. Never use
                     them except in the cause of your country."
                  Taken by surprise, Burnham dared hardly look up, as the weapons were brought to
                     him. He could hardly stammer forth a few words in reply—what he knew not—but he
                     was afterwards told that he acquitted himself remarkably well.
                  Most of the officers pressed round the Commander-in-Chief, to 
                        tak 
                        take
                      him by the hand, at their final separation. He received them all with
                     that courtesy which was ever so eminent in all that he did or said.
                  When Burnham approached him, the latter felt a deep pressure of the hand as he
                     clasped that of the Commander-in-Chief. "Mrs. Washington would like to see
                     you," was said in a low tone—"Farewell!"
                  When Burnham went out of the room, overcome almost with emotion, he proceeded
                     directly to the parlor of the General's lady. A few officers were present.
                  "Ah!" said she at once, "you have come to bid me farewell, I perceive, Captain.
                     The kindest and best of friends must separate sometimes."
                  "Yes, my lady, and this separation is harder to endure than I supposed."
                  "Oh! never fear, we shall meet again. Here is something that I wish you to wear
                     in remembrance of me. It is part of a soldier's dress, and I am certain that he
                     who wears it will not forget the giver, nor ever disgrace his country."
                  She placed a beautiful silk sash, such as was worn by the officers of the day,
                     around his waist, and tied it in a soldier's knot.
                  "My lady, when I forget you or your noble husband, may my God forget me." He
                     raised her hand to his lips, the tears falling thick and fast, and hurriedly
                     left the room.
                  In an hour's time, the troops were under arms, and on their march (under a
                     salute from the whole camp) to Newburyport, where they were to embark for the
                     mouth of the Kennebec, and thence pursue their dreary way through the
                     wilderness to Quebec.
               
               END OF PART FIRST.
            
            
               PART SECOND.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  The invasion of Canada was the first warlike movement on the part of the
                     Americans, considered in the light of an offensive instead of the defensive
                     prosecution of the war.
                  Our last chapter concluded with the commencement of the march of the troops
                     under Arnold, destined for Canada. We shall give the details of the route in
                     journal form, interspersed with events as they occurred, here and there, not
                     actually connected with Burnham's MS. journal, which now lies before us, yellow
                     with age, and mildewed occasionally from dampness, as it became wet from the
                     upsetting of the canoes and batteaux amid the rapids of the Kennebec.
                  The heading to the journal we copy, just as written in Burnham's own hand:—
                  "I commence this journal on the day of our departure, in which I intend to give
                     a true narration of our march, under Benedict Arnold, to Quebec. I am induced
                     to keep the journal for the purpose of transmitting it, should God spare my
                     life, to my revered parents. Cambridge, 3 P. M., September 13th, 1775. H.
                     B."
                  We commence the extracts from the day of his arrival with his company, and the
                     rest of the detachment, at Newburyport.
                  "September 17th.—To-day is the Sabbath. We are encamped on a pleasant spot near
                     the town. Our tents were pitched last evening at sundown, and, this morning, we
                     have been visited by numbers of the town people, who treat us with great
                     kindness, supplying us with fresh
                     provisions, for which they will take nothing.
                  "Immediately after breakfast, the whole detachment (with the exception of the
                     necessary camp guards) put on clean undress uniforms, for the purpose of
                     attending divine service at the several churches in the town. Soon after,
                     Colonel Arnold was waited upon by the Rev. Mr. Parsons, and the other ministers
                     of the town, who politely offered us seats in their respective churches. At ten
                     o'clock A. M., my company, with the three companies of rifles under Major
                     Daniel Morgan, marched to Dr. Parsons' church. Pews had been reserved for us in
                     the body of the house. The sermon was a very patriotic one, the text from
                     Chronicles:—'Zebulon and Napthali were a people who jeoparded themselves unto
                     death, in the high places of the field.' Mem.—The church was
                     crowded, and, judging from the pretty faces of the women, Newburyport contains
                     a great deal of beauty.
                  "Morgan, Fairfax, Hendricks and myself dined, by invitation, with the minister,
                     Mr. Parsons. The dinner was an excellent one, and his family treated us with
                     great attention. In the afternoon, on guard. Went to bed early, Fairfax and
                     myself occupying the same tent.
                  "Sept. 18th.—A beautiful day, the weather mild and bracing. We are now packing
                     up everything, to put on board the transports, expecting to embark early in the
                     morning. The people continue their kind treatment to us. Detailed as officer of
                     the guard for the night.
                  "Sept. 19th.—Early this morning, we embarked on board ten sloops, to proceed to
                     the mouth of the Kennebec Morgan's, Fairfax's and Hendrick's companies, with my
                     own, are on board the sloop Liberty. Arnold's vessel, the flag-ship of the
                     fleet, is called the Britannia.
                  "The following orders were read on board each vessel—they were written by
                     Arnold himself*
                     :—
                        
                        *We give this curious document verbatim.
                           It shows Arnold's knowledge of nautical affairs, for he had been several
                           voyages to the West Indies, as Captain and supercargo, from New
                           Haven.
                     
                  "'First signal, for speaking with the whole fleet—Ensign at the main-topmast
                     head.
                  "'Second signal, for chasing a sail—Ensign at the fore-topmast head.
                  "'Third signal, for heaving-to—The lantern at the main-topmast head, and two
                     guns if head on shore, and three, if off shore.
                  "'Fourth signal, for making sail in the night—One lantern at the main-topmast
                     head, and four guns. In the day, jack at the fore-topmast head.
                  "'Fifth signal, for dispersing, and every vessel making the nearest
                     harbor—Ensign at the main peak.
                  "'Sixth signal, for boarding any vessel—A jack at the main-topmast head. The
                     whole fleet to draw up in a line, as near as possible.'
                  "The wind was quite fair for our voyage, and the sea, during the day, rough.
                     Morgan and Fairfax were quite sea-sick, but I never felt better or enjoyed
                     myself more. There was a beautiful moon, and I remained on deck till near
                     daylight.
                  "Sept. 20th.—On getting up this morning, found the whole fleet in sight, and
                     making for the mouth of the river Kennebec, which was pointed out to me, by the
                     skipper, right before us. We were the first of the fleet that entered the
                     river, which is narrow at the mouth. A body of soldiers, under arms, were on
                     the nearest shore, who hailed us, and ordered us to lie-to. The Captain of the
                     vessel answered that he was in want of a pilot, and that the fleet contained
                     continental troops. They gave us loud cheers, sent a pilot on board, and we
                     proceeded up the river, the tide being right for us.
                  "The shores of the river are mostly rocky, the water deep, and the tide quite
                     strong. At places, the river is a mile wide, and others not more than
                     one-quarter of a mile. Passed an island on which was a church and many fine
                     houses. About twenty-five miles from the mouth of the river, we came to a block
                     house, where we cast anchor, and went on shore. The place is called Gardiner's
                     Town. I slept on shore at a wood-chopper's house, and was received with the
                     welcome of a prince. though the accommodations were homely. My fare was some
                     fine fried fish and broiled venison ham. Morgan and Fairfax did not land. Mem.—Virginia mountaineers will get sea-sick. The wood-chopper was
                     a very pleasant companion, full of anecdote, and still fuller of patriotism.
                     His wife, not very intelligent, but, with all her simplicity, striving to make
                     everything comfortable. They would take nothing in the shape of money, so I
                     gave the woman a new silk bandanna handkerchief, which pleased them both.
                  "Sept. 21.—Up very early, and shot four partridges in the woods close by, where
                     they were very plenty. Morgan, Fairfax, and the officers from our vessel
                     landed. All of us took breakfast at the wood chopper's with a hearty welcome.
                     It is but fifteen days since orders were given us to march from Cambridge, and
                     in that space of time, here, at Gardiner's Town, are about twelve hundred of
                     us, with all our arms, ammunition, baggage, &c. 200 batteaux have been
                     built, and are now ready to receive us at this place. Engaged all day in
                     landing the men and stores, and putting them on board the batteaux. A large
                     number of the inhabitants to-day were highly pleased with the skill of our
                     riflemen. Morgan put a ball through the head of a turkey at 250 yards, with his
                     rifle at arm's length. As at Newburyport, the people do all they can for us
                     individually, and will receive no pay. Col. Arnold came up during the
                     afternoon, and landed with a good deal of pomp, a salute being fired.
                  "Sept. 22.—The first division embarked in the batteaux. The three companies of
                     rifles and my own being in the van, under the command of Major Meigs. Each
                     batteaux carries from ten to fifteen men with the baggage. They are light
                     built, for the purpose of being carried over the obstructions of the river.
                     Requested permission that Fairfax and myself might be in the same batteau,
                     which was granted. At night drew in shore, where we ate a hearty supper, to
                     which the fatigue of the day brought a good appetite. At dark Fairfax engaged
                     in reading Marshal Renwick's Memoires, by the light of pitch pine splinters,
                     Morgan oiling his rifle, and myself annoying Fairfax by blowing on an old
                     flute, much to the amusement of Morgan. The latter I like more and more; there
                     is something truly noble in his bold, hearty backwood frankness. Between
                     fatigue and my instrument, fifed myself to sleep.
                  "Sept. 23.—This morning, after reveille and
                     breakfast, went up the river about six miles, to the place of rendezvous called
                     Fort Western. The fort stands on the eastern side of the river. It consists of
                     two block houses, joined by a house of considerable length, all enclosed in
                     pickets. Here the men all disembarked, and the officers of our party were
                     politely invited by the owner of the property on which the block houses stand,
                     a gentleman, named Howard, to take up our quarters at his residence, which we
                     at once accepted. We found him a person of education, and quite refined in his
                     manners. He gave us, after dinner, some excellent old rum, which his
                     grandfather brought from Jamaica, on a voyage made some forty years before.
                     While enjoying ourselves, an orderly came in rapid haste for Morgan and the
                     rest of us.
                  "It appeared that a party of our men had been in a small shanty, kept by a
                     Scotchman, who was a tory, and that some words ensued between him and his
                     friends, and a soldier, from a Massachusetts company, named Cornish, when the
                     latter was turned out of the shanty. This so enraged him that he fired his gun
                     into the house, by which one of the Scotchman's friends was instantly killed.
                     Major Meigs had sent for us, for the purpose of detailing the Court Marshal for
                     the man's trial.
                  "Morgan was appointed President of the Court, and I was made Judge Advocate. We
                     at once proceeded to trial. After full deliberation and faithfully examining
                     the witnesses, we found the man guilty and sentenced him to be shot at 6 P. M.
                     The sentence was approved by Col. Arnold.
                  "The executing party were detailed from the company of Fairfax. At the
                     appointed hour, the man was taken to the place of execution under a strong
                     guard, when he confessed his guilt, but plead provocation. After consultation
                     with his officers, Arnold reprieved him, and he was sent back to the mouth of
                     the river for confinement, to await the orders of General Washington as to his
                     final disposal. This unpleasant affair cast quite a gloom through the camp.*
                     
                  
                     
                     *The soldier Cornish, we believe, was finally pardoned.
                  
                  "Sept. 24.—As from this place (Fort Western) our real difficulties begin, we
                     are now making preparations for our future comfort as far as possible. One of
                     the rifle companies and my own, have been supplied with axes as pioneers, to
                     cut down the trees and make a road from carrying place to carrying place. This
                     will be severe duty.
                  "Sept. 25.—Three companies of us embarked to-day, as the advance party, in
                     twenty batteaux, with forty days provisions. The latter consists entirely of
                     salt pork and flour. Whatever fresh provisions we get will have to be of our
                     own picking up. In a week's time, we are told by the inhabitants here, we shall
                     get into a country where moose are found, the meat of which animal
                     is said to be very fine. Morgan has hoisted on his batteau a pole, surmounted
                     by a bunch of bucks' tails, which he calls his 'Virginny Admiral's flag.' Our
                     way up the river to-day has been quite tedious. The river in places is very
                     rapid, and the shore rocky. Towards evening, Fairfax killed a couple of wild
                     ducks, and at night we pulled to the shore, at a signal from the 'Virginny
                     Admiral,' where we were to stop till morning.
                  "Morgan came to our mess for the purpose of showing us how to stew
                        duck, backwoods fashion, as he said, but I rather think
                     to get a taste of the wild feathered bipeds. Be that as it was, he made a
                     capital stew of the birds. After supper, he amused us with specimens of the war
                     whoop of the Western Indians, the other side of the Alleghanies. His voice is
                     stronger than that of any man I ever heard, and ringing as it did at night
                     along the banks of the Kennebec, till the echoes died away in the recesses of
                     the forest, the effect was startling He then gave us a Choctaw love song, as he
                     called it, so uncouth and grotesque, that it made my sides fairly ache with
                     laughter. Throwing himself upon the bank close by, with no covering but his
                     hunting shirt, he was soon in deep slumber. Fairfax and myself followed his
                     example, but kept a little nearer the camp fire.
                  "Sept. 26 to 28 —The route up the river for these three days has been pretty
                     much alike. The shores of the river appear to be covered more and more with
                     timber, and the different colored foliage give them, at times, a magnificent
                     appearance. Flocks of wild ducks have been numerous, and furnished us with good
                     shooting and food. Now and then a mess of fish were taken, so that we have not
                     troubled our salt pork over-much. Morgan makes it a general rule to mess with
                     us at every stopping place for the night. He is excellent company. Thus far our
                     detachment has been very healthy, none of the men being too ill to do duty. The
                     nights are growing more and more chilly, and a blanket at night is very
                     comfortable, I find.
                  "Sept. 29.—This morning, reached a place called Fort Halifax, consisting of a
                     couple of block houses with barracks enclosed in a picket. It lies on a neck of
                     land at the junction of the Kennebec and another river with a long Indian name.
                     Rested nearly all day, repairing our batteaux and letting the men get from
                     their baggage their thick extra clothing. Two hours before sundown, we crossed
                     the river, where was a carrying place.*
                      Had to take our baggage and batteaux over a hundred rods carriage way,
                     where we again embarked and proceeded five miles further, and then stopped for
                     the night. The scenery along the banks is much wilder than heretofore.
                        
                        *A carrying place in shallow rivers, is where the boats cannot pass, and
                           they have to be carried on drawn to deeper water.
                      Some of the trees are very large,
                     particularly the beach and pine.
                  "Sept. 30.—Did not advance but nine miles to-day, our passage growing more and
                     more difficult as we progressed. Just after we encamped, and were preparing our
                     suppers, we were somewhat surprised at the approach of two or three batteaux,
                     from one of which Col. Arnold landed. He joined our mess, and appeared much
                     pleased with his meal. He has the reputation of being a good
                     liver, and I should judge it was true, from the manner in which he
                     enjoyed himself. After supper, he relaxed his dignity a good deal, (which is,
                     at times, as oppressive as too much freedom,) called for a bottle of rum, if we
                     had any to spare, which Fairfax furnished from his stores. Arnold related to us
                     many of the adventures of his early life, in some of which I thought he did not
                     figure with any great credit. It was midnight before we went to sleep. Arnold
                     had a tent brought on shore, under which he slept.
                  "Oct. 1st.—Embarked early in the morning, leaving Col. Arnold behind. He did
                     not seem anxious to press forward, until the advance had cleared the way.
                  "There is something about him I do not like, and it seems hard to tell what.
                     Before we left, he requested Fairfax to loan him another bottle of liquor, on
                     the plea that his own stores had not yet arrived, although one of the batteaux
                     that came up with him is loaded entirely with his own stores.
                  "Our way grows more and more difficult. Small rapids, whirlpools and shallows
                     are continually before us, and make great labor for the men. At a place called
                     Sakegin Falls, the carrying-place is an eighth of a mile long, over which we
                     had to take our batteaux and baggage. This was a cause of great fatigue, labor
                     and interruption.
                  "During the night, it came on to rain very hard. But few tents had been brought
                     on shore, and some of the men got their clothes thoroughly soaked before they
                     woke up, so firm was their sleep after the fatigues of the day. Fortunately, I
                     had my tent pitched as soon as we landed, and Fairfax and myself, with as many
                     as the tent would cover, escaped most of the rain.
                  "Oct. 4.—Embarked, and at night reached a place called Norridgewolk. During the
                     day, one of the riflemen from our batteau shot a deer on the banks of the
                     river. We took the carcass on board, for the purpose of having a little fresh
                     meat for supper when we arrived at our encamping place. Unfortunately, about an
                     hour before we reached Norridgework, the batteau containing some of my private
                     stores upset, by which I lost my sugar and coffee, which cannot be replaced
                     now.
                  "Morgan consoled me at night, on hearing of my loss, by saying that tea and
                     sugar were always mixed with water before using. The venison steaks, broiled
                     over some hickory coals, were delicious, with some corn bread, baked by one of
                     the riflemen—Virginia fashion—in the ashes. We went early to bed, carefully
                     setting our guards, for we are now approaching a country, where some of the
                     roaming Indians, friendly to the British rule in Canada, may carry intelligence
                     of our approach.
                  "While here, a white woman exhibited to us her child, about a year old, being
                     the first white child born here. It was a fine-looking infant. Fairfax and
                     myself gave her a guinea, to give the child the name of Daniel Morgan, in
                     addition to its proper name, which she promised to do. Morgan, on hearing of
                     it, sent the child a beautiful otter skin cap, of his own.
                  "At Norridgewolk, we saw the ruins of an old Catholic church, and a priest's
                     grave, surmounted with a cross. This was a missionary station of some of the
                     early French Priests, before Canada became an English province. It must have
                     been also quite a seat of the aborigines, for we saw many of their cleared
                     fields around.
                  "Oct. 5.—The weather has grown quite cold, and woollen clothing is now very
                     comfortable to the wearer. About a dozen of our men were quite sick, and we
                     left them at Norridgewolk, to await the coming up of the second division. We
                     did not make much headway to day, not more than a couple of miles, in
                     consequence of the frequent carrying places that interrupted our advance. I
                     fear that more of our men will be taken down, if they are forced to endure such
                     continued labor.
                  "Oct. 6th.—Slowly progressing to-day, and with infinite labor. Lost some of our
                     provisions by the upsetting of the batteau. About noon, we reached the great
                     carrying place of Carratuneaus. It is a wild-looking spot, and, for the space
                     of forty rods, the river runs between immense rocks, and becomes quite narrow.
                     The carrying place is nearly a quarter of a mile in length. It was not until
                     the 8th, or two days, that we succeeded in passing it with all our baggage, and
                     making a path for the troops following us.
                  "Oct. 8th.—This day we made four miles, through a rapid current, and then
                     encamped to give the men a little rest. The river, in many places, was quite
                     shallow, and the channel blocked up by small islands, formed by the land that
                     had washed down against the rocks. They were covered with verdure, and a man
                     that wished to flee from the society of his fellow-men, could pick out no more
                     solitary places to reside upon.
                  "From the spot where we encamped, away to the north, were visible some lofty
                     mountains, that rose far into the sky. At sunset, they appeared magnificent,
                     and, like giants in the distance, seemed to bar our progress in that
                     direction.
                  "Oct. 9th.—Again embarked. The river runs, to-day, nearly in a north-west
                     direction, by compass. In one place, it passes between two high mountains,
                     covered with hemlock and red cedar. Signs having been seen of moose, near a
                     landing place, Morgan and Fairfax, with two or three riflemen, went on shore,
                     and, in the course of two hours, succeeded in killing three of them. These
                     animals are nearly as large as a good-sized ox. When we reached what is called
                     'the great carrying,' which is about twelve miles across, we encamped for the
                     night, distributing the fresh meat among the men, with a double allowance of
                     grog.
                  "At the officers' mess, we had a magnificent roasted haunch of the meat.
                     Morgan, no mean judge in such matters, declared it far superior to any venison
                     he ever tasted. We enjoyed ourselves finely at the meal, and had afterwards a
                     bowl of hot rum toddy, the first we have partaken of since we left camp.
                     Morgan, as usual, was full of fun, and the life of the company. We conversed
                     over our journey thus far, hoping, at the farthest, to partake our Christmas
                     dinner at Quebec. At midnight, went to bed.
                  "Oct. 10th.—Commenced crossing the great carrying place of twelve miles. Every
                     man seemed anxious to fulfil his own duty as far as he was capable. In the
                     course of our passage, we had to cross several ponds, where large quantities of
                     very fine trout were caught, enough to give a dinner to the whole of our
                     party.
                  "On reaching the shores of the third pond, this day, we were agreeably
                     surprised to find encamped, a detachment, which had been sent forward under
                     Lieutenant Steel. They had pushed forward to reconnoitre as far as the head of
                     the Chaudiere river, to see if the enemy had any parties in advance of us, but
                     they had found no signs of any one.
                  "We disembarked for the night at the last portage, and cooked a moose, which
                     had been killed during the day. The meat, with the trout which had been caught,
                     made an excellent supper for us. We felt in high spirits, and Morgan, who led
                     our command, according to orders, prepared to await here the arrival of the
                     other divisions of the army, and Colonel Arnold.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  "We needed some rest, and were glad that a few hours extra recruiting was
                     before us to recover from the labor exerted in crossing the great carrying
                     place. Small parties were sent out on the morning of the 11th to hunt moose,
                     and fish in the ponds for salmon trout.
                  "Morgan, Fairfax and myself, with Sergeant Ironsides, left camp on a short
                     excursion after moose. To avoid some swamps, we were compelled to take a
                     circuitous route that led us three or four miles below our camp, from the
                     direction in which we had originally marched from the river. On a point of land
                     about half a mile from us, we observed some five or six of the noble animals we
                     were in pursuit of. Separating, we moved slowly forward to surround them,
                     confident of getting a couple of them at least, when I heard, much to my
                     surprise, in the direction I was advancing, the loud baying of a hound.
                  "I rushed as speedily as possible in the direction of an opening, when I saw
                     three of the moose coming towards me at full speed, the sharp yelp of the dog
                     echoing immediately behind. The foremost of the animals was a noble buck, and I
                     threw myself into the thicket, raised my fusee, which was loaded with a ball
                     and three buckshots. As soon as the leading animal was within range, I fired. I
                     had taken deliberate aim at his head—and the shot was effectual, for, leaping
                     forward some twelve feet, he fell, and a noble dog, baying deeply, rushed past,
                     seized the dying animal by his throat, and turned him upon his back.
                  "A moment, and I was by his side. I passed my hunting-knife across the throat
                     of the gasping animal, and life ceased to exist. He was indeed a noble buck,
                     his antlers of immense size, and I felt delighted that it had fallen to my lot
                     to accomplish what, I had every reason to suppose, none of my comrades had
                     done, killing one of the moose.
                  "The hound, after noticing what I had done, laid himself down, panting, as if
                     the chase had not been, to him, an easy one. I could not account from whence he
                     had come, for I knew that in our detachment we had no dog of that breed.
                  "'Hillo! Wolf, where away, where abouts, speak, dog, speak,' shouted a voice at
                     no great distance.
                  "The hound raised himself, gave a clear, ringing reply, but glancing first at
                     the moose and then at me, seemed to hesitate as if doubtful whether the animal
                     was not as much his master's property as mine, and that it was his duty to
                     remain.
                  "My doubts were soon relieved, for, at the extremity of the path, leading out
                     of the woods, the hunter soon made his appearance, dressed in a duffel blanket
                     coat, his head surmounted with a rabbit-skin cap, who, as soon as he saw me,
                     exclaimed:
                  "'Well, well, Burnham, you are the winner, I see. Wolf started the game and you
                     shot him. I claim a quarter, my boy, for if the truth must be told, our mess is
                     starving.'
                  "As he got nearer, I discovered that the new comer was my friend, Captain
                        Dearborn,*
                      of the New Hampshire troops—a brave and gallant soldier, belonging to
                     the second division, which we supposed to be some two or three days behind
                     us."
                        
                        *Captain Dearborn rose to the rank of Lt. Colonel in the revolutionary
                           army. He was Secretary of War under President Jefferson, Major General in
                           the U. S. army on the Canada frontier during the last war, and,
                           afterwards, minister to Portugal. He died in 1829.
                     
                  "'Dearborn, you shall take it all,' was my instant reply. I knew that we
                     ourselves would have been much in want had it not have been for the supplies
                     furnished by our hunters, and the divisions behind us had less chance for
                     support in following upon our trail.
                  "'No, no, Burnham, I shan't do that. We'll compromise half—say half. By
                     heavens, 'tis a noble moose; three inches of fat at least on the brisket. Ha!
                     who have we here, scrambling through the bushes? Morgan, as I'm a sinner.'
                  "'Yes, Dearborn, my lad, here I am; but how is this? I didn't expect to see you
                     yet awhile. Is the division so near us?'
                  "'Not exactly the division, Major; but my company and that of Goodrich's.
                     Arnold will be along shortly—that is, by to-morrow, I think. Our companies are
                     encamped just behind the point yonder. We saw a few moose, and myself and two or three others started out
                     for a shot, in hopes to get a little fresh meat, for our salt pork is getting
                     short as well as tiresome.'
                  "'Good; but who killed this moose? Why, his antlers will shame anything I ever
                     saw on the Blue Mountains.'
                  "'Ask Burnham, Major; I believe he is the fortunate man. But I claim half, for
                     Wolf—that's him, the hound smelling about your heels—put the animals on the
                     trot.'
                  "I explained the circumstances, and acknowledged that to Wolf was I indebted
                     for my shot.
                  "'Not another word,' said Morgan; 'give me a lift—we'll hang the fellow on this
                     fir-tree, beyond the reach of smaller vermin. Come with us to camp, Dearborn.
                     I'll send down some of my men to pilot up the two companies—'tis but an hour's
                     march, and we'll mess together.'
                  "With our joint labors, we hoisted the bull moose on a limb of the fir-tree,
                     beyond the reach of the wolves, whose scent in this region is wonderfully
                     sagacious, and took our way to camp. At the distance of half a mile, we found
                     Fairfax and Sergeant Ironsides, who, to our agreeable surprise, had succeeded
                     in killing another of the moose, which furnished an additional supply of fresh
                     meat, enough to give the companies, when united, a noble meal.
                  "We reached camp in the course of an hour, and despatched a dozen men, with the
                     Sergeant, to bring in the game, whilst another party proceeded to pilot up
                     Captain Dearborn's and Goodrich's companies to the place where we held our
                     quarters. Before dark, we had the satisfaction of seeing both things
                     accomplished. The two moose were speedily dressed, and divided up for the
                     different messes, and never did the same number of officers and men, in the
                     depths of a wild forest, far removed from the homes of civilization, partake of
                     a meal with better appetites.
                  "At our mess, Dearborn brought two or three of his own officers, by request. He
                     placed particularly under my charge a young volunteer of the name of Burr,*
                      whose age was about nineteen, a handsome, black-eyed little fellow, of
                     much intelligence and soldierly sagacity. In the course of conversation, he
                     told me that he was of Connecticut origin, although a native of New Jersey—he
                     being the son of the late President Burr, of Princeton College, from which
                     institution he had recently graduated.
                        
                        *Afterwards the celebrated Colonel Burr, Vice President of the United
                           States, who killed Hamilton in the duel at Hoboken, in 1804. He had run
                           away from his guardians to take part in Arnold's expedition. He died in
                           1836.
                     
                  "I gave him an invitation to take a share of mine and Fairfax's tent, as long
                     as we remained together, which he accepted. His frame was as slight as a
                     girl's, and I was surprised when he told me that the fatigues of the march had
                     benefitted rather than injured him. He was quite abstemious at our meal, and
                     would not taste of anything in the way of liquids but a single glass of wine,
                     of which I had half-a-dozen bottles in my stores.
                  "We had indeed a very pleasant time at our meal around the camp-fire, and,
                     leaving the spot for a little while, to note the appearance of the camp, Burr
                     and myself stood on the banks of the pond, which glistened with gems from the
                     clear star-light, whilst here and there, through the vistas of the wood,
                     streamed the broad glare of the camp-fires of the soldiers along the
                     banks."
                  In this part of the journal is a brief narrative of a conversation with young
                     Burr. The colloquy we arrange, formed upon the
                        reflections made in the journal.
                  "It is a beautiful night, Captain Burnham," said Burr, "and, in gazing around,
                     the wildness of the scene, the stillness of the hour, the remote distance we
                     are from the homes of civilized men, the perils of our march—all conduce to
                     make me love the profession of the soldier, which I have chosen."
                  "It is truly a beautiful night, and beautiful is the scene before us. Like
                     yourself, I feel all the pride of a soldier's life, but neither of us can tell
                     how long we shall love it as now. Sickness, wounds, news from home, all tend to
                     depress the seeming pleasure of military glory."
                  "But there is AMBITION!" instantly replied the youth, "ambition; that is what
                     urges me on, what urges us all to ruin, fame, or destruction.
                        You talk of home, I have neither father or mother to recall
                     me,—I am parentless,—alone!"*
                      His eye flashed vividly between tears and excitement as he spoke. "My
                      parents are fame and ambition, I have nothing else to look for, or seek."
                  
                     
                     *Burr was left an orphan at the early age of five. Did not
                        this dispensation have an effect upon his after career?
                  
                  "Come, come, Burr," said Burnham, "let us go back to the mess supper—do not
                     give way to such wild thoughts, you are becoming excited."
                  "Was I—true, true," and in a moment his features had recovered their usual
                     girlish resemblance, though his singular black eye shone with the same
                     thrilling lustre. It was a remarkable trait of Burr, that even in early life,
                     if he displayed any movement of excitability, the instant that he observed it
                     was noticed, he relaxed his features to their usual coldness.
                  On reaching the camp, they found the whole company of officers still at the
                     mess table, and their absence had not been noticed, except by Fairfax, who
                     rose, whispering to Burnham:
                  "My dear fellow, you and your companion have come back in the nick of time.
                     Morgan has just sent for Sergeant Ironsides to give us an account of Braddock's
                     defeat. You know the Major himself has got the scar of a shot through his face,
                     won in that fight, and the story of the Sergeant will be one of amusement as
                     well as of instruction. You have not been missed, fortunately, so drag up that
                     camp stool and log, and take the seats between you."
                  Burnham and his companion, Burr, as requested, seated themselves by the rude
                     mess table, formed of cedar limbs and boughs, which had been arranged in front
                     of the officers' tent. On this table were the remains of the moose and trout
                     feast, interspersed here and there with a tin cup of toddy from a huge camp
                     kettle over the fire.
                  "Come, Ironsides, you have had two tastes at the flip, as our Yankee friends
                     call it, and a cheering liquor it is, step up now, my lad, and give us the
                     story of BRADDOCK'S defeat. This was said by Morgan, at the head of the
                     table.
                  The Sergeant advanced, looked around, threw off his cap, cleared his throat,
                     and thus commenced:
                  SERGEANT IRONSIDES' STORY OF BRADDOCK'S DEFEAT.
                  "Well, Major Morgan, as you and the officers," he touched his bare head, "want
                     to hear somethin' about that ere fight of Braddock's, I'll tell ye, in a plain
                     forrard kind o' style, that's not so great as you've read on, but then it's all
                     true. Let me see, 'twas in '55, ar'ly in March, that I 'listed in Captain Bob
                     Perrony's rangers, to go and fight the Frenchers at Fort Du Keen.*
                      The reg'lars under Braddock was in barracks at Alexandria, atween two
                      and three regiments on 'em.
                         
                         *Fort Du Queene, now in the vicinity of Pittsburgh, Pa.
                      
                  "Let me see—I'm about forty now, so I was a fresh, bold fellow then, not mor'n
                     nineteen, and I'd been on one or two Injin skrimmages over the Blue Mountains,
                     and knew how to handle a rifle as well as the best. Captain Bob Perrony kept
                     drillin' on us, and drillin' on us, to fight Injins and reg'lar fashion alike,
                     though we didn't agree in the last way none too much.
                  "It was arly in June when he marched us to Mill's Creek, where we found Capen
                     Poulson's and another company of Virginny rangers, and the British reg'lars all
                     in fightin' order. But, Lord! wan't the reg'lars a pretty set to fight the
                     Injins! I thought so then, and I said so to our Orderly, and he told Capt'n
                     Bob. But the answer I got, and it come pretty straight:—'Tell Ironsides to keep
                     his mouth shut, or he'll git fifty lashes—them's gineral orders!'"
                  The Sergeant paused for a moment, and looked round. Before he commenced again,
                     his eye rested on Morgan, with an odd, comical glance, which the latter
                     returned.
                  "Go on, Sergeant—never mind about my lashes," said Morgan; "I
                     haven't forgot my share, and they shall be redeemed in time."
                  "Well, sirs," continued the Sergeant, "I thought the Ginral must be a mighty
                     stiff sort of a fellow, to order fifty lashes to any ranger that spoke a little
                     sort of advice, so I fixed down this Ginral Braddock to be nothin' at all to
                     fight Injins, and, God knows, it turned out so. Wasn't I glad, gentlemen, and I
                     say so now, here in the Kennebec country, to you, upon seein' Major Washington
                     ride into camp. Oh, but he was the handsomest man I ever seed git on a horse,
                     and hadn't I been with him afore, and isn't he a great man?"
                  Here the Sergeant stopped, as if waiting for an answer in regard to his
                     question. Burnham did not give him a long chance to wait, for he rose, handed
                     the Sergeant a camp cup, and said:—
                  "The health of our illustrious WASHINGTON!"
                  In the depths of the forest, on the Kennebec, in the woods of Maine, far beyond
                     the hearing of foes, rose one wide shout—
                  "THE HEALTH OF WASHINGTON!"
                  It echoed through the woods, and it was heard in camp—it startled the birds
                     from their slumbers, and the wild beasts from their lairs—from the head waters
                     of the Kennebec arose the sound, awoke for the first time by that simple word
                     of the Virginia Sergeant: WASHINGTON! and through our whole land will it ring
                     forever.
                  "Now, gentlemen," said the Sergeant, in continuance, "it was the 12th of June,
                     '55—I remember the day well—when we left Will's Creek, reg'lars and all, on our
                     march for Fort Du Keen. There was atween two and three regiments of
                     reg'lars—reg'lars to fight Injins, and we had at least two hundred baggage
                     wagons behind, to carry stores for King George's men. I can't say but the
                     reg'lars looked pretty, all in scarlet.
                  "Some on 'em had been in a fight they called Culloden, that happened in '45,
                     about the Stewarts bein' king, and they bragged how they butchered the
                     Scotchmen then, but I can tell you, if they didn't do better there than they
                     did with the French and Injins arter, they must ha' got Culloden vict'ry quick,
                     but possums and toads! what did they know about fightin' Injins?—nothin' at
                     all.
                  "Well, now, it was on that same 12th of June, in '55, a little more'n twenty
                     years ago, when all tents was struck, that Braddock took up his line o' march
                     for Fort Du Keen. I think we started in three brigades, as it was fixed reg'lar
                     fashion, Sir Peter Halket leadin' our'n, and Colonel Gage (the Gineral that's
                     now raisin' such a riot in Boston) being the second arter Sir Peter, and
                     Colonel Burton following arter him, with another Colonel named Dunbar, a
                     Scotchman, as the resarve An't I right, Major Morgan?"
                  "Right as the sun, Sergeant; I was in the rear with Dunbar, the scoundrel. He
                     wouldn't let us wagoners form a company of our own, d—n him."
                  "I was right glad," continued the Sergeant, "to hear that Gineral Braddock had
                     chosen Major Washington to be one of his aids, for he knew something about
                     Injin bush-fightin', and the way of the critters. He insisted on flankers bein'
                     kept out from the rangers, so as to scour the woods, and stir up the ambushes,
                     if there happened to be any. Well, we marched on for a couple of weeks, till we
                     reached the Yohogany Crossin', where Washington was taken with a fever, so as
                     not to be able to ride, and, though he was carried some way in one of the
                     wagons, the surgeons and doctors said he wanted rest and quietness, and must be
                     left behind, or his life could not be saved. So he was left behind with Dr.
                        Craik,*
                        the doctor of the rangers.
                  
                     
                     *Dr. Craik was the medical attendant of Washington twenty years after, in
                        fact, throughout the revolution. He was at his bedside when he died at
                        Mount Vernon, in 1799.
                  
                  
                  "After this, the flankers were not sent out as before, and we marched on
                     carelessly, the reg'lars in advance, contrary to the advice of the officers of
                     the rangers, but Braddock wouldn't listen at all to 'Virginny buckskins,' as he
                     called our officers and men, not he, and I reckon he thought somethin' on't
                     when he was dying, with a couple of bullets through his body, a few days
                     arter.
                  "On the night of the 7th of July, 1775, when we rangers were encamped within a
                     few miles of Fort Du Keen, we was right glad to see Major Washington ride up to
                     us, but he looked mighty thin and weak. I was on duty before Cap'n Perrony's
                     tent when he went in, and I heard all that he said.
                  "'Perrony,' said Washington, 'I don't like the way things are goin' on. Here we
                     are, within a few hours' march of the enemy, encamped, and not a single
                     scouting party out to ascertain whether there's any ambushes before us, for the
                     Frenchmen must know that we are on the way.'
                  "'Major Washington, you cannot tell how glad I am to see you, though you look
                     so feeble. You, bein' one of the Gineral's aids, have some influence with him.
                     Do, for God's sake, try and beat a little reason into him, or we shall be
                     beaten instead, as sure as the sun rises.'
                  "Then Washington said, 'It's of no use, Perrony—I have just come from his tent,
                     and he appears determined to have his way. He says his regulars will drive
                     every Indian out of the country. The man is stark mad.'
                  "So they talked away for some time, and Washington and Perrony agreed that, if
                     the army got ambushed, the Virginnys should push forward, orders or no orders,
                     and fight the Injins their fashion; and, after about an hour, Washington went
                     away, and the Capt'n called me into his tent.
                  "'Ironsides,' said he, 'we are goin' to have a fight to-morrow.'
                  "'Yes, Capt'n,' said I, 'I think we shall; and, if I know anything, them
                     reg'lars 'll run afore the Injins like sheep when the wolf's behind. Now, if it
                     was an open plain, they might fight well enough, but they can't do it bush
                     fashion.'
                  "'I think as you do, Ironsides, so it becomes our duty to fight the better, for
                     the Virginians will have to save what there may be left of the regulars
                     to-morrow. If I should be killed or mortally wounded, Ironsides, I wish you to
                     take my watch to my mother at Winchester. You were born within a stone's throw
                     of the old lady's house, and know her well; for that reason I wish you to look
                     to this business for me.'
                  "'But suppose I should be killed too, Capt'n,' said I.
                  "'Then let fate take its course,' was his answer.
                  "The next morning after breakfast, on the long-to-be-remembered 8th of July,
                     under a hot sun that streamed down through the forest, the army commenced its
                     march, the reg'lars, with here and there a flanker, in advance. Every officer
                     and man of the rangers kept their ears and eyes open, for they knew that
                     trouble was coming. Braddock with his aids, excepting Washington, were resting
                     by a spring as our company marched by, just before noon, drinking wine, and
                     taking a lunch of cold ham and biscuit.
                  "Thinks I, you'll drink to another tune afore long, and it turned out a fact.
                     The advanced corps were passing through a ravine, a wild-looking place, when
                     crack, crack, went the Injin rifles, and such a yell rose, that some of the
                     reg'lars dropped their muskets and ran to the rear so fast you couldn't see
                     their heels for the leaves they kicked up.
                  "Crack, crack, yell, yell, yell, all around us. We had gone right into the jaws
                     of Injins and Frenchers, and the whole army, except the Virginians, was in such
                     a mixed up quandary, that you couldn't tell who was who. Braddock come riding
                     up, for he was a brave man, and commenced giving his orders to form into
                     platoons and squads, and all that sort of thing, just as if he was goin' to
                     find an enemy to charge bagonets on in the middle of a thick wood!
                  "'Push on, Virginians,' cried Washington, and we did push right into the woods,
                     bush fashion, and gave the Injins a taste of their own way of fightin' behind
                     trees and rocks. The poor reg'lars fired or run, just as they thought best.
                  "In a short time, Capt. Perrony fell, mortally wounded, and I carried him on my
                     back down into the road, where the attack was not so severe, and placed him
                     under charge of a body of the reg'lars that surrounded Braddock. In an hour's
                     time, every officer of our company was killed, and myself and one corporal were
                     the highest in rank left. Captain Poulson fared little better, for he had only
                     one officer left. Major Washington was almost everywhere at the same time, now
                     with us, now carrying orders from Braddock to the rear, cheering and doing all
                     that he could to save the army. All Braddock's aids had been killed; Sir Peter
                     Halket was wounded and carried to the rear, and about three hours after the
                     fight commenced, General Braddock got two balls through his body, and this was
                     the final signal for the reg'lars to retreat as quick as possible, or rather
                     run. Washington gave us orders to bring up the rear, which Captain Poulson did,
                     having only thirty men left, out of the three companies of rangers which went
                     into action.
                  "As we went on, retreatin' and fightin', we came to the spot where, in a
                     tumbril, Major Washington and Captain Stewart, of the British guards, had
                     placed General Braddock, who was shot mortally, and he groaned terribly. We
                     stopped long enough to give the Injins a check, while the tumbril was carried
                     off in a great hurry to Dunbar's entrenched camp. The whole road was strewed
                     with arms, baggage, and dead and wounded soldiers. It was well the Injins
                     stopped to pick up the plunder, or half the reg'lars wouldn't have got away
                     that did, you know that well enough, Major Morgan.
                  "General Braddock died at Dunbar's camp, and was buried by the road side, and
                     the next day we had orders to retreat as fast as possible, by Dunbar's orders.
                     Major Washington did all that he could to prevent the retreat, offering to
                     speed to Winchestertown, as quick as possible, and raise a provincial regiment,
                     but it wasn't of any use. Dunbar would run away.
                  "There, gentlemen," said the sergeant, "I've told you all I know about the
                     battle of the Monongahela, and Braddock's defeat, and, if you please, I'll take
                     a glass of rum before I go on duty, sirs."
                  The journal of Burnham then goes on to give an account of Morgan's narration of
                     the battle, or as much of it as he saw. It appears that Morgan was with the
                     wagon train, a mile or more in the rear, when the action commenced. That he
                     hurried on as rapidly as possible with his rifle, though contrary to orders,
                     and took part in the battle. While on the retreat, he was ordered to carry Sir
                     Peter Halket, who was wounded, to his wagon, and it was while thus engaged he
                     received a buck shot through his cheek and nose, which wound did not 'heal up'
                     for a year afterwards. He bore testimony to the singular courage of Washington
                     on this occasion. No officer on the field displayed more skill and bravery. He
                     had two horses shot under him, four balls through different parts of his dress,
                     yet escaped without a wound.
                  We now resume from the journal.
                  "Oct. 11th, 1775.—Col. Arnold reached us yesterday, and sent back Major Meigs,
                     with orders to Col. Enos, who, with the fourth division of musket-men, had
                     reached the great carrying-place. The orders were to erect a block-house on the
                     banks of the river.
                  "Our division, under Morgan, with Captains Dearborn and Ward's companies, busy
                     in carrying our baggage over the swamp, to strike the Dead River, a branch of
                     the Kennebec. It was very cold work, and the weather exceedingly windy.
                  "Oct. 13th, 14th, 15th.—Toil and toil. Succeeded in reaching the Dead River,
                     after a great deal of labor, and wetting much of our baggage. Our provisions
                     are getting short, and to day (the 15th,) orders were given that the daily
                     allowance be reduced to half a pound of flour, and half a pound of pork, per
                     man. Our brave fellows bear it without flinching, though it is not half enough
                     food.
                  "Oct. 16th.—Succeeded in killing a couple of moose, which came very
                     appropriately at this time. The meat was divided equitably among the different
                     messes, officers and men share alike. Arnold joined us in the afternoon with
                     Col. Green and part of his division. The river on which we now embarked, was a
                     pretty stream, and we sailed twenty miles with little labor and much comfort to
                     the men. The scenery is rather pretty, the banks thinly timbered, and in some
                     places the grass along the margin is three feet high.
                  'Thus far we have got along very well, with the exception of a little pushing
                     for provisions, now and then. In our division, we have not lost a man, though
                     we have some ten or more on the sick list. We are yet two weeks journey from
                     any settlement in Canada, and a dreary route is before us. A soldier's life has
                     its trials as well as pleasures.
                  "Oct. 17th.—Rained very hard until afternoon, the wind cold and sleety. We then
                     received orders to push forward for the Chaudiere river with all haste, and
                     when there, to halt, and wait for the rear divisions. We were also furnished
                     with an extra supply of powder to make into cartridges for the musket men in
                     our encampment, at the Chaudiere. We pushed on with all haste, when we received
                     the orders. The river now begins to be filled with little falls, so that the
                     portages are more frequent. Our men, owing to the scanty supply of provisions,
                     are not as able to bear up under fatigue as before, and many are giving out.
                     Fairfax has been quite sick for two days past, with a burning fever. The poor
                     fellow was a little delirious this morning, when placed on a litter to be taken
                     over a carrying-place, and raved of Virginia and home! He is a long way from
                     his native mountains.
                  "Oct. 18, 19, 20.—We are still advancing, but our little body of men look
                     gloomy. We have found no game for the last three days, and our provisions grow
                     less and less, with a scanty ten days' supply on hand. Fairfax, thank God, has
                     so far recovered as to march a short distance, but we have nearly thirty on the
                     sick list, some of whom are unable to help themselves. They are treated with
                     all the attention that we are able to give them. One poor fellow, of Dearborn's
                     company, died this morning. We buried him on a knoll that rose from a little
                     island in the centre of the stream, two or three fir trees waving above him,
                     like solitary sentinels keeping watch over his lonely grave. Two weeks before,
                     Captain Dearborn told me he was one of the best and most iron-nerved of his
                     men, full of life and humor—now he rested cold and stiff, never again to awake
                     at the sound of reveille, let it beat as it
                     might along the shores of the Dead River, where he lies.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  THE JOURNAL CONTINUED.
                  "Oct. 21st, 22d, 23d.—For the last three days I have felt little inclination to
                     write up my journal. We have made but little advance, owing to the weakness of
                     the men from hunger, and an extraordinary rise in the river. We hardly know how
                     to account for it. It rose in one night almost eight feet, driving all the men,
                     who had encamped on shore, from their tents, and wrecking some of our batteaux.
                     For the last two days, my only food has been a couple of biscuit, with a few
                     mouthfuls of fish, of which about a dozen, the smallest kind of perch, were
                     caught by one or two men of my company. Some of the companies in advance are in
                     a still worse plight. More than a week's journey is still before us, and our
                     sick-list is continually on the increase.
                  "Afternoon.—A council has been held, and it is decided that the
                     sick, with a small guard, shall return back to Norridgewolk, and a chosen
                     company of sixty men push on rapidly, in advance, to Chaudiere River.
                  "The object of sending on the company is to collect provisions, as rapidly as
                     possible, on the Chaudiere, for the
                     relief of our starving mon. Morgan and Fairfax are detailed on this duty, and
                     started about an hour before sunset, cheered by all. They are to wait on the
                     Chaudiere, with whatever provisions they may obtain, until our arrival.
                  "Oct. 24th.—Advanced up the river to-day some five or six miles. We are now
                     nearing the head-waters of the Dead River, from which we cross the heights, to
                     the Chaudiere. The carrying-places grow quite numerous, but we shall soon have
                     to leave our batteaux and canoes behind, and continue our march by land.
                     To-day, we have passed over many ponds, some of them miles in width. The
                     frequent carrying-places have fatigued our men so much, that several of them
                     gave out from exhaustion and hunger, and had to be taken across to the water on
                     litters, and placed in the canoes. Oh! hunger, I knew not your power
                     before!
                  "Oct. 25th, 26th.—We are now marching through the woods, having left our boats
                     and batteaux behind, expecting to cross the heights and reach the Chaudiere,
                     which lies the other side. Our rations are but half a biscuit a day, our salt
                     pork having long since been exhausted. I was much amused at seeing three of our
                     men chasing a large owl, his wing having been broken by a club, which one of
                     them threw at him. They at length succeeded in catching him, nearly up to their
                     middles in a swamp, and he was divided with as much accuracy as if he had been
                     gold. Any kind of flesh or fowl seems to give a relish to the dry biscuit. It
                     is fortunate we have water so plenty around us. I was much touched this
                     afternoon. While lagging in the rear of my company, to hurry on the loiterers,
                     I was overtaken by one of Captain Goodrich's men, who had been, a day or two
                     before, quite weak and sick, and for whom I had made some broth, and given him
                     several little necessaries, which I had carefully retained, in case of my own
                     or others' sickness.
                  "'Captain Burnham,' he said, in a low voice, looking cautiously around, 'stop a
                     moment, if you please.'
                  "'I am glad to see you so much better, Robert,' I said; 'what is it you want of
                     me?'
                  "The honest fellow drew from his haversack, very carefully, a large Canada
                     rabbit, saying:—'Captain, I killed that fellow a few minutes ago, in the bushes
                     yonder. None of my comrades saw me, or there would be little chance of its
                     being now in my possession. You were very kind to me when I was sick, and I am
                     getting stout and hearty again. If you will take the rabbit for your mess
                     to-night, I shall feel very glad.'
                  "I must own, the sight of the animal excited my appetite in no small degree,
                     and I hung for a moment between doubt and acceptance—the latter, however,
                     prevailed in a kind of compromise, and I requested Robert to bring the rabbit
                     to the mess when we halted for the night. This he faithfully performed, and a
                     party of twelve of us enjoyed a kettle of broth that night, richer than any
                     meal a king ever enjoyed in his palace. Hunger gives a keen relish to a man's
                     food.
                  "Oct. 27th, 28th.—Laus Deo! We have crossed
                     the ridge of heights, and the banks of the Chaudiere are before us, whose
                     stream empties into the St. Lawrence. In a few days more we shall have plenty
                     of provisions, for we shall then reach the first settlement. The question
                     arises, how are we to support ourselves (there being near upon five hundred of
                     us) until that time? There appears to be the greatest scarcity of game of any
                     kind in this part of the country. Major Meigs, this day, distributed among the
                     different commanders a small amount in specie, for the use of the troops, as
                     to-morrow each company officer assumes command of his men, and advances as
                     rapidly as possible, by land, along the shores of the Chaudiere for Quebec. At
                     sundown, on the 28th, I formed my company, and made a short address to them,
                     urging them to keep up their spirits, and not to grumble at privations, for, in
                     a few days, we should be in a region of plenty. They gave three cheers on being
                     dismissed.
                  "Oct. 29th, 30th.—These two days, marching along the banks of the Chaudiere.
                     The weather has proved quite fine and warm for the season, which is very
                     providential. The river grows wider, but, in many places, appears to be
                     shallow, though rapid. We have passed several canoes lying among the rapids,
                     split in two, and took them to be some of Morgan's boats, which was confirmed
                     on finding the body of one of his men floating near the shore, recognizing him
                     by his rifle-shirt. I directed the body to be decently buried.
                  "In crossing the woods, we came upon a body of men belonging to Dearborn's
                     company. They were cooking a favorite dog belonging to that officer, which he
                     had given them to kill. I must here say a word about 'Jack,' he was a noble
                     Newfoundland animal, the favorite among officers and men, and had continued the
                     march with us from Cambridge, grumbling less under 'short commons' than most of
                     his two-legged comrades. Great must have been the/privation of the soldiers to
                     kill him.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *This eating Capt. Dearborn's dog is a fact. So short were provisions,
                        that the men absolutely pounded up his bones to make soup of!
                  
                  "Nov. 1, 2, 3.—Thanks to heaven! The morning of this day, the 3d, we met a
                     small party of Morgan's men driving towards us a dozen bullocks and sheep,
                     bringing also a supply of flour and bread. Orders were at once given for the
                     companies to break and help themselves, and in five minutes, such a
                     slaughtering, butchering, building of fires, boiling, roasting and stewing,
                     among the same number of men, was never before seen. As for myself, I breathed
                     an inward prayer to Him who had carried us thus far in safety,
                     over and through the perilous wilds, mountains, and rivers that had obstructed
                     our march.
                  "I had not tasted a morsel of food for twelve hours, when my faithful drummer
                     boy brought me a noble beef steak, which he had just cooked, together with some
                     warm flour-bread baked in the ashes. I made him sit down by me, and we
                     devoured, rather than ate our meal. I paid dear enough for it an hour
                     afterwards, for my stomach had become so weak with long fasting that I was
                     seized with vomiting and retching most violently, and I did not get over it for
                     a day or two.
                  Nov. 4th.—Took up our line of march early this morning, the men in fine
                     spirits. Near noon we reached the house of a French habitan, himself, wife and children standing at the door to
                     receive us; and for the first time, in over thirty days, we beheld a human
                     habitation, and the faces of others beside our own. We were most cordially
                     received; milk, butter, fowls, game, and vegetables of various kinds,
                     sufficient to supply us all, were placed before us, with the utmost
                     hospitality.
                  "'Eat away, you poor devil, you!' exclaimed a sonorous, good-natured voice,
                     which I could not mistake, and the next instant my right hand was grasped, with
                     the power of a vice, by Morgan, and the left was seized by Fairfax, who had
                     approached behind me. It was, indeed, a joyous meeting, on all sides. Morgan
                     had faithfully performed the duty upon which he was sent forward, having
                     accumulated quite a supply of provisions, and a jovial evening completed this,
                     to us, memorable day.
                  Nov. 5—This day, with Arnold, our division commenced the march for Quebec. The
                     country through which we marched this day is called St. Mary's Parish. It is
                     thinly settled by a French population, speaking a mixed English and French
                     language. They treat us all very kindly, and with much hospitality, as we
                     advance. Everything appears as favorable, thus far, as we expected from the
                     Canadians.
                  "Nov. 8th. Point Levi, opposite Quebec.—I now write up my journal for the last
                     three days. We reached this place last night, and, for the first time, I beheld
                     the walls of Quebec. It happened that I led the advance of our troops, with a
                     dozen men, eager to be the first to get a sight of that famous city, where
                     Wolfe fell, sixteen years ago, dying on the field of glory, with his brave
                     opponent, Montcalm. The sun was just setting over the spires of the city, which
                     glistened brightly on rampart and house-top.
                  "Pressing forward, I observed a barge about leaving the Point in haste, but my
                     men were too quick for the whole to get into the boat, and we captured a young
                     naval officer, with several of his men. He surrendered himself to me for
                     protection. He gave me his name, and proved to be a Midshipman McKenzie,
                     belonging to the Hunter sloop-of-war, a vessel lying opposite, in the St.
                     Lawrence. I told him that he had nothing to fear, and despatched him, under a
                     small guard, to Col. Arnold, then approaching. During the rest of the afternoon
                     and night, we were kept busy in seizing whatever public property, arms and
                     stores we could find, and took, also, a few prisoners of war belonging to the
                     garrison in Quebec, that had not a chance to escape in time. I am convinced,
                     from the feeling of the inhabitants, that, had our march been so arranged that
                     we could have started a month sooner, and reached here a month earlier, we
                     should be in Quebec now. As it is, we have a struggle before us, and hope for
                     the best.
                  "Nov. 14th.—Heights of Abraham, before Quebec. Here we are at
                     length. At about 9 o'clock last night, we commenced embarking our men in
                     canoes, amounting to over five hundred, from Point Levi, and, notwithstanding
                     that two men-of-war were in the river to oppose us, (the Lizard, frigate, and
                     the Hunter, sloop-of-war,) we succeeded in landing the whole at Wolfe's Cove, the same place that that General landed the night before his
                     famous victory over the French. We speedily reached the Heights of Abraham, and
                     took possession of a fine building, formerly the residence of General Murray,
                     which, together with some houses near by, make excellent barracks for our
                     troops.
                  "This morning, we arranged our picket-guards, and placed our sentries to cut
                     off all communications between the city and country. Owing to some carelessness
                     of the officer of the guard, our advanced sentry was cut off, and, although we
                     made pursuit, the enemy succeeded in carrying him into Quebec.
                  "Col. Arnold gave orders to parade the whole command on the heights in full
                     view of the enemy, which was done, and we gave three huzzas for Congress, some
                     of the men shouting to the enemy, who lined the ramparts, to come out. They
                     contented themselves with firing a few six-pounders at us, without doing any
                     damage, and we marched back to camp. In the course of the afternoon, the enemy
                     set fire to a few houses in the suburbs, under cover of their batteries.
                     Towards evening, Col. Arnold sent a flag of truce in the direction of the town,
                     with a demand for the surrender of Quebec and garrison in the name of the
                     United Colonies. The flag was fired upon by the garrison and not permitted to
                     enter, which, being contrary to the rules of war, has exasperated our men much.
                     A deserter, who came to us from the city a day or two since, states that Col.
                     McLean, with a regiment of royal Canadians, reached Quebec from Sorel, two or
                     three days before we crossed from Point Levi, and that the garrison, including
                     a company of regulars, with the marines, sailors, and militia, amount to 1200.
                     If this be true, we shall have to wait till reinforced by Montgomery.
                  "Nov. 15th, 16th, 17th.—Camp on the Heights of Abraham. On the morning of the
                     15th, Col. Arnold directed another flag of truce to go into Quebec, but it was
                     fired upon as before. An express has been sent to General Montgomery, who is
                     besieging Montreal. This morning, (the 16th,) there is a report brought in by a
                     deserter, that Montreal has surrendered, and that Montgomery is marching to our
                     aid. God grant it may be true! This afternoon, the brave Sergeant Ironsides, of
                     the rifles, a veteran of Braddock's campaign, who had related to us on the
                     march the account of that General's defeat, received a wound, which, we fear,
                     will prove mortal. He was relieving guard, when a cannon shot from the ramparts
                     struck him in the leg, shattering the bone so much, that the leg was amputated.
                     He bears his sufferings nobly, and does not regret in the least the cause which
                     has thus deprived him of a limb, perhaps of life.
                  "Poor Ironsides died this morning, (the 17th,) at my quarters, retaining his
                     senses to the last moment, and
                     expressing the utmost devotion to his country. Morgan and Fairfax were with
                     him, and every attention that could be given the brave man was freely bestowed.
                     He is the first victim to the shot of the enemy since we landed, and, when we
                     buried him in the trenches opposite the city, there was many a comrade that
                     vowed to avenge his death the first opportunity.
                  "Had the division of Col. Enos*
                      not abandoned us on our march to the Dead River, we should have had
                     enough men to have taken Quebec the day we landed. Shame on the cowardly
                     fellow, say I. At any rate, we must now make the most with what troops we have
                     till Montgomery arrives.
                  
                     
                     *Colonel Enos, who commanded a detachment of about one-third of the troops
                        of Arnold, had orders to send back the sick, with such others of his men
                        from the Dead river as had not provisions to continue the march. He
                        returned to Cambridge with the whole of his command, thus
                        depriving Arnold of a large portion of his force. He was tried by court
                        martial and acquitted of desertion, but he lost caste in the army, and he soon after resigned. If Enos had
                        marched on, Quebec would have been taken.
                  
                  "I received a message from Col. Arnold, requesting my immediate attendance at
                     his quarters. On going thither I found an Indian, who, the Colonel told me, had
                     come out of the city the night before secretly, with a note addressed to me, or
                     to Col. Arnold if I was not in the expedition. He had broken it open, but
                     although the purport was important, he knew not what reliance to place upon it.
                     On handing it to me, I saw, at a glance, the bold hand of Ki, plain, though not
                     written with scholarly precision. It read thus:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "'A friend in Quebec sends this to Col. Arnold. If Capt. Burnham,
                                 of the Connecticut line, is in camp, he will know it is from a
                                 friend on seeing the hand-writing. The force now here amounts in
                                 all to fifteen hundred men. I know what your's is. Do not make any
                                 attempt now, but retire to Point aux Tremble, seven leagues down
                                 the St. Lawrence. You had better do this at once. You
                                 will hear from me again.
                              
                                 "'BUNKER HILL.'
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "'Why, Col. Arnold,' said I, 'this is from one of my staunchest friends, and a
                     soldier of the cause. How he came to be in Quebec is a mystery. You remember,
                     Col Arnold, the tall man at the supper, the night before Fairfax and myself
                     left Yale College, when you were present?'
                  "'Certainly I do. Ki Lane, the Sergeant who carried off your flag at Bunker's
                     Hill.'
                  "'The same, sir.'
                  "'And this is from him?'
                  "'Yes, sir; and you may rest assured that he has reasons for this advice.'
                  "'You—he—Captain?' said the Indian, pointing at me, with meaning in his
                     looks.
                  "'Yes, yes.'
                  "The Indian took from the pocket of his bead-embroidered belt a small billet,
                     which he gave to me. I tore it open at once; there was no mistaking
                        that hand-writing.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "'Dear Harry:—We are all safe, Ki and all, after a
                                 singular and strange meeting, guided by Providence. Whatever Ki
                                 writes, you will find right. Send me no answer—it is an useless
                                 risk.
                              
                                 M. M.'
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "'Nothing further is needed, Colonel. Take the advice—this note confirms
                     all.'
                  "'How so?'
                  "I explained to him at once the position of the writer, who and what she was,
                     and that there was no time for delay, for I had no doubt the enemy were
                     preparing to attack us on the Heights, in too great numbers for us to resist.
                     He immediately ordered a council of officers to assemble at his quarters that
                     evening.
                  "At daylight, on the morning of the 19th, we broke up our encampment and
                     marched to Point aux Trembles, where we now are awaiting advices from General
                     Montgomery. We have been informed, since we reached here, that Colonel McLean
                     was preparing to make a sortie upon us with his whole force, the evening of the
                     very day that we marched from the Heights of Abraham. The meaning of Ki's being
                     in Quebec, and how he came there, puzzles the brains of Fairfax and myself, and
                     we anxiously await an explanation."
                  We now close the journal of Burnham of the march to Quebec. The particulars of
                     that painful march of the troops up the Kennebec are but little known, and
                     barely touched upon in the military history of the times. In a letter from
                     General Philip Schuyler, stationed at Ticonderoga, dated November 22d, 1775, to
                     John Hancock, President of Congress, stating the news of Arnold's arrival
                     before Quebec, he writes:
                  "Colonel Arnold's march does him great honor. Some future historian will make
                     it the subject of admiration to his readers."
                  What a pity that a man possessing the great military qualities of Arnold should
                     have turned traitor to his country, only five years after.
                  It now becomes necessary, in keeping up the historical thread of our story, to
                     relate the movements of General Montgomery. On the 22d of June, 1775, that
                     officer was appointed Brigadier General by the Continental Congress. Shortly
                     after, he assumed command of the expedition against Canada, which was to
                     penetrate from Ticonderoga, by Lake Champlain, on the usual military route.
                  He was an officer of fine acquirements, having been a captain in the British
                     army, and served under Wolfe at the capture of Quebec, in 1759. After the
                     conquest of Canada from the French, he retired on half-pay, and married the
                     sister of Robert R. Livingston, of the Livingston Manor, on the Hudson. He
                     early took a stand on the side of the colonies at the commencement of the
                     troubles, and this mark of patriotism led to his appointment as the second
                     Brigadier in the service of the continent.
                  Although a native of the north of Ireland, he was of Scotch origin, his family
                     (the Montgomerys of the Highlands) having emigrated from their native hills
                     during the wars of James the Second and William of Orange, and being
                     Protestants, they received from the latter large grants of land after the fatal
                     battle of the Boyne, which destroyed the Stuart dynasty in England forever.
                  Montgomery pushed forward with wonderful alacrity, considering the little means
                     at his disposal, captured Chamblee and St. John's, garrisoned by two British
                     regiment, and laid siege to Montreal, a strongly fortified place on the St.
                     Lawrence.
                  At St. John's, he took several pieces of brass field artillery and mortars,
                     quite a supply of small arms and ammunition, and, more than all, clothing ready
                     made up, sufficient to cover the nakedness of most of his army, which, to tell
                     the truth, was not in much of a condition to serve a winter's campaign in
                     Canada.
                  Arnold having been despatched from Cambridge to meet him, it was supposed that
                     their joint forces would unite before Quebec, and, by a coup de main, capture the strongest fortress on the continent,
                     thus placing Canada in our possession, Quebec being the key to those provinces.
                     Unfortunate delays prevented this junction, which would have closed the
                     campaign in the fall of 1775, and brought the English home government to
                     immediate terms.
                  Montgomery was compelled to blockade, or, rather, starve out the garrison at
                     Montreal, where Sir Guy Carleton, Governor-General of Canada, continued in
                     command, and it was not until the 12th of November that Montgomery entered that
                     place, Sir Guy Carleton escaping to Quebec by the river St. Lawrence, which
                     city he reached on the 19th, with about a hundred men, his arrival at Quebec
                     adding much to the defence of that place.
                  It was not until the first of December that Montgomery reached Point aux
                     Trembles, with about 1,200 men, and effected his junction with Arnold at that
                     place, their united forces rather under than exceeding 2,000 soldiers, on whom
                     any real dependence could he placed. The flying portions of the militia, not
                     being under permanent control, went off in parties, "home-sick," if the phrase
                     might be used, pretty much as they pleased. The force in garrison at Quebec
                     amounted to as large a number as the besiegers.
                  On the 5th of December, 1775, Montgomery with his whole force marched to the
                     Heights of Abraham, and, shutting up every avenue leading to the city, he sent
                     forth a white flag, with summons to General Carleton to surrender.
                  The American officer, with his escort of a dozen men, advanced to within
                     pistol-shot of the gates near Fort Diamond, when he was ordered from the walls
                     to "halt." This was done. An officer appeared upon the walls and asked the
                     purport of the flag.
                  "I bear a message," was the reply, "from General Montgomery to Sir Guy
                     Carleton."
                  "Sir Guy Carleton receives no message from rebels and the opposers of the king,
                     unless the message is one of submission."
                  "I have no orders to debate any subject," answered the American officer,
                     firmly. "My orders are to deliver a written message to Sir Guy Carleton."
                  "Sir Guy Carleton directs me to answer that he will receive no communication
                     from rebels whatever, and that, if a flag again approaches the walls, it will
                     be fired upon."
                  "This I am to take back to General Montgomery, as the final answer of Sir
                     Guy?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Amen!" replied the American officer; and, giving his escort orders to wheel,
                     he was about to return, when another voice from the ramparts called out:
                  "Let the officer advance to the walls, alone."
                  Burnham, for he was the bearer of the message, gave orders to his men to halt;
                     and, bearing the white flag in one hand, and the letter from General Montgomery
                     in the other, went forward as directed.
                  Upon the ramparts stood a person of middle-age, of a mild and benevolent cast
                     of countenance, dressed in the uniform of a British general officer. It was Sir
                     Guy Carleton himself.
                  "Do you know the purport of the message you bear?" he said.
                  "I should be guilty of falsehood if I answered that I did not, sir. But here is
                     the letter—it will explain itself."
                  "Does it contain a summons for the surrender of this city and garrison?"
                  "To be frank, it does, sir."
                  "I admire your frankness, young gentleman. I have no answer or reply to make to
                        Mr. Montgomery whatever, on that score. Tell him that I shall
                     receive no flag again except with a cannon shot. I am sorry for him and his
                     deluded followers. Farewell, sir."
                  Sir Guy raised his cap, bowed politely to Burnham, and left the ramparts. A
                     band within the walls struck up "God save the King," and the conference was
                     ended.
                  On the 10th of December, the mortars of Montgomery were placed in battery, and
                     the bombardment of Quebec commenced from the grand army, if the
                     United Continental forces, few, but brave, could be given that title.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  THE ATTACK ON QUEBEC.
                  Although the bomb-batteries threw shells into the city, they were of too small
                     calibre to do much damage. At this period of time, a lapse of over seventy
                     years since the siege and attack of Quebec, we can look back upon it without
                     partizan feelings, and view it with a military eye.
                  The success of Montgomery had been so brilliant at Chamblee, St. John's and
                     Montreal, that reason was, for a time, eclipsed when compared with 
                        probabilty
                        probability
                      as to the capture of a fortress like that of Quebec. What was called
                     the lower town, was well supplied with provisions and fairly garrisoned, and,
                     more than all, Sir Guy Carleton was an able officer, and popular even on the
                     side of his opponents, the Americans, for the prisoners he had taken were
                     treated with the utmost kindness. The only chance of his assailant, Montgomery,
                     was by a coup de main, and the partial kindness of the Canadians to the
                     American cause.
                  But few officers on the continental side were at all acquainted with military
                     engineering, and those few had not, of late, seen much service. Burnham and
                     Fairfax had, from their education, received a knowledge of mathematics, and
                     were placed in charge of the mortars and artillery, the latter consisting of no
                     breaching guns, the heaviest piece being only a twelve pounder.
                  That the enemy was frightened, looking anxiously for arrivals from England,
                     there could be no doubt. This information was gained from a few deserters and
                     quite a number of the disaffected towards the English cause, the latter,
                     Carleton had driven out of town on his entering it, as mere drones and
                     consumers of provisions. This was to him a matter of policy, far more
                     preferable than if he had placed them under guard or in irons, requiring a
                     watch from his limited forces, and weakening every way the position which he
                     held as possessor of the key of Canada. For his conduct on this and other
                     occasions, he well deserved the title of Lord Dorchester, which peerage was
                     afterwards conferred upon him by King George.
                  It was not until the 17th of December, that the artillery opened upon the town,
                     but it was spending powder to as little purpose as the firing from the mortar
                     batteries. During the afternoon of that day, Montgomery visited the place where
                     the guns were served. Although under charge of Col. Christopher Green,
                     nominally, Burnham was the engineer, and had chief command.
                  Montgomery came to the lines, accompanied by his aids, Captains McPherson and
                     Cheeseman, and Col. Arnold, second in command, and other officers. Montgomery
                     was a gentlemanly looking officer, of the middle height, slightly inclined to
                     corpulency. The chief expression of his face was resolute decision. He was a
                     young man, too, comparatively speaking, for a general officer, being only
                     thirty-nine years of age. Although, at this time, he was a Major General in the
                     continental service, having been appointed to that grade by Congress on the 9th
                     of December previous, he was not aware of the fact, nor did he know it, up to
                     the morning of his fall.
                  The General-in-Chief came forward and looked at the batteries. The fire was
                     somewhat slackened as he approached, to show him the direction of the shot,
                     against the fortifications at which they were aimed.
                  "I am sorry to say, sir," said Burnham, just as he had levelled the
                     twelve-pounder and fired it in the direction of the breaching operations, "that
                     this kind of business will be of no avail to us, or any one else, except the
                     masons in the garrison. Why, sir, the copings of that rampart are all that are
                     injured, and we might fire until doomsday without sending a shot that would
                     make a breach.
                  "This, do I understand you, is all the effect of your battery of guns?"
                  "Battery of guns? why, sir, what can three six-pounders and this twelve-pounder
                     gun do, against walls twelve feet thick. As to effecting a breach, the thing is
                     impossible, and the sooner we stop wasting powder, the better."
                  "Then really, the fire had better be stopped. Have you lost any men?"
                  "None killed, but three badly wounded by the bursting of a honey-comb iron gun
                     of ours, and the arm of another taken off by the single discharge of a wall
                     piece from the enemy."
                  "This is bad and gloomy indeed," said Montgomery, to his officers, "let us go
                     on to the mortar battery, and examine if anything can be accomplished in that
                     direction."
                  "Nothing at all," said an officer who approached him—"not one out of four
                     shells explode, and that one barely reaches the ramparts. We are merely wasting
                     time and powder, sir." This was said in no obtrusive or complaining manner, but
                     expressing a firm opinion.
                  "Do you command the mortar batteries, sir?" said Montgomery, looking at the
                     officer.
                  "I do, this morning, General."
                  "But your dress denotes that you belong to the rifles"
                  "Yes, sir, Captain Frank Fairfax of the Virginian rifles."
                  "The Virginians have done honor to the service, so far, Captain. Lead on, if
                     you please, to your position."
                  The General, with his staff, led by Fairfax, went on to the position of the
                     mortars, and examined the operations fully. Several shells were discharged in
                     his presence, which brought back a few shot in return. It was evident the
                     shells could do no damage, and the Commander-in-Chief gave orders for no
                     further firing from the artillery or mortars.
                  That same evening, Fairfax, Burnham, and Morgan messed together. The supper did
                     not go off with the same joviality as formerly, for all of the parties
                     experienced too much anxiety for the success of future operations, and victory
                     or defeat hung upon a thread.
                  "I tell you what it is, my lads," said Morgan, as he stretched himself full
                     length upon a bench at their rough quarters, "we've got to take Quebec some
                     other way than firing big guns at stone walls."
                  "Give us your plan, Major Dan," said Fairfax.
                  "Why, make a rush some night in a storm, and carry the place by a storm of our
                     own."
                  "To do this we must have scaling ladders, fascines and gabions," said Burnham,
                     "and make our attack by feints, as well as realities, in different places,
                     which our force will hardly admit of."
                  "I don't know nothing about your faseens and gab'ns," replied Morgan, "but, as to ladders, they can be made, and I'm ready
                     to lead one attack, faint or no faint, as you call it, though I
                     leave them matters to love-sick gals and boys."
                  As Morgan understood feint after its literal pronunciation, there
                     was no need of explaining, and Fairfax and Burnham simply exchanged smiles, at
                     the supposition of the brave, but ignorant soldier.
                  "Something must be done speedily, doubtless, Major," said Fairfax, "and,
                     perhaps, a night attack, on your plan, is as good as any. If the General should
                     call a simple Captain, like myself, to council, I would make the suggestion, at
                     any rate."
                  "He has held no council of importance yet, Fairfax, and, perhaps, he may think
                     the managers of artillery and mortar batteries not beneath consultation."
                  "Or a Major of rifles either, my lads; but, never mind, Dan Morgan was never
                     the man to hold back when he had orders to push on, come what might."
                  "Was you ever at any military consultation, Major Dan, save those held on the
                     banks of the Kennebec and at Point Levi?" inquired Fairfax, with a
                     half-quizzical air.
                  "On one occasion I was, Frank, though I see the drift of your fun, my lad. It
                     was a military consultation of wagoners, after Braddock's defeat,
                     and a quick one it was, my lad, I can tell you. We concluded we had better trot
                     as fast as possible, when the British regulars were moving ahead of us,
                     double-quick time, and the Indians after us, in the rear, a little faster.
                     Monongahela never ran down my throat quite so quick as I scampered on that same
                     hot day in July, '55; it was hot walking, and on a canter at that."
                  "Do you think you could go as fast now, Major?" asked Burnham.
                  "That depends entirely on circumstances, and who were running behind or before.
                     If it was after the enemy, now, I think I might go full as fast, my lad."
                  "Then, God grant you may have the chance as speedily as possible, say I."
                  "And so say we all, 'amen!' as the minister used to say in Winchester church,
                     though, to tell the truth, I never heard him say it but once
                        inside, to my shame I say so, for they say he was a fine man,
                     that Parson Bull. I know he could roar like one, for some people called him the
                     bull of Bashan, which, I've hear'n tell scriptur' says, had a mighty loud voice
                     of his own."
                  "I am sorry to hear that you was so little of a church-goer, Major Dan, or read
                     the Bible so seldom in your younger days," said Burnham, rather gravely.
                  "Oh! I was like an Ingen then, and mostly heathen, but I'm changed since that
                     day, depend on't. I read the Bible now three times a year, regular."
                  "Then there is some hopes of you, Major, after all—but who have we here?"
                  An orderly entered with a message from the commanding General, for the three
                     officers to proceed to his quarters immediately.
                  On reaching them, they found most of the officers of any rank assembled, the
                     object being a general consultation of all, to hear and decide upon the best
                     plan of operations. The younger officers were introduced rather for the purpose
                     of giving their suggestions, whilst the General and field officers selected the
                     one that seemed most plausible from the number.
                  The result of the conference was, that an attack should be made on the morning
                     of the 25th of December, on the upper and lower towns conjointly, whilst two
                     feints were to be made on the part called St. John, and on Cape Diamond. Every
                     preparation was made, the commands allotted, and the officers used the most
                     vigorous exertions to carry out their respective duties as directed.
                  Before daylight, on the morning of the day designated, the troops were under
                     arms, when, much to the chagrin of both officers and men, the attack was
                     countermanded, at a time which was thought the attack would have been
                     successful.
                  The reason of this countermand has never to this day been fully explained. It
                     was generally thought, however, and the supposition is plausible, that it was
                     owing to the advice of two Canadian gentlemen, friendly to the cause, who had
                     recently came into camp, Messrs. Price and Antill, merchants, from Montreal and
                     Quebec. At any rate, the advice was bad, for even the enemy afterwards admitted
                     there was a fair probability of success, one of their officers writing, in a
                     letter to a friend in England:—"The Americans were seen near the walls before
                     daylight, and we had a terrible alarm, but they did not follow up
                     their purpose. From that time forward the garrison were armed every night."
                  At length, the period for the attack was fixed upon in good earnest. It was to
                     be made before daylight, on the morning of the last day of the year, December
                     31st, 1775. A remarkable and fatal attack, that will long be remembered in our
                     annals.
                  The attack was to be made simultaneously, on the north and south end of the
                     lower town. The first led by Arnold, the other by Montgomery, whilst two feints
                     were to be made on different portions of the walls by a party of Canadians, led
                     by Colonel Livingston and Major Brown. The plan was, upon the main, good, but
                     still depended entirely too much on the effort of certain contingencies, which,
                     if they did not happen, would render success very uncertain on the
                     part of the attackers. The result proved the error of Montgomery's leading his
                     division in person.
                  The division of Arnold consisted of Morgan's riflemen and the musketmen of New
                     England, whilst that of Montgomery consisted solely of New York troops. The
                     divisions were nearly equal in numbers, but brave as they were few. The reader
                     will remember that, by this arrangement, Burnham and Fairfax were in the same
                     division, to attack the north end of the town.
                  The fore part of the night of the 30th of December, the two young officers
                     passed together, neither knowing but it might be the last time. Near midnight,
                     they separated, just as a heavy north-east snow storm set in. Burnham busied
                     himself until two o'clock in writing a letter to his parents, which he
                     delivered to a brother officer, who was too unwell to take part in the
                     approaching fight, with directions to forward it should anything befall
                     him.
                  At two o'clock A. M., Burnham silently put his company in motion, not a drum
                     being allowed to beat or a fife to play, and took his position in line, in the
                     midst of a terrific storm of sleet, hail and snow. Survivors of that disastrous
                     night and morning describe the storm as bitter and chilling in the extreme,
                     which they had to endure under arms, without out moving from the lines, for two long freezing
                     hours.
                  Burnham was in front of his company, conversing in a low tone with Major Meigs,
                     when, through the driving snow-flakes, and just perceivable, half a dozen
                     officers approached, and stopped in front of the line. The leading officer was
                     Montgomery, accompanied by his aids and others of his division. Not a word was
                     said for a moment on either side, when Montgomery advanced, and inquired of
                     Meigs if all was ready in Arnold's division.
                  "Everything, I believe, sir. We are only waiting the signal;" and the two
                     officers went apart from the group, and continued the conversation.
                  Burnham felt his arm grasped, and turning round, beheld young Burr, who was
                     then acting as a volunteer aid of Montgomery.
                  "Ah! Burr, how do you feel this cold night?"
                  "I do not feel so much from cold, Burnham, as I do from doubt. I fear for the
                     result."
                  "I must own that I am not without such fears, but it does not become us young
                     officers to misdoubt the plans of our superiors. Would to heaven that the
                     orders were given to advance, every moment's delay increases the advantages of
                     the enemy. Does the General still insist upon leading the advance of his own
                     division?"
                  "Yes, and all the requests of his aids and others are of no avail in preventing
                     it. I do not think that the point of attack is a good one, and, from a
                     reconnoitre I made just at dusk, I am fearful of a masked battery"
                  "It is too late now to alter the plans, I suppose, and if the General insists
                     upon leading a forlorn hope, so be it and success to him. But see,
                     he is coming this way."
                  Montgomery passed along, raised his chapeau, from which the snow fell like a
                     shower of frosted diamonds, and said, in a firm voice:
                  "Gentlemen, when next we meet, may it be to congratulate each other in the
                     citadel of Quebec, as victors."
                  Never to be realized wish! These words were the last that ever the gallant
                     soldier uttered to the division of Arnold. The group passed on, and were
                     speedily lost amid the snow flakes which now, in misty whirls, hid everything
                     from view.
                  It was near four o'clock in the morning, the morning of that cold, snowy,
                     thirty-first of December, 1775, that a single rocket shot up into the air,
                     making one long line of light, and then disappeared from view. It was the fatal
                     signal,—and each man stood to his arms.
                  "Forward!" passed from company to company. "Forward!" said each officer in
                     succession, and tramp, tramp, through the crackling snow and driving sleet, was
                     heard the rapid, yet steady march of the soldiers.
                  Burnham felt suddenly elated—his blood flowed with a new heat through his
                     veins, as he sheathed his sword and swung his fusee from his shoulder, and
                     repeated the word, "Forward!" He had been on the march for five minutes, in the
                     middle of the division, when he was accosted in a half broken tone, "You Cap'n
                     Burnham?"
                  Burnham stepped out of the ranks for an instant, and beheld the Indian who had
                     brought him the notes from Ki and Miss Manners, when the troops were encamped
                     on the Heights of Abraham. "Here you, take, read much quick!" he handed Burnham
                     a slip of paper, and disappeared as quickly and singularly as he had come.
                  The young officer rushed forward to a place where a fire had been kindled by
                     some of the soldiers during their rest, and seizing hold of a brand, held it up
                     so as to read the paper; the contents were as follows:—
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 LOWER TOWN, QUEBEC,
                                 One o'clock, morning.
                              
                              There is news that the troops attack this morning at daylight, and
                                 all are under arms. I'm a prisoner, and can do nothing. Don't, for
                                 your life, if you can stop it, Harry, have an attack made on the
                                    south side, unite on the north, and
                                 Quebec will fall. Haste! haste! tell the General this.
                              
                                 KI."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Burnham rushed forward to Major Meigs, who was in immediate command, stated to
                     him the contents of the note hurriedly, and received permission to proceed
                     alone with all haste in the direction of Montgomery's division. With his utmost
                     speed he retraced his way, but, as events turned out, to be one moment, only
                        one moment, too late!
                  
                  Montgomery, at the head of the New York division, had passed along the river
                     St. Lawrence, then frozen hard, by way of the Aunce de Mere,
                     under Cape Diamond. A block-house and picket stood at a place called the Potash barrier, and directly in the rear was a partially masked
                     six-pounder, loaded with cannister and grape. By the time the head of
                     Montgomery's division (and, how unfortunate! he was at its head,) had reached
                     the pickets at the Potash barrier, Burnham was within a hundred yards of the
                     General and the head of his advancing column. Rushing forward as rapidly as
                     possible, he could just perceive Montgomery, through the driving snow, take
                     hold of the pickets as if to pull them down, followed by his aids. Panting
                     almost for breath, on Burnham went, when suddenly there came over his sight a
                     glare of flame, a heavy booming sound with the whizzing of shot ringing in his
                     ears, and he sank without power to sustain himself on his knees in the
                     snow.
                  Rising, half-confused, to his feet, Burnham wildly looked round, one glance
                     sufficed to tell the tale and restore him to his senses. The morn had begun to
                     break in the east, under a leaden cloud stretching behind the falling snow, the
                     whiteness of which contrasted strangely with the sombre perspective.
                  Not ten feet from him were three bodies stretched at full length, with their
                     faces upturned to the beating snow-flakes, and from the breast of each flowed
                     in crimson currents, the ebbing life-blood, dying the space around with a
                     glowing circle. The centre form was that of the gallant Montgomery, and on each
                     side of him lay the yet warm corses of his two aids, McPherson and
                        Cheeseman.*
                        The same fatal discharge had ended the lives of all!
                  
                     
                     *McPherson was from Philadelphia, a graduate of Princeton College, the
                        year before he fell. Cheeseman was from the city of New York, a ship
                        carpenter by trade originally. The celebrated physician, Dr. Cheeseman,
                        is a nephew of the gallant soldier who fell at Quebec.
                  
                  So sudden and unexpected had been the discharge of the cannon, that the men and
                     officers immediately around Montgomery, (and of the rank and file some
                     half-dozen had fallen) stood gazing on the deathly scene, not stirring, their
                     eyes fixed, as if suddenly stopped from moving beneath their lids by the spell
                     of an enchanter. Oh! the scene was truly terrible.
                  Then a single shout!—from the embrasure where the cannon had been fired, leaped
                     a tall and powerful man. A fur cap covered his head, a bear skin coat, torn in
                     some places and marked with dripping blood, enveloped his manly form. He rushed
                     with the agility of a tiger into the midst of the dismayed forces—he opened his
                     shaggy covering, and displayed a tattered continental uniform!
                  "Hurrah! push on now, NOW! all is not lost!"
                  The man was KI LANE.
                  So sudden was the appearance of Ki in the midst of the group; from the
                     surprise, combined with the effects of the discharge of the gun, even
                        he could not succeed in rallying the troops. "If you will
                     follow me," he exclaimed, "I will lead you through the sally-port, be quick, or
                     it is too late"
                  He was seconded by Burnham and a few others, when Colonel Donald Campbell, the
                     second in command of the division after the fall of Montgomery, gave peremptory
                     orders to retreat. It was in vain that Ki and Burnham urged one more attempt,
                     the Colonel would hear nothing, and those who felt inclined to advance were
                     compelled to obey the orders without further movements on their part. This
                     order of Campbell was highly censured at the time, but the truth was, he lacked
                     nerve.
                  Burnham, barely questioning Ki as to the disposition of the enemy, for he had
                     no time to ask how he had made his appearance so strangely, hurried with him in
                     the direction of the division of Arnold and Morgan, at the northern end of the
                     lower town.
                  As they advanced, they could hear the quick and rapid discharges of rifles and
                     musketry, amid the driving sleet and snow which beat terribly in their faces
                     Through the sleet, approached four men, carrying two officers, badly wounded.
                     The first of these was Arnold, who, at the first discharge from the enemy, had
                     been severely wounded in the leg.
                  "Push on, both of you," he said, "I've got an ugly wound here, but things are
                     going on fair, our side of the town. I hope Montgomery is doing as well, where
                     he attacked the enemy."
                  "The General is killed, and all is lost in that quarter," said Burnham, and he
                     and Ki pushed on for the scene of conflict.
                  "Good God!" exclaimed Arnold, "did you hear that, Ogden?"
                  "I did, sir," replied the wounded officer, "the news is terrible in the
                     extreme."
                  "Fatal result!—carry us to the hospital—my blood is chilling with the cold, and
                     this news almost freezes it," said Arnold, and the soldiers bore him and young
                     Ogden, who was badly wounded in the shoulder, to the hospital
                  Burnham and Ki arrived too late, and, as the result proved, fortunately for
                     them. When they reached the place attacked, they found that Morgan had entered
                     the town by sealing the walls, and, opening a sally-port, admitted Meigs' and
                     the rest of the troops, but the sally-port was now closed. From some straggling
                     Americans outside the walls, who kept firing at the enemy on the ramparts,
                     Burnham learned that the troops had entered successfully, but, owing to some
                     delay, had not advanced, and the garrison, rallying, had closed the sally-port,
                     and the action was raging within.
                  It is now time to return to the division of Arnold, when Burnham left it to
                     carry the message to Montgomery, for the purpose of connecting the events of
                     the narrative.
                  The column pushed on to their destined point of attack, the lower town, and,
                     while fixing their scaling ladders, were fired upon heavily from the garrison.
                     It was by this discharge that Arnold received his wound—a wound that utterly
                     disabled him from duty, and he had to be borne off in the way before
                     related.
                  His fall made temporary confusion, but Morgan and Fairfax and the rifles, and
                     Dearborn's company of musketmen, were sent forward as a sort of forlorn hope.
                     Fixing their sealing ladders, they mounted the ramparts with but little loss,
                     driving before them the few soldiers thereon.
                  On reaching the top, they saw just below them, in one of the streets of the
                     town, a two-gun battery, and on the platform about fifty men. There was no time
                     for delay, and Morgan was as decisive as courageous.
                  "Follow me, my lads," he exclaimed—"neck or nothing with us—it is well the
                     platform is so near. Leap, lads, leap," and, suiting his action to his words,
                     he jumped down upon the platform in the midst of the British soldiers.
                  He was followed by Fairfax, Dearborn, and some thirty men, the riflemen giving
                     the Indian war-whoop, the enemy, panic struck, fled in every direction, not a
                     few of whom were cut down in their retreat by the unerring aim of the
                     Virginians. Fairfax, passing round the platform, opened the sally-port, and, in
                     a short time, about four hundred men of the division had gained an entrance to
                     the town.
                  So far, all was successful in the attack on this portion of the town, as had
                     been expected, but, Arnold having fallen, the two officers, superior to Morgan
                     in command, overruled his request to advance into the town, and from this
                     delay, it is not improbable, the victory was lost. Morgan always contended,
                     whenever the attack on Quebec was spoken of, up to the day of his death, that,
                     if he had been allowed to have his own way, so panic struck were the enemy, he
                     could have taken the town and held it, until the remainder of Montgomery's
                     troops had followed by the route he
                     advanced. The fall of commanders, in all cases, are apt to dampen the ardor of
                     troops, for the reason that the leaders are supposed to best know their own
                     plans, and that, in carrying them out, successors may fail.
                  The reasons given by the officers for delay were, to receive intelligence of
                     Montgomery's success in his attack on the south part of the town. This was
                     idle, because, the attack being simultaneous, it was intended that both parties
                     should advance and meet in the centre of the town.
                  The garrison, perceiving this delay on the part of the division that had
                     attacked the northern end, and having been made aware of the defeat of the
                     other division, now began to rally and assume the defensive. Orders were then
                     given, after losing half an hour's valuable time, for the troops to advance,
                     and Morgan was not slow in pressing forward. Passing up the narrow streets, the
                     riflemen and musketmen engaged hand to hand with the British soldiers, and many
                     instances of individual heroism on both sides took place.
                  Between the lulls of the firing of the combatants, and far above the rattling
                     of the tempest of sleet and snow, was heard the wild shout and orders of Morgan
                     to his men.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *On a clear day, Morgan's shout, it is said, could be heard three miles.
                        An officer won a wager on this in the camp at Saratoga.
                  
                  "Don't lose a shot, men! Be careful of your powder!"
                  "Aye, aye, sir!" would be the response.
                  "There lies Dick Winston, brave fellow, with a shot through his breast. Stop,
                     stop, let me have a crack at the fellow who did it. I see the scoundrel
                     skulking behind the side of the window. He's no Ingen."
                  Crack, went Morgan's rifle, and the British soldier passed instantly from
                     existence, the ball going directly through his temples.
                  The enemy finding that they had nothing to gain by fighting in the open
                     streets—a method in which the Americans were far superior—withdrew gradually
                     into the looped stone houses, lining the streets, increasing constantly in
                     numbers.
                  In this way the fight continued for over an hour, until the ammunition of the
                     Americans began to grow short. Morgan, Fairfax and Dearborn, were constantly in
                     the advance with their men, but they became much surprised that no indication
                     yet displayed itself, by firing or otherwise, of the advance of Montgomery from
                     the other side.
                  Captain Hendricks, who commanded the only rifle company from Pennsylvania that
                     had penetrated into the town by the side of Morgan, was advancing to speak to
                     the latter officer, then holding a consultation with Dearborn and Fairfax, when
                     a shot from a window struck him, and he fell to the ground, dead. A loud shout
                     arose from the enemy, in which was also heard the cry, "the rebel general,
                     Montgomery, has fallen, on the other side of the town. Huzza!"
                  Constant accessions of new troops at the windows and in the streets, as well as
                     large bodies of sailors at different points, indicated to the Americans that a
                     reverse of some kind must have befallen their brethren in another direction.
                     Though victorious thus far, so many had fallen, killed and wounded, that Morgan
                     reluctantly gave orders to retreat in the direction they had entered the
                     town.
                  Deploying from a by-street, Morgan and his companions met Major Meigs, Captain
                     Ward and others, also retreating with their men. They had learned from a
                     prisoner that Montgomery had fallen, and the defeat of his division, before
                     unknown to Morgan.
                  "Then," said the latter, "we must cut our way back, and get out of this den of
                     rattlesnakes as quick as we can."
                  This plan was too late, although they knew it not, for the enemy had, sometime
                     before, got in their rear, closed the sally-port, and turned the two-gun
                     battery so as to enfilade the street. The weather was bitter cold, for the snow
                     had ceased to fall, and changed to a driving, rainy sleet, freezing almost as
                     fast as it descended—adding additional misery to the agonizing pangs of the
                     wounded, who lay scattered through the streets.
                  As Fairfax was stooping to raise a wounded Sergeant, of his own company, and
                     place him in a doorway, out of reach of the storm, a stray shot struck him in
                     the leg, just above the ancle, and he fell backwards in the snow. Striving to
                     lift himself upon one elbow, another shot glanced along his arm, tearing the
                     flesh badly, and he sank down, unable to help himself.
                  By this time, his friends had retreated out of sight, down the street; and, as
                     he reposed in the snow, his face upturned to the pelting storm, he could hear,
                     from time to time, the pealing shouts of Morgan, cheering his men in the
                     unequal fight, as he cut his way towards the sally-port.
                  On reaching the spot, they perceived the battery in front, and, the whole
                     command being now reduced to some two or three hundred men, the officers were
                     convinced that they were cut off, and that all chance of succor from without
                     was lost.
                  They were not kept long in suspense. The firing on the part of the enemy having
                     ceased, a flag was seen approaching from the palace gate. They were ordered to
                     surrender, by Sir Guy Carleton, at discretion, with the promise of kind
                     treatment. If they would not do so, they must take the consequences.
                  Everything considered, the offer was a liberal one, and fully justified by the
                     laws of war. There was not the least chance for the escape of a single man, if
                     the enemy chose, and Lieutenant Colonel Green, superior in command, together
                     with Majors Bigelow, Meigs, Morgan, and the other officers, accepted the terms.
                     Sir Guy Carleton, according to his promise, treated them with the utmost
                     kindness, bestowing great attention upon the wounded, they being at once
                     conveyed to the hospitals, and receiving the same treatment as the wounded of
                     his own troops.
                  Thus ended the disastrous attack upon Quebec; unsuccessful from the loss of the
                     commanders at the onset, in which fell one general officer, three Captains, a
                     number of subalterns terns—about two hundred men killed and wounded, and near
                     four hundred officers and privates, the flower of the American army, taken
                     prisoners.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  It was after six o'clock in the morning when Burnham, Ki, and the remnant of
                     the Americans without the walls of Quebec on Arnold's side of attack, took
                     their mournful march to camp.
                  The fight was over, they knew not who was killed among their friends in town,
                     discomfiture had fallen upon the banners of their country, they were hundreds
                     of miles from home, and a bitter Canadian winter had set in with unusual
                     severity.
                  When they reached camp, they found things in confusion. Arnold being too
                     severely wounded to attend to duty, the command devolved upon Col. Donald
                     Campbell, of the New York line, a man wofully deficient in military energy,
                     though honest and patriotic enough.
                  Burnham had not time to exchange a dozen words with Ki, when he was immediately
                     ordered on duty, to arrange the outposts, and prevent surprise from any sudden
                     attack which it was thought the garrison might attempt after their victory. He
                     left Ki at his quarters (the latter being attached to no particular corps) with
                     a request for him to remain, until his return from obeying orders.
                  In the course of a couple of hours (the arrangement of the posts and stationing
                     the men being left to his discretion) he returned, after reporting services.
                     Now, he thought, he would be able to have a couple of hours' rest, and in that
                     time hear the whole of Ki's relation of his singular absence, and his sudden
                     appearance at Quebec.
                  He was mistaken Orders were awaiting him to come immediately to the camp
                     hospital, where Arnold was lying, wounded.
                  "Plenty of business, this, Ki," said Burnham, snatching a biscuit and a piece
                     of cold meat from the table; but we shall have time to talk a
                     little, I think, after a while. Would to God I knew the fate of Fairfax and his
                     gallant companions, my friends!"
                  "Cheer up, Harry, cheer up! hope for the best. You had given me up, I know, but
                     here I am, safe and sound. Others will turn up as well, I guess. We shall have
                     news from inside the walls soon."
                  "May it be good news, then, my ever faithful, good-hearted Ki!"
                  He turned away, dropping a tear which he could not well conceal, and soon
                     reached the hospital.
                  Arnold was lying on a mattress, suffering great pain, which he could not
                     conceal, for the surgeons had told him that, without great quiet and attention
                     on his part, amputation might become necessary.
                  "Damns," and other still more impolite expletives, burst from time to time from
                     his lips, though he was surrounded by all the officers, not beneath the grade
                     of captains, yet remaining from the unfortunate results of the morning.
                  Arnold expressed, as well as his frequent spasms of pain would permit, his
                     desire that the siege should continue. "He knew," he said, "that there were
                        some officers in favor of a retreat, but as long as he had one
                     leg to stand upon, the troops should not go if he could restrain them. He was
                     willing to take the opinions, however, of every officer upon the subject, and,
                     for that reason, he had called them together."
                  "In the first place," he went on to say, "a retreat now, would most probably be
                     followed-up, and some portion of the army would fall into the enemy's power.
                     The sick and wounded could not be removed with any kind of safety, and God
                     knows what treatment they might receive from the enemy at this terrible
                     crisis."
                  "Again, General Wooster is now at Montreal, with a large force, and will soon
                     advance to Quebec. We must send immediately an express to him with the news of
                     our perilous situation. This will urge him on, and if we keep a regular siege
                     or blockade, we shall prevent the enemy from receiving provisions, and force
                     them into a surrender, before aid can come from England. I stand in no fear of
                     a sortie—we are only checked, not defeated. Now I should like to hear your
                     opinions."
                  Each officer gave his opinion, commencing with the youngest in rank, and after
                     an hour's consultation and debate, it was decided by a large majority of
                     officers that the blockade should continue until an answer was received from
                     Wooster.
                  As Burnham was about leaving, being among the last, Arnold requested him to
                     stay a little while, for he wished to hold some conversation with him.
                  "It has been decided, you are aware, that an express should be sent immediately
                     to Gen. Wooster, at Montreal. I should like you much to undertake it, but I
                     say, without flattery, this is no time to spare you, your services are too
                     valuable when there are so many ignorant nincompoops holding commissions in the
                     continental service in this quarter. Can't you recommend some one who will
                     undertake it?"
                  Burnham 'thought a moment, and then replied:
                  "I believe, Col. Arnold, the very man is now at my quarters. He will undertake
                     anything for the good of his country."
                  "Who is he?"
                  "Ensign Lane."
                  "I thought he was a prisoner at Quebec?"
                  "He was, but made his escape during the battle, this morning."
                  Burnham then proceeded to relate the escape of Ki, while Arnold listened with
                     great interest.
                  "Brave fellow!" he said, "he must undertake it. Obtain his consent, and bring
                     him here at tattoo. If he reaches Montreal in safety, he shall have an
                     additional grade, if Benedict Arnold has any influence whatever."
                  "You do not know him, Colonel Arnold. If he undertakes the expedition, it will
                     be for his country, not for rank; he
                     would despise mere reward." And they separated.
                  Burnham reached his quarters in a very short time, where he found, as in old
                     times, Ki had made himself useful in preparing a hot meal, without the aid of
                     the Captain's servant.
                  "Now, Ki, over this coffee and venison-broil, give me your history, from
                     beginning to end. I am more hungry after that, than any other food."
                  Ki, briefly but clearly, proceeded to relate his adventures. The reader will
                     recollect what happened to Ki, up to the period of his being taken on board the
                     ship, almost lifeless, where Dr. Manners and his daughter were passengers, so
                     we will pass over that. A gale coming on afterwards, the ship was driven off,
                     and the captain thought best to make his way direct to Quebec.
                  By the kind attention of Mary Manners and her father, Ki soon recovered
                     sufficiently to explain the singular situation in which he was found, drifting
                     out to sea, and the reason of his wounds, from which he suffered terribly, in
                     spite of the attentions of the ship's surgeon.
                  By a singular fatuity, on board the same ship was Watkins, the British spy, but
                     he was now among his own friends, as far as the cause went. Our readers will
                     remember that at the close of the thirty-third chapter of our story, Watkins
                     made his escape from Cambridge by rushing into the water, where he was taken up
                     by a boat and carried in safety on board a ship in the harbor. The ship was
                     under immediate sailing orders, and on board were the Doctor and his daughter.
                     There was no chance to put Watkins on shore, and thus he was carried off, an
                     unwilling passenger.
                  On the arrival of the ship at Quebec, the commanding officer of the place, for
                     the time being, who had been a field-officer in the regiment to which Watkins
                     belonged as Sergeant, on the information of the latter, directed Ki to be
                     closely confined as a rebel of most dangerous character, with a threat of
                     sending him to England to be hung.
                  The remonstrance of Dr. Manners was of no avail, for Sir Guy Carleton, the
                     Commander-in-Chief, his warm friend, was then at St. John's, to meet Montgomery
                     on his advance. It was not till after the capture of Montreal, by the
                     Americans, that Sir Guy reached Quebec, when at once, on the request of his old
                     friend, he gave orders for Ki's release, with permission for him to roam at
                     large in certain portions of the town. His wounds soon healed, under the kind
                     attention of good Mary Manners.
                  By the information received from her—the patriot in petticoats—and through the
                     instrumentality of a friendly Indian, who went in and out of the town by a way
                     known only to himself, he had sent into the American camp the messages which
                     Burnham had received. The afternoon of the day before, Sir Guy heard of the
                     intended attack that morning, and Mary Manners, in some way—how, he, Ki, could
                     not tell—became aware that Sir Guy had received such information.
                  It was this reason that led him to send into camp the slip of paper, which was
                     not received in time, (owing to treachery, or something else, on the part of
                     the Indian,) advising no attack to be made on the south end, as a masked
                     six-pounder had been placed there the night before, to cut down the troops who
                     entered the barriers.
                  Ki was confined in the barracks, on account of his being a rebel, about
                     midnight, and placed under the charge of a single sentinel. This was near the
                     masked cannon. Hearing the attack, he knocked down the guard, and, seizing his
                     musket as he fell, passed quickly in the direction of the gun, but did not
                     reach the spot until it had been fired. He quickly bayoneted the artilleryman,
                     and the others began to fly, thinking they were attacked in the rear. It was
                     then he leaped out of the embrasure among his friends, to urge them on, as the
                     reader knows, in vain. Had twenty men have followed him, he could have opened
                     an old disused sally-port, and admitted the whole; but the golden moment passed
                     away when the order was given to retreat by the American commander.
                  Such was the sum and substance of Ki's story. He wound up by saying:—"Mary
                     Manners was well, more charming and beautiful than ever, and still more
                     patriotic, and, that day she had expected to see her countrymen enter the gates
                     of Quebec! She would cry to-night," and Ki himself sighed as he spoke.
                  That evening, Burnham and Ki were with Colonel Arnold. The despatches to
                     General Wooster were drawn up and delivered, and, the next morning, in the
                     disguise of a camp-hanger-on, belonging 'occasionally to both sides, or
                     whichever bettered his condition, Ki commenced his journey of two hundred miles
                     to Montreal, having just escaped from one adventure to engage in another, to
                     all appearances, far more dangerous.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  THE INTERIOR OF QUEBEC.
                  It was the day succeeding the attack of the Americans. In the hospitals, the
                     wounded of both armies were receiving every attention the British surgeons
                     could bestow. So particular was Sir Guy Carleton on this point, that he
                     personally went the rounds of the various wards of the hospital.
                  He was accompanied by the Rev. Dr. Manners, who, having been made acquainted
                     with the fact that Harry Burnham was among those in front of the city, the day
                     before, was now very anxious to ascertain whether he was not among the wounded
                     prisoners. As he approached the mattress where Fairfax was lying—for he had
                     been among the first conveyed to the hospital after the surrender—he heard that
                     officer make this inquiry of one of the men:—
                  "Is there a Captain Burnham among the prisoners?"
                  The man replied, that he did not know, but he would inquire of the Commissary
                     of Prisoners, who was then in the room. The answer was satisfactory to
                     Fairfax—that no such name was on the list. The minister, who had as anxiously
                     awaited the answer, now spoke:—
                  "You mentioned Captain Burnham's name—is he a friend of yours?"
                  "My dearest friend in the army, sir."
                  "You are badly wounded, I perceive."
                  "Disagreeably so, at any rate, sir. A ball has passed through the fleshy part
                     of my right leg, above the ancle, and my left arm is lacerated by another."
                  "May I ask your name, my young friend?"
                  "Certainly, sir. Frank Fairfax, Captain in the rifles."
                  "Ah! I have heard my old pupil, Harry, speak of you. You were with him in
                     college, I believe?"
                  "I was, sir; and, I presume, I have the honor of conversing with the Rev. Dr.
                     Manners?"
                  "That is my name."
                  "Can you tell me anything in relation to Ensign Lane, sir?—a prisoner in
                     Quebec."
                  "He was a prisoner, but made his escape, yesterday, during the
                     attack, by the way of the southern barrier. Ki is a cunning rebel, though, I
                     believe, an honest one."
                  "Yes, sir; honest as the day is long, which, I hope, all of us, of
                     the same way of thinking, are. I shall not find fault with the term rebel. A
                     successful cause ceases to be called a treasonable one, and the cause to which
                     I belong must be successful, for it is just."
                  "Well, well, we'll say no more about that, now. I feel sorry, indeed, that
                        some of my countrymen consider themselves so much aggrieved as
                     to take up arms against their lawful sovereign. Sir Guy, here, you perceive,
                     does not forget humanity, at any rate."
                  "Sir Guy Carleton, I have ever heard spoken of as a gentleman and a man of
                     honor," replied Fairfax, inclining his head to that officer, who stood beside
                     his bed.
                  "This is an unfortunate war, young gentleman," said Sir Guy—"it is the child
                     against the parent. I am sorry that the colonies are so deluded at the present
                     time, and trust that the parental authority of King George, whose
                     representative I am in these provinces, will be so exercised that the people
                     will speedily return to their natural allegiance. In the meantime, whatever I
                     can do to alleviate the sufferings of the wounded prisoners under my control
                     shall be done."
                  The humanity of Sir Guy was, indeed, on all occasions, well known. It has ever
                     been a doubt among historians, that, if he had been appointed
                     Commander-in-Chief of the British army at the breaking out of the revolution,
                     whether or no amicable terms would not have been agreed upon by the colonies
                     and the mother country.
                  The blundering movements of the home government, in their state papers—the
                     assumption of a right to tax the colonies when and where they
                     pleased, without any proviso whatever—the employment of foreign soldiers as an
                     act of coercion in forcing down such laws as might be enacted by Parliament—all
                     combined, rendered a settlement of the question dubious, except by absolute
                     force.
                  A large portion of the English people were, also, averse to the acts of the
                     ministry, and made common cause, as far as words and arguments could go, in
                     deprecating the acts of the ministry. A blind fatality, however, seemed to
                     follow every movement made by Lord North and his associates, and no man more
                     bitterly lamented this infatuation than Sir Guy Carleton, Governor-in-Chief of
                     the two Canadas. His orders were, to him, always a disagreeable duty.
                  Fairfax observed the Governor and Dr. Manners retire from his bedside, and
                     converse together for a few moments. They then left the hospital, merely
                     exchanging bows with the wounded officer.
                  "Rather cold leaving this," thought Fairfax, as the two personages disappeared.
                     "I did intend to ask of Sir Guy the privilege of sending into our camp for my
                     clothes and my boy Marc; however, let that go—I suppose the request will not be
                     complied with, for particular reasons."
                  Fairfax little knew what was really in store for him. He knew not that the
                     Protestant Bishop of Quebec, for such was now Dr. Manners' title, and Sir Guy,
                     had both arranged matters for his reception in another place.
                  "The surgeon told me, your grace, that this young officer would
                     bear removing, and I imagine that you will have no objection that a portion of
                     the Bishop's palace should be at his disposal?"
                  "The very thing, Sir Guy, that I had at my tongue's end to request of you.
                     Since that foolish boy, Burnham, my special favorite, is not among the
                     prisoners, I should really like that this young Virginian should be placed
                     under my own protection. His father is one of the chief leaders in the Congress
                     at Philadelphia, and there is policy in taking charge of the lad."
                  "The young officer is at the disposal of the Bishop of Quebec," was the quick
                     answer of Carleton.
                  "Then, sir, I shall send for him at once."
                  It was near night, when a litter was placed at the side of Fairfax's bed, and
                     he lifted therein. He could only express his surprise, at this disposition of
                     his almost helpless frame, for he knew nothing of where he was to be carried or
                     for what. His wounds were painful in the extreme; the chill he had received in
                     the tempest, for he lay sometime exposed to the storm, after his being shot
                     down, had resulted in extra inflammation.
                  How far he had been carried or where, Fairfax could not tell when he awoke. He
                     knew that a night had passed away, for, when be opened his eyes, a clear wintry
                     sunlight poured its rays into a pleasant room. Everything about the place was
                     comfortable in the extreme, but more than all, the face of a black, sitting on
                     a chair, half dozing is one corner over the fire, surprised him more than
                     anything else.
                  "Why, Marc, how came you here, tell me, I hardly know what to make of your
                     appearance, or where I am?"
                  
                  The negro, aroused by his master's voice, jumped up and displayed no small
                     gratification at the sound.
                  "Why, Massa Frank, I am really mose extrornary pleased to see you. About dark,
                     afore the moon get up last night, Massa Burnham bring me to the gate, where I
                     was let in and then find myself here."
                  "But I do not understand you. Did not Captain Burnham also enter the gates with
                     you?"
                  "No, no, sir. They tell me to come in, but not let him come. No, the flag ob
                     truce, or someting else as da call it, allow no American officer inside de
                     garrison ob Quebec. Oh! I wish to hebben we was back in Ole Virginny, dis war
                     don't agree wid any ob us, no how."
                  "But where am I, Marc? You at least, know something of my present
                     situation—tell me, where am I?"
                  "Well, as to dat, Massa Frank, I can't say dat I know e'zacly. A berry, yes
                     sir, a berry handsome young lady, gibs all de orders, and what she says all
                     mind mighty quick. She's here, only been an hour ago, I calculate, or
                     somewhere's like dat. Does you feel any ways kind ob hungry, Massa Frank? Cos,
                     if you do, here's plenty ob doctor's stuff."
                  "This is very strange," muttered Fairfax, between his teeth. "You say that
                     Captain Burnham was not allowed to come with you, and yet I perceive all my
                     baggage is in the room?"
                  "Yes, sir, Massa Frank, here it all is, sure enough, and good quarters, too,
                     and a nice young lady, when you see her, to wait on you, besides a lot ob
                     doctors, two, three or half a dozen ob dem," and the negro chuckled while
                     speaking, busy at the same time in looking over a trunk of wearing apparel.
                  Fairfax had, by this time, partially raised himself in his bed and looked
                     around the room. It was small, but well furnished, the furniture partaking more
                     of the French than the English style of the period. Everything was very neat,
                     extremely so, and the general appearance of the whole pleasant to the eye of an
                     invalid who sought for comfort.
                  Over the fire place hung a portrait, which evidently had not been painted with
                     much regard to the space it filled, for it extended on each side considerably
                     over the narrow chimney. The face was of surpassing beauty, the complexion a
                     clear blonde, and the features classically regular. The age of the female thus
                     represented on canvass, owing to the style of dress, could not be told
                     accurately, she might have been fifteen, or perhaps twenty, at any rate,
                     Fairfax thought as he gazed upon the portrait, he had never seen so beautiful a
                     "counterfeit presentment."
                  As he looked on the painting, he felt a strange dizziness come over him.
                     Gradually the countenance of the female assumed another expression, it was one
                     of commiseration, a feeling of sympathy, if it might be so termed, for one in
                     suffering, and while Fairfax was thus wondering, he swooned away.
                  He could not tell how long he had remained insensible, or what means had been
                     used for his recovery, when he found himself restored to reason. He was
                     supported in the arms of his faithful black servant Marc. On one side he beheld
                     the face of the good Bishop of Quebec, Doctor Manners; on the other, but gazing
                     intensely in his face, with the same look of sympathy that the picture had
                     presented to his fancy before he swooned, he saw the loveliest countenance that
                     ever met his gaze. Was it some vision of fancy, or was it reality? He looked on
                     the wall—there still hung the picture, but now devoid of all life or interest;
                     before him, he, the invalid—arose a breathing form of life, the
                     sight of which was far more healing to his wounds, than all the medicine of a
                     hundred professors of the healing art.
                  "Is this reality," said Fairfax, faintly, "or do I dream?" and he extended his
                     arms, as if he would grasp the beautiful form that bent partially over him.
                  Gently the fair girl withdrew herself, and the hands of the young officer
                     clasped vacancy.
                  "I knew it, I knew it—it is all a dream," and he closed his eyes, sinking back
                     again into the arms of his servant.
                  "He is too weak, father, to bear extra attendance, it annoys him. I think, at
                     any rate, I had better withdraw; to-morrow, perhaps, I can be of some service
                     to him."
                  "Perhaps so, my daughter. About an hour from this you can look in and see as to
                     the broths and little arrangements ordered by his physician. His wounds, his
                     surgeon tells me, are more weakening than dangerous."
                  Mary Manners cast one more look upon Fairfax, and withdrew.
                  Fairfax, although he had fallen into a half sleepy stupor, was fully aware of
                     what was passing around him. Through his brain flitted a conclusion, and he was
                     right. Too faint to speak he was certain that the girl who had stood at his
                     bedside, and bent over him, was no other than the Miss Manners, whom he had
                     heard his friend Burnham speak of so often, and with such animation.
                  He was no longer a prisoner, except in name. The chains of confinement only
                     bound his heart, not his limbs—he was free in all senses but one—he could die
                     in the presence of that fair girl—a willing victim. Love had come upon him with
                     a single bound, and there in that little apartment, breathing slowly and
                     painfully—his mind was wrapped in Elysium, while quivering pains yet darted
                     through his body.
                  While those thoughts still hung about him, he passed gradually into a deep and
                     heavy slumber. His memory, encircled by the thoughts of the present, went back
                     into the past, and then flew, as it were, away to the future. Oh, it was a
                     glorious dream, and to watch the varied expression of his face, as bright and
                     sunny thoughts passed through his half insensible mind, one would have thought
                     that angels breathed amid the air that hung around the sleeper.
                  The good Bishop, after watching for a time the improvement apparent in the
                     countenance of Fairfax, said to Marc:
                  "If he should awake, or there be any unfavorable symptoms, you have only to
                     step to my room, and I will at once return. In an hour's time, my good lad, I
                     will see that you are relieved by another watcher."
                  There was no need, however, of calling the Bishop within the time mentioned;
                     Fairfax gave no symptoms of being speedily awake, and the surgeon gave it as
                     his opinion that, under the circumstances, the wounds being all dressed, there
                     was no danger in the slumber; on the contrary, the symptoms were favorable—so
                     Fairfax was left to his dreams
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  THE JOURNEY OF KI.
                  When Ki left the camp, on his way with the communications from Arnold to
                     General Wooster, he knew but little of the route, although a map had been
                     placed in his hands, by which he was to be guided. For three days he managed
                     very well, taking all the by-routes, without interruption, and, on the evening
                     of the fourth day, he found himself within a day's journey of his
                     destination.
                  At a place called Doutray, he put up at a little hospice kept by one of the old
                     peasants, or habitans, a descendant of one of
                     the original settlers who came from France with the Baron de Champlain, a
                     century before. He was an odd-looking specimen of manhood, nearly seventy years
                     of age, small in stature, (as most of the Canadian French were and are,) but
                     with a most comical cast of countenance, and a twinkling about the eyes, that
                     gave a merry appearance to everything he did or said.
                  In the tones of his voice, or the pronunciation of his words, appeared but
                     little of the patois that so generally
                     belonged to his countrymen. In fact, he had been so much among the English
                     since the conquest of Canada, that he was looked upon by his French brethren as
                     very strongly inclined to the away of the British conquerors.
                  Ki's horse was very nearly used up when he reached the inn kept by Pierre
                     Montbrun, the man we have just described.
                  "Alight, my good friend, alight. Ah! but you are a personable man, fit for one
                     of the grenadiers of the great King Louis XIV., that my grandfather
                     served."
                  As he said this, he stood up by the side of Ki, who had dismounted, and the
                     contrast was somewhat ludicrous, for his head hardly rose above the elbow of
                     the Ensign.
                  "Why, there is some difference in our size, my little man, I believe," replied
                     Ki, humoring the joke—"but what you lack in length, you make up in years, and
                     age is always more honorable than size. But, come, I've got a good appetite,
                     and now for supper."
                  "Supper, supper—here, Antony, Jerome, take the gentleman's baggage—it don't
                     amount to much though—a pair of saddle-bags only."
                  Ki's baggage was quickly taken into the inn, his horse put in the stable, and a
                     supper placed before him. The sitting-room of the tavern was also the
                     eating-room, and here, in the presence of some half dozen people, he prepared
                     to take his meal.
                  There was something in the countenances of the lookers-on which displeased him.
                     They were of the lower orders of the people of the country, and a certain
                     suspicion lurked about all they said or did.
                  "They say there is a rumor that the Yankees have taken Quebec," said one to
                     another.
                  "That I don't believe," was the reply, "the Yankees ain't got men enough to do
                     that, and the Canadians love King George too well to allow it, any way."
                  "Oh! what a pretty set of politicians ye all are," said the host, interfering,
                     "didn't I hear you shout loud enough for the Yankees, when their general,
                     Montgomery, marched towards Quebec?"
                  "Oh, Mister Pierre, we all know what you are, well enough. Anything for your
                     interest, Congress or King George alike, particularly when a stranger is by
                     that you think is for Congress." This was said by one of the party, glancing at
                     Ki as he spoke.
                  Ki looked up, when the man had said his say, and deliberately laid down his
                     knife and fork. "Whether I am for King George or Congress, it matters but
                     little," said he, "to you or any one else. If you feel inclined to quarrel with
                     me, do it in a manly way, give a reason or a cause, and I will not be backward
                     to avow who or what I am."
                  "Come, come, Louis Blanc," said the host, to the man who had particularly
                     addressed himself to Ki, "you are ever for making a quarrel with strangers.
                     Now, this is my inn, and either leave it or keep silent, recollect that."
                  The man made no answer, but gave a significant shrug to his companions, and
                     shortly after left the room, followed by them, leaving Pierre Montbrun and his
                     guest alone. No sooner had the door closed than the host went up to Ki, and
                     said:
                  "You are in danger. I got news a few hours before you reached here, of the
                     defeat of Montgomery. No one knows it in the village. You are on your way to
                     Montreal, with letters for General Wooster, I am told. Never fear of me, I like
                     the cause and am sorry that the Americans have been defeated. Go at once to
                     bed—before daylight, I will awake you, and you must start on your journey, for
                     if these men you saw to-night, had my information, they would shoot you down as
                     you rode away. Not a word, go in there and lie down. I will wake you at the
                     right time."
                  The honest old Canadian pushed Ki into a little bed-chamber, where the latter
                     speedily availed himself of the proffered slumber. Before daylight, his host
                     came into the room, and said:
                  "Your horse is saddled and at the door. Mount at once; you will have two hours
                     start of any one that may pursue, and don't forget old Pierre Montbrun."
                  Ki expressed his gratitude, mounted, and before night, reached Montreal,
                     delivering his despatches to Gen. Wooster.
                  It was with great grief, the latter received the intelligence of the disastrous
                     fight, which he communicated to Col. Warner, at the head of Lake Champlain, by the following letter, now
                     re-published, for the first time, from the original, after a lapse of more than
                     seventy years:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "MONTREAL, Jan. 6th, 1776.
                              
                              "DEAR SIR:—With the greatest distress of mind, I now sit to
                                 acquaint you of the event of an unfortunate attack made upon
                                 Quebec, between the hours of four and six, of the morning of the
                                 31st December—unfortunate indeed, for in it fell our brave General
                                 Montgomery, his aid-de-camp, McPherson, Captain 
                                    Cheesman
                                    Cheeseman
                                 , Captain Hendricks, of the riflemen, and two or three
                                 subaltern officers, and between sixty and one hundred privates, the
                                 number not certainly known—and about three hundred officers and
                                 soldiers taken prisoners, among whom are Lieutenant Col. Green,
                                 Major Bigelow, Major Meigs, and a number of Captains and inferior
                                 officers. Colonel Arnold was wounded in the leg, in the beginning
                                 of the action, as was Major Ogden, in the shoulder, and brought off
                                 to the general hospital. I have not time to give you all the
                                 particulars, but thus much will serve to show you that, in
                                 consequence of this defeat, our prospects are rendered very
                                 dubious, and, unless we can quickly be reinforced, perhaps this may
                                 be fatal, not only to us who are stationed here, but also to the
                                 colonies in general—the frontiers, especially, greatly, very
                                 greatly, depend upon keeping possession of this country.
                              "You know, as well as any man, the temper, disposition and
                                 character of the Canadians. They are not persevering in adversity,
                                 they are not to be depended upon, but, like the savages, are
                                 exceeding fond of 
                                    chosing
                                    choosing
                                  the strongest party. Add to this, our enemies in this
                                 country, of whom there are very many, use every method to excite
                                 the Canadians against us. The clergy refuse absolution to all who
                                 have shown themselves our friends, and preach damnation to those
                                 who will not take up arms against us, and tell them that now it is
                                 not too late, that we are but a handful of men, &c. I have sent
                                 an express to General Schuyler, General Washington, and the
                                 Congress, but you know how far they have to go, and that it is very
                                 uncertain how long it will be before we can have relief from them.
                                 Therefore, let me beg of you to collect immediately as many men as
                                 you can—five, or six, or seven hundred, if it can be done, and,
                                 somehow or other, get into this country, and stay with us till we
                                 can get relief from the colonies. You are sensible we have
                                 provisions of all kinds enough, and the weather in this country is
                                 far from being so frightful as many have imagined. You will see
                                 that proper officers and soldiers are appointed under you, and both
                                 officers and soldiers shall be paid, as other continental troops.
                                 It will be well for your men to set out as fast as they can be
                                 collected—not so much matter whether together or not, but let them
                                 set out by ten, twenty, thirty, forty, or fifty, as they can be
                                 collected, for it must have a good effect upon the minds of the
                                 Canadians to see succors coming in. You will be good enough to send
                                 copies of this letter to the people below. I can't but think our
                                 friends will make a push to get into this country. I am confident
                                 you will not disappoint my most fervent wish and expectation of
                                 seeing you here, with your men, in a short time. Now, sir, is the
                                 time to distinguish yourself, and obtain the applause of your ever
                                 grateful countrymen, or your distressed friends in Canada, and your
                                 sincere friend, &c.,
                              
                                 Signed,
                                 "DAVID WOOSTER."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  We must now pass over a period of some months, and a change of scene, from the
                     place mentioned at the close of our last chapter.
                  Early in May, a large number of English men-of-war and transports arrived at
                     Quebec with numerous troops, and the Americans were forced to give up the
                     siege, and retreat to the neighborhood of Montreal, from which, after a number
                     of desperate actions, they were driven to Lake Champlain and Crown Point, where
                     General Sullivan was in command. Throughout the various fights which took
                     place, Arnold proved himself a brave and gallant soldier. The troops from
                     England were the nucleus of Burgoyne's army, with which he was to penetrate
                     through the State of New York, and reduce "to the subjection of their natural
                     monarch, George the Third," the people of the North.
                  The place to which we now take our readers is the city of New York. The period,
                     the early part of June, 1776. The British troops, under General Howe, had
                     evacuated Boston the March preceding, and General Washington immediately
                     entered the town, with drums beating and colors flying, after the British had
                     been blockaded on the land side for a period of nearly a year.
                  General Howe had caused it generally to be understood, when he went on board
                     the fleet with his troops, that he intended to sail for New York, and take
                     possession of that city. As soon as Washington received this information, he
                     immediately despatched three brigades, under Putnam, by land to Providence and
                     New London, from whence they embarked, and sailed, by way of the Sound, for New
                     York. General Howe, instead of going to New York, sailed with the fleet to
                     Halifax, to join his brother, Admiral Lord Howe.
                  The prisoners taken at Quebec still remained there, no exchange having been
                     effected. In the early part of the spring, Burnham had been recalled to the
                     military family of the Commander-in-Chief, by express orders from Washington
                     himself.
                  The precise building to which we would convey our readers, is still standing at
                     the lower corner of Broadway, now called "The Washington," originally built by
                     Captain Kennedy, of the British navy, for his private mansion. The gardens
                     extended from the water's edge, the North or Hudson river flowing directly up
                     to Greenwich street. There have been many disputes among city antiquaries as to
                     the person who originally caused this house to be built, some contending that
                     the father of Lord Sterling, (so called from courtesy,) Mr. Alexander ander, an
                     eminent lawyer, caused it to be erected, and, although not a matter of much
                     consequence, we know that Captain Kennedy, was the original owner and
                     builder.
                  This house is now as perfect as when erected, though it should be understood
                     that a portion, facing the Battery, is of modern origin. To New Yorkers, this
                     house should be ever dear from association. At the time the Continentals took
                     possession of the city, in 1776, Gen. Putnam made it his head-quarters.
                     Washington, for a time, stopped there, during the same campaign. When Sir
                     William Howe entered the city, it was his residence, then Sir Henry Clinton's,
                     and other British generals, and finally, the residence of Sir Guy Carleton, the
                     last British commander in the United States.
                  In the parlor of this building, at the time or which we write, were assembled a
                     number of Washington's immediate staff, as well as the great man himself, Reed,
                     Burnham, Colfax, and, last, not least, Ki Lane. The latter had been promoted
                     from an ensigncy to the honorable station of a Lieutenant in the Life
                     Guard.
                  Standing in one corner of the room, under the guard of a Sergeant, was a
                     soldier, in the well-known uniform of the Guards. The expression of the
                     countenance of this man was that of great dejection, and, as he occasionally
                     looked up, he withdrew at once his glance when an eye was turned upon him. This
                     man had been arrested upon an accusation of intending to poison
                     the Commander in-Chief! The facts combined in this chapter are historical.
                     Washington, after examining some documents on the table before him, turned to
                     the prisoner and said:
                  "Hickey, I am sorry, for your own sake, that the proofs are so strong against
                     you. I cannot understand what motive could induce a man like yourself, upon
                     whom I have placed so much confidence, to enter into a deliberate arrangement
                     to take my life. Have you ever been treated otherwise than well by me?"
                  The countenance of the prisoner became deadly pale as he replied, in trembling
                     tones:
                  "No, your Excellency, I never have."
                  "Who, then, were your instigators?"
                  "A woman, sir."
                  "A woman? Who and what is she?"
                  "A very bad one, sir, truly; but for her I never should have thought of it. She
                     lives, or did live, in Queen street, not far from Maiden Lane."
                  "Were you offered any reward for taking my life?"
                  "A thousand guineas, sir, if successful, with a full pardon, and a grant of
                     land in the city, and the woman to become my wife."
                  "How could a woman of such a character obtain a thousand guineas and offers of
                     land, to compensate you for committing murder?"
                  "I had every reason, your Excellency, to believe her; she never deceived me
                     yet, in anything she promised."
                  "Is the woman married?"
                  "She is a widow, sir, or the reputed widow of a Sergeant of the twenty-seventh
                     British regiment. I say it, to my shame, sir, we have been living together as
                     man and wife, and in that way she acquired the power over me to favor the
                     wicked plan."
                  At a signal from the General, Burnham wrote down the answers given by the
                     prisoner.
                  "Has this woman left the city, to your knowledge, Hickey?" said Washington.
                  "Not to my knowledge, your Excellency; but she is full of cunning, and, if
                     arrested, may deny anything I say. I can't say she knows I'm arrested, but, as
                     it is now two days since I've seen her, she may suspect something."
                  "Now tell me her name and precise residence, or where she lived when you last
                     saw her. You may as well make an honest confession."
                  "I will do so, your Excellency, come what will. The number in Queen street I
                     can't say, with certainty, but the house is a small one, the front of Dutch
                     brick, and stands two doors from Maiden Lane, on the left hand side as you go
                     from Wall street."
                  "That is noted down," said Washington, after a pause, "now give me her
                     name."
                  "She goes by two names, your Excellency. Some call her Peggy Mortimer, others
                     Mrs. Watkins."
                  A close observer would have seen that Burnham and Ki Lane exchanged meaning
                     glances, as the prisoner spoke the name of Watkins.
                  "Is she a young or old woman, Hickey?"
                  "Not more than twenty-three, sir, and very, handsome. She is a woman, your
                     Excellency, better educated than I am, and as fascinating as
                     smooth-tongued."
                  The prisoner said this with a deep sigh.
                  "I shall ask you but a few more questions, Hickey, and you can retire with the
                     guard. Has this woman, this Mrs. Watkins, you called her, to your knowledge,
                     any communication with the leading tories, or anybody in authority in New
                     York?"
                  The prisoner picked his nails and interlocked his fingers, as if in some doubt
                     whether to answer the question, and then, after the pause of a moment,
                     said:
                  "I believe she did say, once, that Mayor Matthews was her friend"
                  "Mayor Matthews! This is startling, indeed. Did you ever see him at her
                     residence?"
                  "I saw, your Excellency, a man wrapped up in a cloak, leaving the house one
                     night when I went in, that I took to be him, but Mrs. Watkins told me the man
                     was her uncle."
                  "Do you know whether she has relations in the city at all, and is she American
                     by birth?"
                  "Nothing more, your Excellency, than what she herself told me; her tongue would
                     beguile Satan himself. She said her uncle had been a Commissary in the British
                     army, and had resigned after making a fortune, and lived at his country seat,
                     three miles from the city. I should think, your Excellency, that she was
                     English, for she has the look of the women of that country, and, I now
                     remember, she said she was born in the city of Bristol."
                  "Whenever you have been to her house, Hickey, who have you seen there? You say you lived together as man and wife,
                     also, how often did you get leave of absence, from your Captain, at night, and
                     what reason did you give for asking it?"
                  "I rarely saw any one there, your Excellency. The outside door was locked, and
                     I always rapped, when a black girl came and let me in. I told Captain Colfax
                     that I was married, and that's the way I was off duty so often at nights. He'll
                     tell you, your Excellency, whether I tell the truth or not as to that."
                  Young Colfax confirmed Hickey's story. Believing him to be married, he had
                     often given him leave of absence at night.
                  "And you say that the reward for my murder was to have been a thousand guineas,
                     some land, and the hand of such a woman. Ah! Hickey, the benefit
                     you would have experienced by my murder would have proved trifling indeed. My
                     station, it is true, is high and important, but there are others to take my
                     place, if I should be cut off, far more competent. Sergeant, remove the
                     prisoner, and see that no communication takes place with him, except by my
                     written order."
                  Hickey was taken from the room, under guard, and Washington then proceeded to
                     give his instructions for the arrest of Mr. Matthews, the Mayor, and the
                     woman.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  A terrible storm of wind and rain was raging. At times, bright flashes of
                     lightning lit up the whole city, and then followed terrible peals of thunder,
                     as if all of "heaven's artillery" was fired at once. The rain fell in deluging
                     torrents, and the wind, warm, though fierce, swept along the streets in fitful
                     gusts, causing unlocked doors and shutters to bang with startling violence,
                     alarming the traveller who journeyed on amid the tempest. The hours, too, were
                     late—near midnight—adding still more terror to the timid who were abroad in the
                     storm. It was amid this gale and storm that three persons approached the house,
                     whose interior and inmates we describe to our readers.
                  In a room in the second story sat a man and woman. The room was well furnished
                     for the period, and upon a table in the centre were the remnants of a rather
                     luxurious supper. A large bottle, half filled with liquor of some sort,
                     probably wine, stood, also, upon the table, and two glasses were within
                     reaching distance, upon a small stand near by.
                  The woman was young, and had evidently been very beautiful; in fact, she was
                     still so, but there was a brazen stamp upon her features, that to many would
                     have been disagreeable, to others disgusting, particularly when these features
                     were under the influence of anger. A woman, once fallen, loses all the fine
                     expression of countenance that so becomes her when virtuous. A fallen woman
                     indeed was Peggy Mortimer, otherwise, Mrs. Watkins.
                  The personal appearance of her companion need not be described, our readers
                     have heard that before.
                  "And so, my pretty Peg, with the face of a woman, and all her cunning, combined
                     with the mind of a man, you think you have got this soldier completely under
                     your control?"
                  "In truth I have, Dick, completely so. He would do anything at my beck or nod.
                     In two days, only two days, and the rebel Washington will be no longer the
                     leader of the armies of the Continentals, as they call themselves. It is
                     strange that my soldier has not been here for two days, but it sometimes
                     happens that he is on duty and cannot come. He will be here to-night, Dick,
                     certainly, and you, of course, must not be seen. I will arrange matters so as
                     to get rid of him, immediately after obtaining full information as to his acts,
                     and how he is to administer the poison."
                  "You must act carefully and certain, Peg. You know I am here in New York, at
                     the risk of my life. I have acted as spy all the way from Quebec, and if once
                     recognized in this hot-bed of rebel rogues, I should hang like a dog,
                     particularly if that long-legged and long-armed rebel named Lane should get
                     hold of me."
                  "As long as you are in my house, Dick Watkins, you are safe. Good heavens! what
                     a terrible peal of thunder that was! I don't know whether this fool Hickey, who
                     I am using only as a puppet, will make his appearance on such a night as this
                     or not. If he does come soon, why then, Dick, I will see you safe to bed, and
                     we will dream of revenge on that villain who has had such bitter control over
                     our destinies, particularly over mine, Major Adair."
                  "Yes, yes, Peg, I have as deep reasons to hate him as you have, and you know
                     it. But never mind, girl, all will come right in the end, and those who only
                     know me now as Sergeant Dick Watkins, will be surprised to hear of my real
                     name. But tell me, Peg, for you should have no secrets from me,
                     seeing that you now and then bear my name,—is this young Corporal, this boy, of
                     the rebel general's Life Guards, really in love with you?"
                  "In love, Dick?—ha! ha! what a question? Did you ever know Peg Mortimer do
                     otherwise than make the man in love with her, upon whom she had designs?"
                  "Why, yes, I have known such a case; Major Adair, for instance; though at the
                     time I speak of, I believe he was but a Captain. Do I not tell the truth?"
                  "Ah! indeed you do, Dick," said the fallen and degraded woman—for degraded she
                     was; "you speak the truth there, without any doubt. But I live for revenge, and
                     when it falls, bitter indeed will it be—bitter, bitter, bitter."
                  She placed her hands to her head for a moment, and her eyes roamed wildly
                     around the room.
                  Watkins watched her with the glance of one to whom her pain seemed
                     a pleasure, and he spoke with a careless, yet fiendish tone.
                  "I suppose you know the Major is to be married soon?"
                  "Married!" she echoed back, with terrible vehemence, rising at the same
                     time.
                  "Why, yes, Peg, married. Is there anything strange in that? Don't get excited A
                     man will get married, you know, girl, when it suits him, that is, if the woman
                     is willing."
                  "Married! to whom?"
                  "To a beautiful girl, but as full of rebel feeling as a bee-hive of honey. The
                     daughter of the late new Bishop of Canada—her name is Manners."
                  "Married, indeed—married," she said, with bitter emphasis; "when Reginald
                     Adair, the ruiner of my soul and body, dares to marry, then are his hours, nay,
                     moments, numbered. A beautiful girl, you say, Richard Watkins, a beautiful
                     girl. I was once called beautiful; perhaps I might still have been so but for
                        him. Ah! I will be revenged if I have to call up the spirits of
                     the infernal regions to help me!"
                  As she finished the sentence, a bright flash of lightning illuminated the
                     apartment through the closely-curtained window, shedding an unearthly glare
                     around. Though transient, it seemed so to fall upon the features of the unhappy
                     woman, that Watkins shuddered when he beheld their expression.
                  The flash of lightning was followed by repeated peals of thunder that fairly
                     shook the building to its foundation. As they died away, peal after peal
                     growing fainter and fainter, there was heard a heavy knocking at the street
                     door of the house, between the intervals of the storm.
                  "Hark!" said Watkins, when he had recovered from the effects of the frail
                     woman's speech, which, with the thunder, had stupified him. "Hark! there is a
                     knocking; recover yourself, Peg, recover yourself. This is no time to think of
                     such things as revenge. Be yourself now, and the other will come certain."
                  "True, true, Dick; I am again in my senses. The knocking must be from Hickey.
                     Do not move from this room; I will go to the door myself. Be quiet, and do not
                     stir—for there may be danger."
                  Taking the lamp, and leaving Watkins in darkness, she went down stairs.
                  The knocking continued with great fury, and Watkins went to the door to listen.
                     Voices he heard below, not two but many, and he could hear amid the tumult of
                     the storm, demands for instant admission. The villain, cool as he usually was,
                     trembled with fear. There was no apparent chance of escape for him. He could
                     not leap from the window, for then he would fall among his foes, and his
                     capture prove certain.
                  Suddenly Peg rushed into the room, exclaiming:
                  "Save yourself, Watkins, there is something wrong outside. I do not hear
                     Hickey's voice, and the party are now breaking down the door."
                  "Where, where shall I go?" he said, wildly.
                  "The chimney, the chimney—there has been no fire in it for months. Quick,
                     quick—there goes the street-door," and it was distinctly heard to give way with
                     a heavy crash.
                  The chimney was one of those old-fashioned ones, which allow a good-sized man
                     to climb with ease. Watkins, without hesitation, made for this channel of
                     escape, and, being naturally active, soon hid his body from sight by ascending
                     the interior.
                  Scarcely had he done so, before Ki Lane rushed into the room, followed by a
                     couple of soldiers.
                  "Secure this woman, men," he said. "Ha! her accomplice has escaped—see, his hat
                     is on the table—not so cunning after all. There is the chimney—that must have
                     been his way to get off."
                  He seized the lamp, which Peg still held in her hand, though she herself was in
                     the grasp of the soldiers, and held it so that he could look up the
                     chimney.
                  "Ha! ha! I have you; come down, come down," he said, "or I will smoke you out
                     like a woodchuck, whoever you may be."
                  No signs were given of descent. Ki, without hesitation, rushed to a bed which
                     stood in the room, and dragged it to the fire-place.
                  "Once more, come down, I say," he exclaimed, at the full pitch of his
                     voice.
                  There was still no sign.
                  "Then be your fate of your own seeking."
                  As he was about to apply the lamp to the bed, a blinding flash of lightning
                     streamed into the room, followed by a sulphurous smell, and a crashing sound of
                     thunder, that stunned all in the apartment. The house had been struck by
                     lightning, and was in flames!
                  So sudden and fierce did the flames burst around the party in the room, after
                     the shock from the heavens, that Ki could only give orders to the men to take
                     out the woman, and he quickly followed.
                  When they reached the street, the rain was still pouring in torrents, but the
                     blazing light from the burning building illuminated all around. The beating of
                     drums was heard, for the city was under martial law, and soldiers and citizens
                     soon came running in all directions, some thinking the British had entered the
                     city, and set fire to it. In the times of which we write, there was but one
                     fire engine in New York. Every householder was compelled by law to keep a
                     number of leathern buckets in his house, registered with his name, and the
                     number of his dwelling.
                  At fires, there were certain officers, partaking of the duties of the present
                     engineers, who formed the citizens in lines to the nearest pumps and wells, and
                     sometimes to the river. Two lines were formed, facing inward, and, as one side
                     passed up the full buckets, emptying their contents in the engine, the other
                     line passed them down empty. When the engine was full, orders were given to
                     play upon the fire! The simplicity of leather hose was never thought of.
                  It is hardly to be expected that fires were extinguished very easily by such
                     simple modes, but then they seldom occurred, and the damage generally did not
                     amount to a great deal. There were no three-story buildings in those days,
                     ready to tumble down almost with their own weight, filled with combustible
                     matter; nor were stoves and coal-fires then in extensive vogue, to burn down
                     whole blocks.
                  Ki's first thought, after he reached the street, was to look up at the chimney
                     of the dwelling he had just left. It
                     seemed, however, as if the lightning, when it struck, must have knocked down
                     the top of the chimney, for it could not be seen above the blazing roof of the
                     house.
                  "The fellow, whoever he was, and I hope it was that villain, Watkins, must be
                     dead enough by this time, or else he can bear fire and smoke like a
                     salamander," muttered Ki to himself, as he looked at the burning rafters.
                  "Where are we to take this woman, Ensign?" asked one of the soldiers who held
                     Peg, as she was called; "she is strong as a she-bear, and howls like a
                     wolf."
                  "Yes, you are a couple of brave Yankees, indeed, to capture a woman. Out upon
                     you, rebel vagabonds; I'll have you to know I'm a British lady, scoundrels,"
                     she screamed.
                  "Then take this British lady to the guard-house, where she can receive the
                     attention due to her dignity."
                  Peg was taken off, remonstrating violently at being so rudely arrested, and
                     screaming to know the reason as long as within hearing. The crowd of citizens
                     and soldiers by this time had increased to a large number, and commenced
                     operations to put out the fire. Although it was Ki's duty to have gone
                     immediately to the guard-house, after arresting the woman, he still lingered
                     around, for he felt a curiosity to ascertain if the man who ascended the
                     chimney had been smothered by the smoke and flames, and examine his body, for
                     he had a vague belief the person was Watkins. The house was on one side bounded
                     by an alleyway of some width, joining the next building, and leading into the
                     yards of both—it was closed by a door. No attempt had been yet made to open it,
                     although it gave a better communication to the fire blazing in the rear.
                  Making his way through the crowd, Ki approached the passageway, and attempted
                     to open the door, but it was locked or fastened inside. Asking a citizen for an
                     axe, he deliberately broke down the gate and went up the alleyway. A rush of
                     flame and smoke from one side of the building, just after he went in, prevented
                     his being followed by the crowd, who had pressed on for that purpose.
                  The yard, when he entered it, was comparatively dark, for the fire seemed to
                     have cat its way inside more to the front of the building, the smoke curling
                     and enveloping the back of the house. The yard was of considerable size, not
                     one of the little pieces of ground so styled now-a-days, and part of it had
                     once been cultivated as a garden. To be certain the man had not escaped, he
                     walked around slowly, for the purpose of searching every part thoroughly.
                  He might have been ten minutes thus engaged, without discovering any trace or
                     sign of the object of his search, when, looking up, as he stood by an angle of
                     the wall of the burning building, he saw a head cautiously peep over the fence
                     of the adjoining house. The hair was scorched and burned, and the countenance
                     so blackened with smoke, Ki thought it belonged to a negro.
                  At first, the person, whoever it might be, to whom the head belonged, did not
                     perceive Ki, but, as the latter stepped forward to get a better glance, the
                     head disappeared with wonderful celerity. As quick as he could, he opened the
                     door that led into the neighboring yard or garden, but, coming out of the
                     brightness of the flame, his eye could not at once take in the whole extent of
                     the space, and part of it was in shadow.
                  He went forward a few steps and called out, in a loud voice, "Who was the
                     person looking over the fence just now." There was no response to his call,
                     and, determined to ascertain who the man might be, he advanced quickly into the
                     garden. In his haste he fell over a bench that he had not perceived, and before
                     be could recover himself, some one rushed by him with such rapidity that, when
                     he gained his feet, the person had got out of the gateway, beyond sight.
                  Forth went Ki in pursuit; darting through the door into the next yard, he
                     passed down the alley-way into the street, and found the crowd in great
                     commotion. A man, they said, black with smoke and coal dust, his clothes half
                     burnt off, and without a hat, had come down the alley-way like lightning,
                     looking so much like the infernal spirit himself, that the crowd made way right
                     and left, without hesitation, as he fled on.
                  This was enough for Ki; he now felt certain that the man concealed in the
                     dwelling was no other than Watkins, and that fortune had again favored his
                     cunning. It took Ki so long to get through the crowd, which had now mingled
                     again in wild confusion, that he found, when he got beyond the edge of the
                     living mass, all traces of the fugitive were lost—one saying that he went up
                     this street, another, down that, and a third, that he did not go either
                     way.
                  Chagrined that so desperate and wicked a fellow had escaped, he proceeded to
                     the guard-house, where he found Peg, alias
                     Mrs. Watkins, who had been properly taken care of, and treated with due
                     civility, she having been placed in a room where was a bed and fire, under the
                     charge of the sturdy wife of a soldier, and no chance of her escape. He then
                     proceeded to head-quarters, late as it was, to report his success.
                  At the same hour that Ki had been dispatched to arrest the woman and all in her
                     house, Burnham had proceeded in another direction, on a somewhat similar duty.
                     He was accompanied by an orderly and one soldier. His route was up Broadway, or
                     rather, as it was more generally called then, the Broadway. The
                     reader will remember, as before stated, the night was one of terrible storm and
                     tempest, and the gale seemed to spend its fury through the wide street which
                     they journeyed.
                  "This is almost as bad as Quebec, orderly," said the soldier to the sergeant,
                     as they walked behind Burnham. "I haven't seen such a storm, I don't know
                     when."
                  "Yes, it's a storm, true enough, but then, it's only rain and wind, not snow
                     and sleet, sufficient to freeze a man to death, who stands on guard an hour, as
                     occurred two or three times before the cursed place where we lost so many brave
                     fellows. We are only getting a little soaked now,—that's all."
                  They had by this time reached "the Fields," or common, now the Park, which was
                     then an open piece of green sward, with but few dwellings around it, covered
                     here and there with trees, and scrub brushes, a wild and desolate place at
                     night. There came a streak of lightning that for an instant brought the whole
                     scene to view, as far as the eye could reach, fields, hills, trees, and the
                     scattered houses passed in sight, and then all was dark.
                  As the heavy thunder followed the flash, accompanied by a still stronger deluge
                     of rain, the three recoiled before it instantly.
                  "That was a heavy peal, boys," said Burnham, "but not half so dangerous as the
                     fire from a park of artillery. But see, what light is that below us?"
                  "It must be a building on fire, Captain," replied the sergeant, after looking
                     in the direction indicated.
                  "Yes, struck by that flash of lightning that almost blinded us, an instant ago.
                     But we must push on, the path that leads to our duty is straight before
                     us."
                  For the space of ten minutes they went on as fast as the darkness and the
                     necessity of picking out the road, step by step, permitted, and their progress
                     was much slower than Burnham wished.
                  "We should have brought lanterns with us, Sergeant, and we should have reached
                     our destination ere this; the—".
                  The sentence was stilled by a loud scream of one in sudden and mortal agony,
                     not far off—then came a loud cry of "murder!" and all was still. Footsteps were
                     next heard close by, and some one passed directly across their front, but so
                     sudden had all happened, amid the surrounding darkness, that no time was given
                     to arrest the person, whoever he might be. A faint flash of lightning again
                     gleamed forth, and the figure of a man was seen for an instant dashing across
                     the road, in the direction of a large mansion, not a hundred yards off. The
                     soldier, who was armed with a musket, raised his gun and fired, and all thought
                     a slight scream followed the report of the musket.
                  "You did well to fire, Andrew, although without orders. The scoundrel looked,
                     by the instant glance I got of him, like an Indian, and the dwelling he seemed
                     making for is the residence of the Mayor of the city, who I am sent to arrest.
                     I hope this ruffian is hit, but first let us look after the man who cried
                     murder. I think he must be a sentinel from one of the new regiments that
                     reached the city from the east to-day."
                  Retracing their steps, they could hear slight groanings, and, guided by the
                     sound, they reached the wounded man. As Burnham expected, he was a sentinel
                     from an eastern regiment, on the extreme outpost, and, when lifted up, was able
                     to state that, hearing a man running in the direction of his post, he
                     challenged him twice, but, receiving no answer, he took aim in the direction of
                     the man, as well as he could judge through the darkness. His gun merely
                     flashed, but the man had stumbled and fallen, and, as he advanced to seize him,
                     the fellow partly rose, stabbing him at the same time in the groin terribly,
                     and making his escape.
                  The sound of the musket, fired by the soldier with Burnham, had aroused the
                     guard, and a file of men were seen approaching, with lantern. The customary
                     challenge and answer were given, Burnham having ascertained from the wounded
                     soldier the countersign. A brief explanation ensued, and the officer in
                     command, after directing part of his men to carry the sentinel to the hospital,
                     and stationing a new guard, put himself, with the rest, under the command of
                     Burnham, to go in pursuit of the villain, who was seen to fly in the direction
                     of the Mayor's house, and also to arrest the latter.
                  The ground being soft, they were soon upon the track of the fellow, his
                     footsteps being deeply impressed on the road; and, from the prints made, they
                     appeared to show that he could have had but one shoe or boot on, as the marks
                     of toes were plainly visible from the stamp of the right foot. Blood was also
                     found, in drops, here and there, near the spot from whence the soldier with
                     Burnham fired, which they traced on, when, suddenly, both footsteps and blood
                     disappeared altogether.
                  "This is strange," said Burnham, looking carefully around. "Here all traces
                     end; neither footsteps nor blood are discernible beyond this spot."
                  "It must have been the devil himself," replied the Orderly; "and, if Andrews'
                     gun was loaded with a silver bullet, the thing is clear—the fellow has taken to
                     his wings, after being hit."
                  "A clever idea of yours, Orderly," said Burnham, "and very plausibly carried
                     out, with the exception of the silver bullet; for, I think, it would have
                     puzzled many officers, as well as men, to have found that weight of silver in
                     their pockets, for a month back. But there is no need of further speculation as
                     to this matter, now; we must on to the Mayor's house, which is near-by, and
                     arrest him."
                  The party proceeded no great distance further, when they halted in front of Mr.
                     Matthews' residence. Burnham directed sentries to take post so as to surround
                     the house, and prevent the escape of any of its inmates; this done, he ascended
                     a flight of steps, and knocked at the door of the mansion. For a long time
                     there was no answer from within, or any apparent stir of the inmates. At
                     length, getting somewhat angry, the young officer was about to give orders to
                     break open the door, when an upper window was raised, and the voice of a man
                     was heard, asking:
                  "What is the cause of my being disturbed at this late hour?"
                  "I presume I reply to Mayor Matthews, sir," answered Burnham.
                  "Yes, that is my title."
                  "Then I have to request civilly that you open your doors to a Continental
                     officer, who bears a message for you from the Commander-in-Chief."
                  "This seems a strange hour to send for me. Tell General Washington I will call at
                     head-quarters in the morning."
                  "My orders, sir, are imperative, that you should proceed thither at once. But,
                     perhaps, if you will open your door, and permit me to explain matters inside,
                     you will understand things better than parleying on the outside."
                  "I will call up one of my servants, and let you in."
                  This was said in no pleasant tone, and the window was shut down with
                     considerable violence. In about five minutes' time, a black servant opened the
                     door, led the two officers into a handsome parlor, and directed their attention
                     to a sideboard, where stood several decanters of liquors and tumblers, and
                     withdrew, saying:
                  "Massa Matthews be down 'mediately, gentlemen."
                  Of course, the officers did not hesitate to avail themselves of a taste of the
                     fine Madeira of the Mayor, he being quite noted as a bon vivant.
                  
                  Full half an hour had elapsed when the Mayor made his appearance. He was a
                     large man, quite corpulent, with the rubicund face of one who lived well, and
                     upon the best. The expression of his countenance was that of a sensualist,
                     without much activity of character, beyond the gratification of his own
                     desires. He was dressed in a loose morning-gown, night-cap and slippers. He
                     bowed politely as he entered the room.
                  "Your servant, gentlemen—have you refreshed yourselves?"
                  He was replied to affirmatively.
                  "Then excuse me for doing the same. The night air is wet and chilly, and I
                     sometimes have a touch of the rheumatism, when the air is damp, though my
                     doctor would try to make it the gout, but that's impossible."
                  He filled a tumbler nearly to the brim with wine, drank it at a toss, and,
                     turning round, said:
                  "Now, gentlemen, I am prepared for business."
                  Burnham drew from his pocket Washington's order, under his own signature,
                     directing him to arrest the Mayor, and take him to head-quarters as soon as
                     possible. Mr. Matthews looked somewhat surprised when he read the orders.
                  "Can't you tell me, sir, what this means, or give me a clew to this arrest at
                     such an hour?"
                  "A soldier's duty is to obey orders. I can answer no questions, and trust you
                     will find no inconvenience in accompanying me at once," replied Burnham.
                  "Why, it rains out, terribly. Have you any way to convey me to head-quarters,
                     so that I shall not get wet?"
                  "Nothing but a file of soldiers, Mr. Mayor," was the prompt reply.
                  "Humph—soldiers,—then I suppose I must go. Here, Sam, Sam," he
                     called from the parlor door.
                  The same black who had ushered in the officers made his appearance, and was
                     directed by Mr. Matthews to have the coachman get the horses in the coach
                     immediately, for he had to go to the city at once. He then retired to dress
                     himself suitably, telling the officers to make themselves at home.
                  In something less than an hour's time, Burnham, the Mayor and the orderly, were
                     seated in the coach, the soldier, Andrew, riding with the coachman, on their
                     way to head-quarters. The officer who had aided with the guard, returned to his
                     regiment with his men. Upon the arrival of Burnham and the Mayor at
                     head-quarters, it was found that Washington had just retired to rest, although
                     near morning, so arduous were the labors of the great man at that period.
                  Burnham saw that his prisoner was comfortably accommodated and guarded, and
                     then he went to his apartment to snatch an hour or two of sleep before making
                     his report in the morning.
                  About ten o'clock the next day, the Mayor was carried before a Court Martial,
                     then sitting at head-quarters. The President was Putnam, and his associates,
                     Greene, Gates, Mifflin and Colonel Glover.
                  "Mr. Matthews, do you know that man, or did you ever see him to your knowledge,
                     before?"
                  The Mayor looked at the man pointed out. He was dressed in the uniform of a
                     soldier, (it was Hickey,) and answered, after a careful scrutiny, "I do not
                     know him at all, I never saw him before. May I ask, General Putnam, the reason
                     of my being summoned before this Court Martial so singularly."
                  "That you shall know in due time. Orderly, take out the prisoner for the
                     present, and bring in the woman."
                  In a few minutes, the orderly returned with Peg, or perhaps we had better call
                     her Mrs. Watkins, the term being more polite. The Mayor changed color when he
                     saw her, and the woman gave a toss of her head, with a brazen smile of
                     recognition.
                  "Do you know this woman, Mr. Matthews?"
                  "I do, General, I must own to that."
                  "Are you well acquainted with her, and have you visited her often?"
                  "Spare me somewhat," he replied, "for the sake of my family, I do know the
                     woman, and have visited her frequently."
                  "Orderly, you can take the lady to her room for the present."
                  Mrs. Watkins gave a loud "Ha! ha!" as she was led away.
                  "Mr. Matthews, I am sorry to say that a diabolical plot has been discovered to
                     poison General Washington, and that yourself and Governor Tryon are accused, I
                     hope falsely, of being the instigators."
                  Putnam then proceeded to narrate the whole matter, in detail, to the Mayor.
                  Mr. Matthews replied indignantly and vehemently. He said that he was surprised
                     that such accusations should be believed for an instant. He went on to state
                     that he visited the woman for other purposes, which, perhaps, for
                     his private reputation, he had better say nothing about, he would leave the
                     court to judge. That, although he was friendly to the king's side, he should
                     consider himself an assassin and murderer to be engaged gaged in so foul a
                     business as the one stated. The impression of the court was strong in his favor
                     when he finished his defence.
                  To bring the matter to a close; after a fair trial, the guardsman was condemned
                     to be hung, partly on his own confession, but chiefly that poison was found
                     upon his person when arrested in the kitchen, at the General's quarters, whilst
                     dinner was cooking—a place where he had no business to call him. The woman,
                     Mrs. Watkins, denied all knowledge of him except as a transient visitor, and,
                     thus forsaken, the wretched victim was left to his fate.
                  That this trial is historical, the reader will see by the following extract of
                     a letter from Washington, dated the latter part of June, 1776.
                  "Congress, I doubt not, will have heard of the plot, that was forming among
                     many disaffected persons, in this city and government, for aiding the king's
                     troops upon their arrival. No regular plan seems to have been digested, but
                     several persons have been enlisted, and sworn to join them. The matter, I am in
                     hopes, by a timely discovery, will be suppressed and put a stop to. Many
                     citizens and others, among whom is the Mayor, are now in confinement.
                  "The matter has been traced up to Governor Tryon, and the Mayor appears to have
                     been a principal agent, or go-between him and the persons concerned in it. The
                     plot has been communicated to some of the army, and part of my guard engaged in
                     it. Thomas Hickey, one of them, has been tried, and, by the unanimous opinion
                     of a court-martial, is sentenced to die, having enlisted, himself, and engaged
                     others.
                  "The sentence, by the advice of the whole council of general officers, will be
                     put in execution to-day, at eleven o'clock. The others are not
                     tried. I am hopeful that this example will produce many salutary consequences,
                     and deter others from entering into the like traitorous practices."
                  Hickey was executed at the time mentioned in the presence of the whole army,
                     near where the City Hall now stands. He declared, to the last, that he had told
                     nothing but the truth, and admitted the justice of his sentence.
                  As soon as the execution was over, Ki commenced his search for Watkins, for he
                     felt sure that the villain was concealed somewhere in the city or its
                     neighborhood.
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  THE RATTLESNAKE'S DEN.
                  In 1776, the ridge of high rocky land which commences at Weehawken, on the
                     Jersey side of the Hudson, and terminates at Bull's Ferry, was not dotted, as
                     now, here and there, with gentlemen's country-seats, peeping out from the lofty
                     table-land amid the forests; but, at that period, this ridge, covered with oak,
                     chestnut, dwarf-pine and hemlock, was in its primitive state.
                  The bank was precipitous and rocky, and it was a difficult matter to ascend to
                     the top even by the most favorable paths. As a place of security, no spot
                     within twenty miles of the city could equal it, for a man, from the height,
                     could always perceive any approach by the river, and, on the land side, the
                     thickets were too dense, and the way too intricate, for any large body of men
                     to get near without being discovered.
                  It was a little after daylight, on the morning succeeding the occurrences
                     related in a part of our last chapter, that a boat, from the Bloomingdale side,
                     on York Island, was seen approaching the Jersey shore. Concealed by some
                     stunted bushes, which rose from the rocks close by the water-side, a man was
                     watching the boat, as the rowers seemed making for the spot where he stood.
                  The sun was now rising, and just began to pour a broad brilliant ray from the
                     opposite side across the water, bringing the boat directly in a line with its
                     glistening beams.
                  "Three of 'em," said the man—"there should be but two. That's the boat, anyhow,
                     and it's most time to make the signal, or I'll know the reason."
                  He took a musket, which was resting against the tree, closely examined the
                     priming, and then looked again towards the boat.
                  First one oar was raised perpendicularly, and then let fall—then the other was
                     raised and dropped in the same manner.
                  "All is right," said the man; and, coming from his concealment amid the bushes,
                     he waved a tattered handkerchief to those in the boat, and, in the space of
                     five minutes, the skiff run up alongside a rocky platform, out of sight from
                     the river.
                  "Why, Josh, there's three of you instead of two—who's t'other?"
                  "One of the rattlesnakes that knows how to bite. The dogs are after him, and
                     we've got to keep him at the den. He's badly hurt, too, and he'll have to lie
                     by some time."
                  "Why, Jotham, I think the old woman won't like it much—she's crosser than a
                     wildcat, the last two days."
                  "There's something that'll cure her ill-nature, Jo—see," and he held up a
                     leather purse, which he shook with great satisfaction.
                  "Ah! that'll get her good-natured, if anything can. Nothing like gold to ease
                     bad temper, and the old woman has her share of ugly natur'."
                  "Yes, but I've got good news besides," he said. "Arn't you heard mother rave
                     sometimes about a sartain Major Adair?"
                  "Yes, over and over again"
                  "Well, this wounded fellow here is one of his men, and don't love him overmuch.
                     When he heard Bill, as we were rowing over, call me in full name, Josh
                     Gatchell, he looked at me, and asked if my daddy had ever been a sojer; and,
                     when I said yes, he axed the regiment, and said he know'd him well, years
                     before he died. Then he axed about mother, and I told him we were goin' to take
                     him where she was, and he seemed mightily pleased at it. He talked all the way
                     over, and told me many old
                     things—so, you see, he knows all about us. He's got full pockets, too."
                  The reader will perceive that the wounded man was no other than Watkins, and
                     that the two brothers were Josh and Jotham, the sons of the old woman, at whose
                        hospitable mansion, in another portion of the country, Ki came
                     so nigh ending his life, nearly a year before.
                  "Now, Bill and Jo, you must help this gentleman up to the Rattlesnake's Den as
                     tenderly as you can. I know it's a bad path, and a long one, that you've got to
                     take him by, but that's the easiest way for him. I must stay and get the things
                     out of the boat, and put her away further out of sight. It may be three or four
                     days afore we go over to the island again. Softly, now, softly—there, how do
                     you feel, sir?"
                  "Stiff, stiff," replied Watkins, "but, with these men's assistance, I can get
                     along comfortably. How far have we got to go, my good fellows—I am not so much
                     hurt as I am weak."
                  "Well, the way we've got to go," answered the man named Bill—a rough,
                     half-sailor-looking fellow—"is, I reckon, a quarter of a mile, but it won't
                     take us long, so lean on both of us, and we'll start."
                  Putting an arm over Jotham and Bill, Watkins, partly walking and partly
                     carried, was soon lost to the sight of Josh, amid the trees and the curve of
                     the path taken. He went to the boat, and took out several baskets of
                     provisions, such as fresh and salted meat, hard bread, and a bag of meal. A
                     keg, holding about five gallons of liquor, he hugged with great care; and,
                     after looking carefully around for a moment, as if fearful of being watched,
                     although he well knew he was alone, he placed the keg upon a rock, drew out the
                     bung, and applied his mouth to the orifice. So much did he seem pleased with
                     the taste of the contents, that it was not until the sudden scream of a jay
                     overhead alarmed him, and with a long breath, he replaced the bung in the
                     keg.
                  "That's the best apple-jack I've smack'd since I left Monmouth County—it went
                     down like ile greased. But this won't do—I must hide the oars, and put the
                     skiff in a safer place."
                  A half hour passed away, and, in the course of that time, he had covered up the
                     skiff, or boat, with green boughs, in a recess of the rocks where the tide
                     scarcely rose, and where, as he expressed it to himself, "the devil couldn't
                     find her." Then, with the keg under one arm, and a basket on the other, he
                     commenced his journey up the hill, or, rather, rocky cliff.
                  The path was anything but an easy one, particularly, loaded as he was, for he
                     had to make his way amid stunted trees, and over sharp pointed stones, which,
                     in some places, almost choked up the way before him. At length, thinking
                     discretion was something, he deposited the basket on a shelf of rock, and
                     toiled on with the keg only.
                  At length, the "Rattlesnake's Den," as he termed it, came into view. The side
                     of the cliff or rock had, at some period, fallen outwards, to the extent of
                     near thirty feet in length, leaving a place about ten feet wide, under the brow
                     of the hill, completely concealed overhead, by numerous jagged rocks and wild
                     matted shrubs.
                  Here a rude hut or shanty had been erected, by cutting down some of the smaller
                     trees, and placing them against the side of the rock, so as to take in the
                     whole of the interior nature had so well scooped out. Turf and clay had been
                     placed on the sides and ends, so that it was impervious to wind and rain; and
                     concealed as it was by a thick forest, in a spot where no one thought of
                     venturing, it was indeed an out of the way place, well adapted for safe
                     concealment.
                  A rough door, placed so low, in the least approachable end, that a man of small
                     stature had to bend himself on going in, was the passage way by which Josh
                     entered without knocking. Once in, the interior of the half hut, half den,
                     astonished one by its size, who judged merely from external appearances.
                  It was divided into two apartments, the outer one of which was the kitchen or
                     cooking place. The light was admitted by a hole of sufficient size in the roof,
                     which was so ingeniously devised, that it could be closed at pleasure, when it
                     stormed. The furniture consisted of a few benches and a table, with a shelf on
                     one side, upon which were some tin plates and cooking utensils. The fire-place
                     and chimney, made of rough stones, ran up in the centre of the kitchen, and
                     formed, in a great measure, the partition that divided the rooms.
                  A fire was blazing on the hearth, over which hung a large kettle, similar to
                     those used by soldiers in cooking for the mess. A pleasant steam diffused
                     itself around, at least, one that is generally pleasant to hungry men, that of
                     meat cooking. The table likewise displayed two loaves of Indian bread, a number
                     of tin cups, a large platter of smoking hot potatoes, and a huge basin of water
                     cresses.
                  In one corner, half a dozen muskets, and two or three cutlasses were seen,
                     showing pretty conclusively that the dwellers or inmates of the place, led a
                     life of peril, in times of peril, when brother was armed against brother, in
                     the strife which was then fairly commencing throughout the whole land.
                  A bull dog, of large size, came out of the inner room, showing his teeth and
                     growling, but on seeing Josh, he bounded forward and jumped upon him with all
                     the tokens of warm delight which that brute bestows upon his master, after
                     absence.
                  Proceeding to the inner room, which was less furnished, if possible, than the
                     other, and occupied by three or four sleeping bunks, on either side, filled
                     with clean straw, Josh found that Watkins and his two companions had reached
                     the place in safety, for the Sergeant was lying upon a blanket, and a woman was
                     busily engaged in applying some preparation to one of his limbs, a ball having
                     torn off the flesh just below the knee, without doing any serious injury, but
                     still disagreeable, as well as painful.
                  The woman, our readers will recollect; the mother of the two amiable boys now
                     present, or, as we shall hereafter call her, Mrs. Gatchell. Besides those
                     already described, some four or five men of rough exterior, and desperate looks
                     were also present. Including Mrs. Gatchell the party consisted of about a
                     dozen, and if a stranger had accidentally entered, he would have imagined, in
                     truth, from the looks of those around, that "the Rattlesnake Den" was not
                     inaptly named.
                  "Ah! Josh," said the wounded man, looking up, "you see here I am, safe and
                     sound, and I find your mother knows how to dress a hit from a musket ball, as
                     well as she did a long time ago."
                  "Why not, Sergeant. I didn't follow my old man to the French wars about Ti for
                     nothing, not I. Now this salve is a preparation that no one but me knows how to
                     make. I learnt it from an Injin squaw of the Mohawks, it's made out of
                     partic'lar yarbs, mixed with black snake's oil, and you have to cotch the snake
                     at the full of the moon, or it ain't of no use. There, Sergeant, now it's on
                     and tied, and afore a week's over, you'll be about again, as good as ever."
                  "I hope so, Mother Gatchell, it will be all the better for you if I do get on
                     my pins again within a week. You shan't want for pay, I assure you. I've them
                     in the city under my thumb, that's got to see me out, as far as guineas go,
                     come what will."
                  "Do you hear that, boys, every one of you?" said Mother Gatchell, looking
                     around, with a tone of superiority to her clan, "didn't I tell you
                     we wasn't on King George's side for nothin'! Remember, too, how the devilish
                     rebels, whigs, or some such outlandish name, as they goes by, burnt us out of
                     house and home a long ways from here, and we had to get into the boats and sail
                     for our lives from Toms River. Your father was shot, Dick Van Dizer, for being
                     a king's man, and your's hung, Sandy Garton, because he killed a rebel family.
                     All of you's got some bloody vengeance to take, and you arn't put yourselves
                     under a woman's command, for to do nothin' Do yer hear, boys?" Her voice grew
                     husky with rage towards the latter part of the speech.
                  "We do, Mother Gatchell," replied one of the party, "we do, and we will have
                     vengeance, bloody vengeance, and no mistake about it; blood for blood on the
                     damned rebels."
                  "I'm glad to hear you say so; but come, boys, you hain't had your breakfasts
                     yet, and now Josh has come, I suppose he hasn't forgot the liquor keg. Have you
                     brought it along, Josh?"
                  "Let me alone about that, mother. You bring on the breakfast and I'll see that
                     the apple-jock ain't far behind."
                  The contents of the huge kettle was soon placed upon the table, and the smell
                     it diffused to the olfactories of the hungry band, whetted their appetites with
                     a vengeance. One contended that he could tell the flavor of the lamb he dragged
                     out of a lot and killed, near Hackensack; another knew that the goose leg he
                     was gnawing belonged to a particular goose he had seized, whilst nibbling grass
                     by the road side, and a third contended that the tender veal which added so
                     much to the stew, was part of a splendid quarter he had taken out of a rebel
                     farmer's barn, just after being slaughtered.
                  "Now, boys, here's the stuff," said Josh, producing the keg, "pass round your
                     cups, it's sometime since you all had your grog, I reckon."
                  "Yes, for the matter of two days," answered one. "Sam Dobbs and I hung round
                     the lot where some fellows were mowing, for an hour or two, tryin' to get a
                     chance at a jug of whiskey that lay under a tree, but we couldn't do nothin',
                     they had their eyes all round."
                  "Sarved you right, I don't think you'd liked it over much to find your grog
                     taken off in that kind of way. No, no, Sandy, never rob a man of his grog,
                     anything but that, I don't think its gentlemanly—it don't become us, on the
                     side we are, you know."
                  "Sides, Bill, I can't say much as to that. I rather guess, if it hadn't been
                     for a certain lashing, dealt by a rebel constable, at Elizabethtown, on one of
                     your sides, and a drummin' out of the place, you wouldn't be quite
                     so fierce a king's man now."
                  The man, to whom this language was addressed, showed, at first, some symptoms
                     of quarrelling, but, when Mother Gatchell raised a finger imperatively, and
                     shook it at both parties, they went on quietly with their eating, merely
                     exchanging rage through their eyes, as they looked at each other.
                  "Now, boys," said the matron of the den, "eat your fill. The man that's
                     wounded, in the other room, was an old friend of my poor husband that's dead
                     and gone—so eat away, whilst I go in and have a little talk about things that
                     happened afore some of you was born."
                  Mrs. Gatchell took her way into the room where Watkins was lying, and closed
                     the door, or the apology for a door, which shut the passageway between the two
                     rooms. The men around the table were not sorry for this; they held old Mother
                     Gatchell in too much awe, to be very merry when she presided at the table.
                  The conference in the next room, between Mrs. Gatchell and Watkins, was of long
                     continuance. The earlier part, relating to events of a long antecedent period,
                     will be developed in the course of the story. We will take up that portion,
                     commencing at the period familiar to our readers, when Watkins, after the
                     escape of Ki, was left at Quebec.
                  "How did you manage to get to New York from Quebec, Sergeant, it must have been
                     dangerous? I know you was always a desperate fellow, though."
                  "Not so desperate in getting to New York, Mother Gatchell, as remaining there.
                     When the Yankees ran away from before the walls this spring, and our troops got
                     to arriving from England, Sir Guy Carleton sent a vessel to New York, with
                     despatches for Governor Tryon, by one of his aids. I came with him, not in a
                     very high rank, to be sure, for Sir Guy never seemed to like me much, after
                     Miss Manners got his ear."
                  "How did you get ashore? I thought Governor Tryon didn't leave the Asia ship,
                        lying in the bay, for fear the
                     Continentals would seize him?"
                  "Very true, but I got ashore easy enough-Why, I was quartered in the city for
                     two years, and knew how to do it. Besides, Governor Tryon fancied me, and
                     furnished me with papers to deliver to certain people in the city, the Mayor
                     among the rest. I was to be well paid, success or no success. Everything went
                     well until the cursed affair of last night. How that devil of a Yankee, that
                     long-legged fellow, got wind of me, I can't tell. Twice I've had him in my
                     power, and he got clear both times. Damn him, I'll have him yet, for this is
                     the second time he's run me close, and I'm not to be baulked a third time, come
                     what will. It's to be neck or nothing, next time, between us."
                  "He's the same fellow, Sergeant, that escaped from me and the boys, down in
                     lower Jersey. He stands a head taller than most men—he's got an eye keen as a
                     fish-hawk's, and he's as strong as a lion. Ain't that a good description?"
                  "Exact; but tell me, Mother Gatchell, how did he get away from you—you had him
                     safe enough?"
                  The old woman fidgetted for a moment, twisting her fingers together, as if ill
                     at ease, and displaying some emotion.
                  "The fact is, Watkins, Jake, my oldest born, got chicken-hearted, and let him
                     go—that is, we all thought so."
                  "But where is Jake? I recollect the very hour when he was born."
                  "Well, Sergeant—you mustn't ask too close about Jake—he's gone—gone for good, I
                     reckon. It's strange, when I was little, I was skeart at anything—now, I can
                     endure what many men can't. Don't ask about Jake."
                  "Well, I'll say nothing more about him. But tell me how you came here, and what
                     sent you from your home?"
                  "That's easily done," was the reply. "I was always on the king's side, so was
                     the boys, and we didn't bear the ragamuffin rebels much good, that's sartain. A
                     pedlar was missing, and they found some of his goods at our place, and they
                     commenced searching for his body, just as if we'd been doing murder. Doing
                     murder—what did I and the boys want to do murder for? Well, they didn't find no
                     body, nor murder, nor blood, but they set fire to our place, calling us a nest
                     of bloody tories, and druv us off, just like thieves. We saved a few things in
                     a boat, and the boys and I reached New York, by way of the sea, in about a
                     week. Some of the king's folks helped us a little, and when the rebels took
                     entire possession of the city, we looked out for a safe spot, and here it is,
                     'The Rattlesnake's Den,' and well do we sting the rebels."
                  Watkins listened attentively to all that Mother Gatchell said in her rambling
                     way. He knew what to believe, and how much to believe, of the
                     story told. He knew, also, that he was in a dangerous place—not so much from
                     the inmates, as from the possibility of "The Rattlesnake's Den" being
                     discovered by the friends of the revolution. In that case, he knew all the
                     inmates would be hung without mercy, for most of them were outlaws, with arms
                     in their hands.
                  "Are you sure, Mother Gatchell, that we are safe here? You know, the rebels
                     have their scouts all around, and, if taken, there will be but little favor
                     given to them found in 'The Rattlesnake's Den.'"
                  "Pooh, pooh—no danger just yet. We stand by ourselves, and not a rebel dreams
                     about us. Here we are all safe. They say there's a fort building above, by
                     General Lee, he that was Kurnel on the king's side."
                  I know him well. He is a good officer, and served when I was in Portugal. He's
                     very stern, Mother Gatchell, and would hang us all with as little care about
                     it, as you'd hang up herrings to be smoked in the chimney corner."
                  "We're not to be found out at all, Watkins, without good notice. Why, there's
                     watch and guard all round us. I've turned commander, and placed sentinels just
                     as we used to when lying round 'old Ti.' But you havn't told me how you got
                     clear of the city, and about your hurt, Sergeant; tell quick, for I know, by
                     the noise, the lads are finishin' breakfast."
                  Watkins proceeded to tell his story, but never mentioned the name of Peg or his interview with her. He detailed the account of his
                     escape, but not from the dwelling where the pretended Mrs. Watkins
                     lived, nor did he mention the name of a female at all.
                  The reader will remember that Watkins fled after stabbing the sentinel, and all
                     traces of his footsteps were lost in the middle of the road, when searched for
                     by Burnham and his party. A farmer's double wagon was passing at the time he
                     received his wound, and, unconsciously to the driver, amid the noise of the
                     storm and tempest of the night, he threw himself in and was carried some three
                     or four miles, unnoticed.
                  He dropped out, undiscovered, at a place where he knew a strong tory lived, and
                     obtained shelter for the night. In the morning, he was put on board the skiff,
                     to be conveyed to a place of safety, not knowing where he was to be taken. It
                     was thus he told his story to mother Gatchell, who listened, fully as
                     attentively to his narrative, as he had done to her own.
                  There arose a sudden shout in the outer chamber, mingled with oaths and loud
                     cries of anger and denunciation. Before the old woman could reach the door, it
                     was thrown open, and two or three of the gang rushed in, dragging between them
                     a man whose countenance exhibited the greatest terror and fear. A glance
                     sufficed to show that he was a countryman, some farmer of the neighborhood, and
                     that he had, unwittingly, perhaps, discovered the "Rattlesnake's Den."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI
                  The looks cast upon the countryman, both by Mrs. Gatchell and Watkins, must
                     have been to the poor fellow small consolation of safety. Surrounded, too, by
                     so many hard looking men, men who felt so little compassion towards any one who
                     fell into their clutches, not of the same side and opinions with themselves,
                     and whose hearts were steeled now for every crime, his situation, if he had
                     fully known it, was one of desperation.
                  "Who are you, and what are you doing in this neighborhood?" said Mrs.
                     Gatchell.
                  "I'm a farmer from close by Hackensack, and I was looking about here for a
                     stray cow of mine, that's all," the prisoner answered, with strong evidence of
                     fear.
                  "A likely story, looking for a cow among the rocks, here," she replied, "do you
                     think we are fools?"
                  "I've told the truth, and I don't see any harm in that. I suppose you'll let me
                     go now?"
                  "You wouldn't let a wolf go, I reckon," said Josh, "if you found him among your
                     sheep, Mr. Farmer."
                  "I'm no wolf, and don't mean any one no harm, and I 'spose you don't mean me
                     any, if yon do, I'll take the law on you." The poor fellow mustered up courage
                     enough to say this, for, having a great dread of the law himself, he supposed
                     every one had.
                  "The law, you'll take the law on us," said the old hag, with a sneer, "I
                     calculate you will, when you get a chance. Do you hear that, boys—this fellow
                     says that he'll take the law of us, which means, he'll have us all taken up to
                     swing on some of the trees around, when we're caught. Why, you fool, if you
                     don't know how to use your tongue better, you'd best cut it out. On which side
                     are you, king's man or for Congress?"
                  "I don't hate neither, I'm for healin' up troubles." He wanted to be
                     non-committal, as well as he was able.
                  "I know better," said one of the men who held him, "I know your face, I've seen
                     you down at the Three Pigeons, when you didn't see me. You're a rebel, a
                     murderous rogue, and would kill a king's man quicker than a sheep, if you had a
                     chance. He called every one that wasn't a patriot that night, down at the
                     tavern, villains, that ought to be hung up like crows, as a warnin' for
                     others."
                  "Ha! ha!" exclaimed Watkins, who had up to this time kept silent, "then we must
                     look out for him. Our necks won't be worth a groat, if we let him
                     go. He looks as if he belonged to some of Washington's life-taking clan. We
                     must keep this fellow a while, if we don't do worse with him."
                  "Keep him," said Mother Gatchell, "yes, keep him as the hawk does a wren. There
                     musn't be any way left for harm to come to us, and if this fellow is let run
                     now or a month hence, it will be all the same for us—death from the rebel
                     thieves. No, that's the last thing to do—let him run, indeed."
                  "Why, you would'nt hang me—no—you darn't do such a thing," said the man,
                     struggling with those who held him, and shouting at the top of his voice,
                     "help, help!"
                  He was at once thrown down, his hands tied, and his mouth gagged, so that he
                     could not be heard, otherwise than from a few weak groans, fainter and fainter,
                     until they finally subsided into heavy breathing.
                  "Now search the rascal, boys," said Josh, "perhaps we may find something that
                     will tell us who he is. The 'rattlesnakes' know how to sting when their den's
                     attacked"
                  Nothing of any importance was found on him at first. A jack-knife, a few pieces
                     of silver, some Continental bills, a fish hook and line, with one or two leaden
                     bullets, constituted all that his pockets held. His rough three-cornered hat
                     had fallen off, and lay in one corner.
                  Watkins, whose wound did not permit him to move from the bunk where he lay, had
                     kept his eyes about him, and observed that a piece of paper, rolled up, had
                     dropped from the hat, and he called to one of the men to bring it to him.
                  "Ah! here is something that let's us know at once who this fellow is. He is one
                     of the sneaking rascally rebels who go about the country reporting the name of
                     every royalist and king's man to the villain leaders of the rebels, so as to
                     get their property, and then see 'em hung afterwards. He's in your power,
                     Mother Gatchell; take care that you don't get in his."
                  "Never fear about that, at all, Sergeant Watkins; he's safe now, and won't do
                     the king's side any harm; but what does that paper say? I can't read writin'
                     very well now, my eyesight arn't as good as 'twas."
                  The Sergeant read the paper. It was a pass such as were given at the time to
                     particular men, signed by Washington himself. It stated that the bearer, Dolph
                     Van Tassel, was faithful to the American cause, and well acquainted with the
                     secret movements of all the tory families of Bergen, Hackensack, English
                     Neighborhood, and up to the Clove. He was to have from all outposts and guards
                     a free passage in and out of New York, to go when and where he pleased, as long
                     as the pass was produced, and, in case of emergency, all officers and soldiers
                     were to render him full aid in arresting such tories as he should point out,
                     who were considered dangerous.
                  "Oh ho! Mr. Dolph Van Tassel!" exclaimed the woman, at the highest pitch of her
                     voice, "you are going to search out all the tories, are you?—well, well, you
                     are sarched out yourself this move. Say your prayers to yourself, for in half
                     an hour's time you won't say 'em any more on this airth, sartain. Boys, get the
                     rope ready."
                  "Mother Gatchell," said one of the men, "don't you think it's too much trouble
                     to hang him? Let's make carrion of him, pitch him off the cliffs on the rocks
                     below, and the next tide will float his broken body over to his rebel
                     companions on t'other side. What say you, lads?"
                  "Yes!" was the general response.
                  "Stay a minute; perhaps, after all, that course would be best, for those who
                     find the body will think he fell over. But take the gag out of his mouth first,
                     we must get some information from the wretch," said Watkins.
                  The gag was removed, and the poor fellow placed upon a bench. He looked the
                     picture of despair, but yet, by his compressed lip, and an occasional glance of
                     his eye at particular ticular
                     persons in the group, he seemed courageous withal.
                  "Now, rascal," said Watkins, acting as interrogator, "tell us truly what
                     brought you into a place so dangerous as this to those on your side?"
                  "How do you know I'm not on your side?"
                  "So, Mr. Dolph Van Tassel, you'd waste words, would you? Why, here is your pass
                     and name—what more is needed? It's best for you to answer straight."
                  "It ain't no sign that paper belongs to me, 'cause you happened to find it in
                     my pocket."
                  "Do you pretend to say your name isn't Van Tassel?" exclaimed Watkins, in a
                     rage.
                  "No, I don't pretend nothin'. It ain't no use, for you seem detarmined to make
                     it out my name, as you call it, anyway."
                  "If you don't answer the truth, Mr. Van Tassel, in five minutes' time, you'll
                     be where you can't answer any one again."
                  "If you're going to murder me, what's the use of my answering anything? you
                     won't believe me."
                  "Murder you," interrupted Mrs. Gatchell, "do justice, that's the word—you're
                     come spying about like a sneak dog, to have us all hung, because we go for the
                     king—murder you, rogue!"
                  So angry was she, that she tossed a dirty cloth she held in her hand right into
                     the man's face.
                  "Don't get excited, Mrs. Gatchell—don't get excited," said Watkins; "we'll
                     learn something yet out of the fellow. Perhaps we won't hang him, after all,"
                     he said, with a sinister expression of countenance, "if he only answers us
                     straight, and does the right thing. If he don't, the devil only must have mercy
                     on him."
                  "Then ask your questions," said the man, "as they should be asked; but I want
                     you to rely on what I say, or else what's the use of questioning at all? I
                     don't think it's likely that I'm goin' to lie when my life is in such hands,
                     unless it's no use to try to save it."
                  "Answer first, then, is your name Van Tassel?"
                  "Yes."
                  "The name that's put down here, Dolph Van Tassel?"
                  "Yes, I won't deny it."
                  "When did you come out of New York?"
                  "This morning."
                  "Ha! this morning. Was there any stir about in camp—or—or has anything
                     happened?"
                  "Nothin' particular, except a fire last night that burnt down two or three
                     housen."
                  "How did they get on fire, or don't any one know, or didn't you hear?"
                  "Well, I did hear that the lightnin' did it; and then others said that it was
                     set on fire by a man that the guard was after, who got away, like Satan, or
                     some such character, in a lot of blue flame, stabbed a sentinel, and did other
                     wondrous matters, and then flew over into the Jarseys."
                  "And I 'spose you are over in the Jarseys after him, ain't you?"
                  "No, I don't undertake to chase wild geese."
                  "Wasn't there no other news in the city?"
                  "Yes, I recollect hearin' an officer say, some of the General's guard and the
                     Mayor had been tooken up in attemptin' to poison the Commander-in-Chief."
                  "Ah! that is news—so they didn't succeed?"—and Watkins absolutely ground his
                     teeth with very rage.
                  "No, they didn't, thank God!" said the prisoner, fervently, forgetting the
                     place he was in.
                  "I wish they had, you sneakin' rebel," exclaimed Mrs. Gatchell.
                  "And wasn't there no one else taken up but the Mayor and guardsman?" inquired
                     Watkins, with some anxiety.
                  "Yes, a woman of bad repute named—"
                  "Oh, never mind the name," said Watkins, not wishing it to be repeated
                        there—"tell us if they found any of 'em guilty?"
                  "Well, I can't say, for I 'blieve the trial, was goin' on when I com'd
                     over."
                  "And so they'd hang women, too, the cussed rebels—let 'em try it, let 'em try
                     it. For every loyalist woman hung, I'll string up two—mark that, sneak." This
                     proceeded from the lips of Mother Gatchell—that hag of hags.
                  "What do the officers say—do they think any of them taken up will be hung?"
                  "I didn't hear, but I suppose they will be."
                  "What, hang the Mayor, Mr. Matthews? If they do that, King George will take
                     ample vengeance."
                  "Why not hang him, too, if he's trying to poison the General?" asked the
                     prisoner, firmly.
                  "What's the use of keeping this fellow chattering here—don't you hear what he
                     says? Let's string him up, or cut his throat," exclaimed Josh, in a menacing
                     tone, and brandishing a knife.
                  The prisoner looked imploringly at Watkins, and twisted his confined limbs, as
                     if with agony.
                  "Stop, stop, Josh, don't harm the man; come here, I want to say a word to
                     you."
                  Josh advanced up to the place where Watkins was lying, and a conference of some
                     five minutes' length took place between them, in an under tone.
                  "Very well, pr'aps 'twould be best—you know whether 'twould or no."
                  "Your life is safe," said Watkins to Van Tassel, "under certain promises on
                     your part, which you shall hear by-and-bye. Now, we want to know truly what
                     brought you to this place, and if you were not in search of some one here? It's
                     out of the way, and we are all of us in danger when a rebel like you knows the
                     'Rattlesnake's Den.'"
                  "How could I know there was such a place, but by accident?" answered Van
                     Tassel.
                  "'Twas a queer kind of accident that made you peek in the door, when you
                     thought no one was by," said Josh, in no gentle tones.
                  "Of course, I didn't know what to make of the place—I knew none of my neighbors
                     had built it."
                  "Now answer truly, in what purpose were you engaged, when you found out this
                     cavernous hut by accident?" said Watkins, looking Van Tassel firmly in the
                     face.
                  "Well, some of my neighbors bad missed their cattle, now and then, for some
                     time back, and I lost a cow, so I came to look for her."
                  "How far do you live from here. Van Tassel?"
                  "Well, it may be the matter of six mile, or a little more, I reckon."
                  "Ain't it nearer ten?"
                  "Well, it might be, if you take the road about two mile off, but not if you
                     come by Bergen woods."
                  "Ain't the path through the woods a pretty tedious one and hard to travel?"
                  "Yes, very hard."
                  "And so you thought this cow had strayed through the woods, ten miles, to such
                     a place as this?"
                  "No, I thought she was driven away, you see; because I tracked her to a swamp
                     two miles off, and I knew she never went through that, unless she was druv
                     through."
                  "You take us for cattle thieves, do ye?" again interrupted the old woman. "No,
                     no, we're only takin' our rights. Didn't your cussed rebels barn our houses
                     about our ears, kill all the live stock, and threaten to murder us? I know all
                     about it, and you shall all feel and pay for it, the whole rebel gang of you,
                     whenever we have a chance. Your cattle shall feed us, your crops shall be ours,
                     and your lives ours, whenever we feel inclined to take 'em, blast and curse
                     your whole race, say I." Mother Gatchell foamed almost with rage.
                  During this blast of anger, the men in the room became excited, and it was with
                     great difficulty that Watkins could restrain them from laying hands upon Van
                     Tassel, and putting him out of existence at once. He at length succeeded, and
                     quiet was once more restored, when he renewel his questions.
                  "Are any of your neighbors out in search with you?"
                  All eyes were turned upon Van Tassel as he answered.
                  "No, not in this direction—not a soul."
                  "Then others are out, looking for their cattle?"
                  "Only three neighbors, but they won't come this way."
                  The old woman spoke to three or four of the men standing by, and they at once
                     went out of the room. In a few minutes after, they were seen, through a kind of
                     loop-hole, scrambling up the rocky height, each armed with a musket, and a
                     hanger slung over their shoulders.
                  "How do you know they won't come this way, Van Tassel?"
                  "Because the way was differently fixed and understood—we was afterwards to meet
                     at the Three Pigeons, and then go over to York together."
                  "Why, I thought you only came over this morning?"
                  "So I did."
                  "How could you walk ten miles and back by this time, for you say you live ten
                     miles off?"
                  "Oh, that's easy told: I arn't been home since day before yesterday, and I met
                     my neighbors when I'd gone only two or three miles, so we all agreed to search
                     together, when they said where they was goin', seein' each on us had lost a
                     cow."
                  "Did you all think they'd been stole?"
                  "Well, we concluded so pretty much, because such a thing never happened in
                     these parts until very late."
                  "And who did you think stole 'em?"
                  "Why, we couldn't judge exactly, but we thought it might be some of the
                     freebooters about, that's opposed to us. Then, agin, as the times was
                     desperate, we didn't know but some of the boatmen about the river might have
                     stole 'em, to sell the beef to the British ships in the bay, for they pay a
                     mighty good price for it."
                  "What boatmen do you mean?"
                  "Why, these troubles have put an end to the fishermen's business, and then
                     there's many of the shore sailors that can't do much any more, and, as a good
                     many of 'em have been badly treated because they was on the king's side, why,
                     you see, they must do something, and so they steal the cattle of the whig
                     farmers, and rob their barns, to take their plunder to the British vessels in
                     the bay. We thought some of them might have got our cattle."
                  "Do the boatmen land about this neighborhood?"
                  "No, not exactly here, it's too steep, but Bull's Ferry, above this, is a great
                     rendezvous sometimes."
                  "And they are king's men, all driven away from their homes, I 'spose, because
                     they liked his majesty, and wouldn't take up arms with the wonderful Washington
                     and his ragged rebels?"
                  "I have said they was on your side. I shan't say what I think of 'em, for that
                     wouldn't suit you"
                  "No, you'd better not," said Mother Gatchell, with a savage look.
                  "At Bull's Ferry, you say, they come sometimes. And how far is that?"
                  "Well, not above the matter of three or four miles, by the river. But it's hard
                     to tell when they do come, except that they arrive in the night, and do all the
                     damage before morning. Then they are off at once—no stopping 'em when they are
                     sheltered by a king's frigate."
                  "Now, as to your pardon, your life," said Watkins, in a decided tone—"are you
                     willing to go on board the king's ship Asia, if we send you there, take an oath
                     to support his majesty's cause, and enlist on board of her as a good
                     subject?"
                  Van Tassel listened to him, and stared at him with eyes of wonder. At length
                     his tongue gave vent:
                  "Why, I've got a wife and four children, and never was at sea in my life. You
                     sartainly won't treat me in that way. What harm have I done ye?"
                  "It's the harm you intend to do us I speak of. Why, if you was let go, before
                     two hours passed, you'd be upon us
                     with a hundred men, and hang us all up, as tory robbers. No, no, letting
                        you go is out of the question."
                  "If he's let out of this place, to go free," said Josh, "I'll put a ball
                     through him as quick as I'd shoot a deer, and with a good deal more delight,
                     that I would."
                  "I'll promise solemnly not to say a word about any of you or your place. I
                     won't, I won't," said the prisoner, in a lachrymose tone.
                  "Your promise—the promise of a rebel!" replied Watkins, scornfully.
                  "Then I'll take an oath on the bible—or any way, but spare my life, and don't
                     send me on board the frigate. Oh! it's cruel."
                  "Who, among the rebels, thought it cruel, when they strung up my daddy at Pine
                     Bridge?" said one of the party, gnashing his teeth.
                  "And who thought it cruel, when they shot my brother at Bound Brook?" said
                     another.
                  If Van Tassel's chance for life was small, it was now rendered more desperate
                     by the sudden entrance of one of the gang, who had been absent on a predatory
                     excursion at the time Van Tassel was taken.
                  "Be on the watch, all of you," said he, with rapid utterance—"two miles off, I
                     saw a couple of armed countrymen, on the search or lookout for something. So,
                     be wary, Mother Gatchell, you are the commander."
                  The prisoner, Van Tassel, trembled when he heard the sound of the man's voice,
                     and he felt a pang rush through his heart, when, on looking up, he recognized
                     the man's countenance. He felt that his life was doomed.
                  "Ah! ha! ha! ha!" said the man, exultingly, almost maniac-like, as he gazed at
                     Van Tassel. "So, you are in my power at last. Now am I to be revenged—yes,
                     revenged. You shall die the same way as he did."
                  "Has the rebel rascal ever harmed any one belonging to you, Dirck Jauncey? If
                     he has, he shall swing for it."
                  "Harmed! It was this Dolph Van Tassel that had my brother, Oloff, taken up and
                     hung, because he was a tory. Now I've got him, and I'll serve him the same
                     rebel source."
                  "Your brother was a murderer—he shot the poor tailor, at Hackensack, because
                     they quarrelled about the king's side, and the side of Congress," shouted Van
                     Tassel, in desperation.
                  "You lie, hell-hound! He shot the man honorably; for wasn't my brother called a
                     God cursed tory, and, for retorting on Congress, tarred and feathered by a
                     gang, led by the bandy-legged tailor he afterwards shot Didn't you sneak out
                     his hiding-place, and deliver him up to justice, as you called it?
                     Justice!—they hung him up as you'd hang up a scare-crow, and without a minute's
                     warning."
                  "He was served right!" screamed Van Tassel—desperation, the certainty of death,
                     all conspired to make him furious, and he spoke what he felt.
                  "Ah! ha! boys, a rope, a rope!—we'll see if Dolph Van Tassel don't make as
                     pretty a looking sight on a hickory tree as Oloff Jauncey."
                  In vain did Watkins endeavor to stay the vengeance of the wild gang a little
                     longer, not that he was merciful, but he had his own selfish reasons, all was
                     in vain, a rope was slipped round the neck of Van Tassel, and they gagged him,
                     to stop his cries of "Oh! my poor wife and children."
                  They dragged their victim to a ledge or cleft of rock, near by the cavernous
                     hut, from which was a perpendicular descent of some hundred feet. The abyss
                     was, however, concealed from view by the branches of trees and shrubs, which
                     grew out of the fissures of the rocks below, so that, in looking down, you saw
                     nothing but green leaves, even at the distance of a few feet.
                  A rope was speedily passed around the tops of a fair sized growing hickory
                     tree, and drawn to its tension with the prisoner's weight, as his feet rested
                     upon the edge of the precipice. Resistance on his part was perfectly vain, his
                     hands and feet were both tied, his mouth bandaged, and he was in the hands of
                     strong men.
                  "I'll give the word, boys, when to swing," said Jauncey, the man who conceived
                     he had all to avenge, as he kept drawing the rope tighter and tighter, so as to
                     make the swing of his victim shorter.
                  "Now!"
                  Off swung the victim, and his weight instantly bowed the upper portion of the
                     tree to a complete curve. In some way, Van Tassel, as he swung backwards and
                     forwards, managed to withdraw his hands from the cord by which they were tied,
                     and he raised them sufficiently above his head, to seize a portion of the rope
                     and lift himself, so as to relieve the immediate strangulation from that part
                     which was about his neck. Crack, crack; the upper portion of the tree gave way,
                     and down went the poor wretch, dividing the leaves and branches as he fell into
                     the abyss, far, far below. The noise of the body, dropping from tree to tree,
                     was heard for the space of a moment, then all was hushed. Each of the gang
                     exchanged looks, as they endeavored to pierce the green verdure below, and
                     then, without speaking, returned to the hut, confident of their victim's fate.
                     Such scenes were not uncommon in the days of the revolution.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  When Ki commenced his search for Watkins it was without clue as to the
                     villain's whereabouts. He was confident that the man who had escaped from the
                     neighborhood of the burning house was no other than him, and that the sentinel
                     in the vicinity of the fields received his wound from no other person.
                  The first day he spent in searching every suspicious house in the neighborhood,
                     under the pretence of arresting deserters, having received a warrant for that
                     purpose from Gen. Putnam, who was military commandant of the city. He found
                     nothing, however, that led to any knowledge of the man he was in search of.
                     Failing in this, he determined to visit the guard-room, where Mrs. Watkins
                     still 
                        remainded
                        remained
                     , no order as yet having been given for her release, for she was
                     discovered too intriguing and dangerous to be set at liberty immediately, under
                     the circumstances which had led to her arrest.
                  Ki had not seen her since the night of her arrest, and on being admitted to the
                     very comfortable and neat room which she occupied, he thought her prison quite
                     a pleasant one. The only person in the room was the soldier's wife, under whose
                     charge she was. At a signal from Ki, the latter left the room. Mrs. Watkins
                     examined Ki from head to foot, with that same bold stare usually belonging to
                     women of her character. He drew a chair and seated himself a little distance
                     from her.
                  "I hope, Mrs. Watkins, you are comfortably taken care of in your new
                     quarters."
                  "How do you know I'm Mrs. Watkins?" was her only reply.
                  "I don't know—if that is not right, tell me what is, I'll call you by any
                     name."
                  "Very well, sir, see that you do—my name is Spitfire, Miss Matilda Spitfire, a
                     lady of loyalty, a true subject of King George the Third, and hating rebels as
                     I do toads. There, sir, now you are answered."
                  "Fully and truly so, at least so far as the Spitfire goes, for I believe the
                     last time we met, something of that kind occurred in the place of our meeting,
                     by which means the devil or somebody else went up the chimney."
                  "And the devil escaped?"
                  "There lie my doubts of the man absolutely being a devil, for I understand, a
                     few human bones, charred and burnt, have been found to-day, under the ruins.
                     So, you see, they must have belonged to a mortal."
                  "I don't believe it," she answered, after a moments' pause. "I have been told
                     different, the man escaped, I am up to your cunning, Mr. Long
                     Legs—if that's not your name, it should be."
                  "I am content with any name the amiable Miss Spitfire may honor me with. Permit
                     me to ask who gave you the information that the man escaped?"
                  "The soldiers that conveyed me here. That man you will never be
                     able to catch."
                  "Do not be so certain. I know the man's name, and will soon be on his track—he
                     may escape me for a time, but sooner or later, be the period days or years, I
                     feel that I alone will bring him to justice."
                  "Heaven preserve us! what a blood-thirsty giant. Didn't you never hear of those
                     old fellows, bigger than you, that were going to kill little Jack,
                  'Fee, Faw, Fo, Fum—
                  I smell the blood of an Englishman,
                  I must, and shall, and will have some!' why you beat them all, out and
                     out."
                  "Well, Miss Spitfire, you are really very funny, in your way, but I repeat,
                        Sergeant Watkins, the jackall of Major Adair, will
                     yet be in my power."
                  For the first time, the countenance of that fallen woman lost the brazen
                     expression which had so long shown itself. She looked steadily and earnestly in
                     the face of the Ensign, and then exclaimed eagerly:
                  "What know you of Major Adair?"
                  "Enough to pronounce him a villain, and unworthy of bearing a commission in any
                     service."
                  "You speak the truth, alas!" she replied.
                  Ki saw that he had struck a chord of the woman's feelings, and yet he hardly
                     knew why. In mentioning the name of Major Adair, he had merely done it to show
                     that he knew all about Watkins, and that there was some connection between the
                     latter and the woman before him. He determined to follow up the advantage
                     gained.
                  "Watkins, who has escaped me, is the confidential servant or rather companion
                     of Major Adair. The Major is or was at Quebec, but Watkins is now lurking about
                     the city or its neighborhood."
                  "And what has Sergeant Watkins done, that you feel so much
                     bitterness against him?"
                  "He has twice endeavored to take my life—but more than all, he has been
                     concerned in more than one endeavor to basely murder General Washington."
                  "And if caught, I suppose he would be hung?"
                  "To be plain, then, I would not answer for his existence, six hours after he
                     was taken."
                  "And so you want me, sir, for I see through it all, you want me to tell you
                     where the man that escaped from my room is most likely to be found?"
                  "I do."
                  "Sergeant Watkins, you mean?"
                  "The very man."
                  "And what reward shall I have?"
                  "That depends upon the Commander-in-Chief. It will be liberal. Let me tell you
                     still further, last night this same man stabbed a sentinel who cannot possibly
                     live, he is therefore guilty of murder."
                  "Then, hear my answer. The man was Sergeant Watkins, yet I cannot
                     tell his whereabouts or retreat, if I would. But if I could, sooner than betray
                     him I would suffer death myself. It is true I am fallen and degraded in the
                     eyes of the world, but I am not sunk so low as to betray a friend."
                  "I leave that to your conscience. I am only sorry that you think it necessary
                     to aid in concealing a murderer. If Watkins is your friend—husband, I have
                     heard him called—keep your secret."
                  "He is not my husband," she answered, vehemently. "I thought once I was
                     married, but he was not the man."
                  "I do not ask the secrets of your history," said Ki, getting himself somewhat
                     affected; "I came to ask of you a question—you have answered it—if not as I
                     wished, I must be satisfied."
                  "And am I to be deprived much longer of my liberty?" she inquired, observing
                     that Ki rose, as if to leave.
                  "That I cannot answer. General Washington alone has the power of deciding. Yet,
                     I must say, I doubt whether you will be permitted to go at large for some time.
                     The crime for which you were arrested, as an accomplice complice, is a very serious one. Poison and
                     murder are not crimes that receive pardon early."
                  "And, because a paltry private soldier accuses me of enticing him to poison the
                     rebel General, I am deprived of my liberty, perhaps my life."
                  "That private soldier declared, to the last, that his confession was true, and
                     submitted in the justice of his fate," answered the Ensign, seriously.
                  "Is Hickey DEAD?"
                  "He was hung this morning, at eleven, according to his sentence."
                  "I am sorry for his fate. But it was to be, and I wash my hands of his death—it
                     was of his own seeking.
                  "You are a strange woman," said Ki; "but beware of the end of what you do. As
                     certain as the sun is now shining upon the river, which you can see from this
                     window, there will come a time when all that you have lately done, or have been
                     the cause of doing, in error, will darken hope itself. From my soul I pity you,
                     if it has been a thought or act of yours that brought poor Hickey to the
                     gallows this day."
                  Mrs. Watkins—for so we shall continue to call her—hung down her head whilst the
                     Ensign was speaking; so singular were her thoughts, that, when she looked up to
                     reply, Ki, unnoticed, had left the room, and in his place she found the
                     soldier's wife.
                  As Ki took his way to the quarters of Burnham, he soliloquized somewhat after
                     this fashion:
                  "Watkins must be concealed somewhere in the city, or immediately about it. He
                     is wounded, too, for his blood was tracked to a certain distance. Now that I
                     have ascertained the man really was him, he must not escape. He can only do so
                     by getting on board some of the British ships in the harbor—perhaps he may have
                     done so already; if that's the case, I hardly think he'll venture ashore until
                     Howe and his troops land, for he knows he will be looked after. I must make one
                     more search, and a thorough one."
                  On reaching Burnham's quarters, he found him alone, but traversing the room,
                     under great excitement—indeed, so much so, that he did not perceive the
                     entrance of Ki at all. Now, he would pause, and stamp one foot on the floor,
                     fiercely contracting his brow at the same time; then, again, he would walk
                     farther than before, ever and anon glancing at a letter, which lay open on a
                     table near by.
                  "Why, Captain Harry, what's the matter?" said Ki, with a comical
                     expression—"are you studying one of the plays, which some of the harum-scarum
                     young Maryland officers are getting up, to treat us New Englanders to a real
                     sight of a theatre, or are you under arrest—speak out, can't you?"
                  "Ki—Ki," replied the young officer, in a tone between grief and anger, "d—n all
                     friends."
                  "H-a-a-loo!" said Ki, with a long drawl, and whistling afterwards—"what's to
                     pay now?"
                  "D—n all friends, I say again."
                  "Now, please to leave out that first word, Master Harry Burnham," said Ki, "or
                     I shall think you insane. What, in the name of Moses, ails you, boy?"
                  "Enough," replied Burnham, grinding his teeth—"enough; I am betrayed by my best
                     friend, Frank Fairfax."
                  "Indeed!" said Ki, calmly. "Now, I'm not in the habit of making wagers, but
                     I'll bet you my next month's pay against a new cockade, that you don't believe
                     what you say."
                  "Believe it?—can I not believe his own hand-writing?—here it is, in black and
                     white. He has deceived me, and the world will not convince me to the
                     contrary."
                  "The world, I guess, Harry, won't trouble themselves much about the matter,
                     unless it's of more mighty consequence than I imagine it to be. Come, read how
                     he has betrayed you, and what it's about."
                  "About—about? Why, what should it be about, except—yes—except—but no
                     matter."
                  "But it is some matter to me, Harry; Fairfax and you are like brothers, and I'd
                     like to know, since you've told me so much, how he has betrayed you so far off
                     as Quebec."
                  "Betrayed me in the affections of Mary Manners," said Burnham, drumming on the
                     floor, with his foot, very rapidly.
                  Ki looked at him, for a moment, with the most comical expression of
                     countenance, and then, seating himself, roared with laughter, until the room
                     fairly shook and echoed with his enjoyment. The first impulse of Burnham was to
                     seize hold of a book, for the purpose of throwing it full in the face of Ki,
                     but his better judgment prevailed, and he merely made the motion, as if
                     inclined to do so, This only redoubled the laughter of Ki, until, finally, by
                     the mere force of attraction, as the yawning of one person will make another
                     yawn, Burnham was compelled to join in the laugh himself.
                  At length, the cachinnatory powers of both being somewhat exhausted, reason
                     began to have sway, and Ki first spoke:
                  "Come, come, Harry, that is really good of you—jealous of Frank Fairfax. Poor
                     fellow! how is your pulse?"
                  "Of all things, Ki, don't ridicule me respecting Miss Manners—you well know my
                     feelings towards her."
                  "Yes, I do, Harry; but come, read me the letter, every word of it; let us
                     compare and reason the thing together."
                  Burnham, after locking the door, read as follows:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 QUEBEC, June 4th, 1776.
                              
                              "MY DEAR HARRY—Lieutenant Porterfield, of our corps, having been
                                 permitted by General Carleton to go to New York on business
                                 connected with us prisoners, I have an opportunity to write to you
                                 direct. I have heard nothing from you since you left the camp
                                 before Quebec, which makes me think the two or three letters
                                 written in as many months cannot have reached you.
                              "This being the birth-day of his blessed majesty, King George
                                 Third, I write in the midst of a most infernal discharge of cannon,
                                 from the forts, citadel, and shipping, in the St. Lawrence. It
                                 makes me feel sorry that so much good powder should be wasted by
                                 the enemy, when I know that our side wants it the more.
                              "Before proceeding to private matters, let me give you those of
                                 public interest first. Burgoyne has been here, and I am informed
                                 has gone, or is going, to England, for the purpose of showing the
                                 ministers a plan by which he can conquer us in a single campaign.
                                 His plan, as far as I am capable of judging from some hints, is to
                                 'divide and conquer.' He will find it a sorry business, at any
                                 rate, such is my opinion, and the opinion of all us poor fellows
                                 confined here. Great preparations are making for some move against
                                 the eastern colonies.
                              "Five or six thousand Brunswickers under the command of General the
                                 Baron de Riedesel,*
                                  arrived here a few days ago, in a large fleet of ships and
                                 transports. The Baron did the officers of our little army of
                                 prisoners the honor to pay them a visit, in company with Gen.
                                 Carleton and a large staff. I had the fortune to be present, by
                                 mere accident, for you must know I have more pleasant
                                 quarters elsewhere.
                              
                                 
                                 *He was afterwards taken prisoner by Gates, at Saratoga.
                              
                              "The Baron was very polite and gentlemanly, and speaks English
                                 quite well. He has seen some service in the campaigns in Germany.
                                 He held quite a long conversation with Morgan, and was very
                                 particular in inquiring about the sharp shooting of our riflemen,
                                 of which he had heard so much. The next day he sent a most
                                 bountiful dinner to the officers, with a handsome supply of wine,
                                 and his health was drank in bumpers.
                              "I am told that there are now in Quebec, and its vicinity over
                                 twelve thousand regulars, well supplied in every way, and that they
                                 will rendezvous at the 'Three Rivers,' half way between this place
                                 and Montreal They are under the command of Carleton, Burgoyne,
                                 Philip, Frazer, and Reidesel. A fearful blow will be struck soon
                                 against the few forces we have left in Canada.
                              "From what I can learn, our troops under the command of Sullivan
                                 and Thompson, are at a place called Nicolet. Their numbers I know
                                 nothing about, but presume they cannot amount to more than four or
                                 five thousand. Our leaders should evacuate Canada at once, and when
                                 the British enter our territories, harass them in detail. We are at
                                 present in no situation, I should judge, either in discipline or
                                 equipments, to meet the pride of the English army, now centred here
                                 in the field.
                              "Of Arnold I have heard nothing of late, but imagine he must be
                                 somewhere in the vicinity of Sullivan's command. Although you and I
                                 do not think much of the man, personally, there is no denying his
                                 bravery. General Carleton, although our enemy, has proved himself
                                 to be a very kind and humane soldier. He has treated me in a way I
                                 shall never forget, unless I grow very ungrateful.
                              "There has been some talk of an exchange for a portion of us for
                                 the British officers of the 27th, captured by Montgomery at
                                 Montreal and Chambley. Whether such will be the case or not
                                 immediately, I cannot state. It depends, I believe, upon the
                                 decision of our Congress, at Philadelphia. Some plan should be
                                 adopted, delegating this power to certain officers—as it is, we
                                 have but little chance to be exchanged at present, for we are too
                                 far out of the hearing of that body.
                              "My wounds are very nearly healed, thank God, owing to the kind
                                 treatment received from your old friend and teacher, Dr. Manners,
                                 now the Protestant Bishop of Quebec. As I before wrote you, I was
                                 taken into his dwelling from the prison hospital, and never, never
                                 while life lasts, shall I cease to bless him from the bottom of my
                                 heart.
                              "But another being, an angel, if there can exist such spirits in
                                 the human frame, has been my watchful nurse day and night. But for
                                    her, life would have been hardly worth preserving.
                                 When in pain and agony, her presence soothed and kept down all
                                 rising grief. I seemed to feel that a ministering spirit hovered
                                 round, to guard and protect me from all danger and harm. The sound
                                 of her voice awakened rapture and delight, her footsteps fell upon
                                 my ear with instant recognition of her presence, and her smile was
                                 as pleasant to me as the sunbeam to the stormbound mariner.
                              "Ah! Harry, to know MARY MANNERS, were worth being a
                                 wounded captive for years. As I gradually grew better, and spring
                                 came in, her worthy father procured permission from Sir Guy
                                 Carleton that I might be driven by my servant, Marc, outside of the
                                 walls, in one of the cabriolets
                                 of the country, with the diminutive ponies, so strong, fast and
                                 tough. On many of these excursions, Miss Manners accompanied us,
                                 and the hours flew by like minutes when she was with us.
                              "Often and often have we talked of you—her dear
                                 brother, as she calls you—the companion of her earlier
                                 recollections—her playfellow, and her school companion. Then her
                                 words fall eloquent with praise of your noble and eloquent nature,
                                 to which I, my gallant friend, answer with a heart-felt 'Amen!' I
                                 love you with an affection as strongly as she does—the affection of
                                 a brother—and hope soon to test it when we meet.
                              "You may think me dead in love—I am, and I know of no one who would
                                 wish me cheerfully more success in winning the heart of Mary
                                 Manners than yourself. Day before yesterday, I came very near
                                 popping the question, and should have done so, but for the entrance
                                 of a relative of hers, a man whom she detests and despises, Major
                                 Adair. We are all given to a little self-confidence, and, if I am
                                 not very much mistaken, Miss Manners has some respect for me.
                                    That I wish to kindle into love.
                              "By Jove, Harry! it would be a glorious conquest to win her heart
                                 and hand. So lovely, kind and generous a maiden would be worth more
                                 to me than all the laurels I might win in a dozen campaigns, And
                                 then, Harry, she is such a capital rebel, and loves the cause of
                                 her country so well. Sir Guy Carleton told her, in my presence, the
                                 other day, 'that he feared more from a rebel like her in gaining
                                 over the king's officers, than the charge of a division of Porterfield starts in a
                                 few moments on his journey, so I must finish after a few lines
                                 more. It is supposed he will return immediately after visiting
                                 Congress, if any exchanges are to be allowed upon the footing
                                 offered by Sir Guy. Be sure and write by him, if he does return—if
                                 not, by any opportunity that offers. Morgan, Dearborn, Bigelow, and
                                 the rest, send their kindest respects. Remember me to Burr, and,
                                 last, though not least, to Ensign Ki. Tell him that
                                 his daring escape from Quebec elicited the warmest praise from the
                                 enemy.
                              
                                 Yours, fraternally,
                                 "FRANK FAIRFAX."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "Now, what think you?" said Burnham, throwing the letter, madly, on the
                     table.
                  "To tell the truth," replied Ki, very gravely, "my dear boy, that you and
                     Fairfax are both fools!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  It was near dark when a boat left the beach or landing-place near Fort Lee,
                     then in process of erection, for New York. The boat contained two officers and
                     six soldiers as rowers. In passing down, the boat was kept near the Jersey
                     shore, where the tide did not run so strong as on the "Island City" side.
                  "'Tis a lovely night," said one of the officers. "Look, Burr, at that star,
                     Venus, I suppose, how lustrous it appears to-night."—
                  "By Jove! Hamilton, you are right; Venus is exceedingly lustrous to-night, and
                     reminds me of a little engagement I have this evening, a proper one to occur
                     under a planet so amorous as she was in mythology, whose name yonder star
                     bears."
                  "Beware, Burr, of such meetings. It is already a marked trait in your
                     character, and noticed much, that you pay too great attention to females given
                     to levity, though innocent themselves."
                  "Innocent, themselves!" said the young voluptuary, with a sneering curl of his
                     lip; "good, you have been taking lessons of the last Puritan New England
                     chaplain that has reached camp, I think."
                  "No, no, Burr, I do not speak to you as a Mentor, but merely to advise as a
                     comrade. At our age impressions and habits take deep root. I judge from my own
                     experience, and endeavor to correct them as well as I am able."
                  "Well, good Sandy, pursue your own course, and I will mine. The other sex were
                     made for us, and I shall act upon that principle. Why, a pretty woman I could
                     no more leave, than a bee would fly away from a honied spring blossom, except
                     when cloyed."
                  "Yes, but it is when the bee becomes overladen with sweets, that the bird
                     overtakes and devours him. Take heed then; what is only a passion now, becomes,
                     finally, a grievous fault. Look forth in time."
                  "Ha! ha! good again, my dear fellow. Go on. I suppose our stern, conscientious
                     General-in-Chief has said I am a sad youngster. He hinted as much to me, in his
                     cool, icy manner."
                  "No, Burr. General Washington has never said a word disparagingly of you, to my
                     knowledge; but he is a quick and close observer of character and libertinism on
                     the part of those about him, and all such, I am confident, will be frowned
                     upon."
                  "Be it so. I am no longer in his military family; I am now in Putnam's staff,
                     or shall be to-morrow, as you are aware."
                  "True, Burr; but still you have a character at stake, promotion, and all
                     that."
                  "My military duties have nothing to do with my private affairs."
                  "You think so, truly?"
                  "Truly, I do."
                  "Then, let me tell you, you are wrong. To a soldier the honor of his private
                     character should be as bright as his sword. You will yet think so."
                  "All fudge, Hamilton."
                  "It may be fudge to you, Burr. It would not be to me under the same
                     circumstances."
                  "Fudge, again. You like a pretty face as well as any one."
                  "I do. But I like that face innocent; without virtue, a face can never be in my
                     sight beautiful."
                  "Do you not think Miss Moncrieff beautiful?"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *She was the daughter of Major Moncrieff, of the British army, and at this
                        time residing as a kind of prisoner in General Putnam's family, her
                        father being with the British army, on Staten Island. She was afterwards
                        married to Lieutenant Patrick Coghlan, and figured in the amours of some
                        of the royal Dukes. It is supposed her first 
                           liason
                           liaison
                         was with Burr. He was then nineteen, she fifteen.
                  
                  "Certainly, she is a charming Miss, and shame on any one that would do her
                     wrong."
                  "The very young lady I am to meet to-night, my dear fellow. She is charming,
                     beautiful, delightful, oh! rapturous, and you ought to envy me."
                  "Not to do her wrong."
                  "Wrong! I did not say that such was my purpose. You are too personal."
                  "There is no personality in speaking right that ever I heard before, nor can I
                     believe that you intend any harm to the young lady."
                  Burr made no immediate reply, but looked up at the star which first brought the
                     conversation forth, now glowing brighter and brighter, as the shades of evening
                     gathered round. It was somewhat strange that these two young
                     officers, who afterwards occupied such distinguished but opposite party
                     stations in the country, should at such a time be together and sailing past the
                     very spot, where, thirty years later, one was to fall, on the bloody field of
                     honor, and by the hand of the other.
                  And it was still more strange that a conversation of the kind should be going
                     on between them, where the principles of the one appeared in such contra
                     distinction to the other. It is not to be denied that Burr held his moral
                     character, even in early youth, to be of little value, and as he grew lax in
                     one thing, perhaps it made him more desperate in all. He never made any
                     concealment of his chief faults, in this, at least, he had the merit of
                     frankness.
                  "Well, Hamilton," Burr said, after a pause of some duration, "we will drop the
                     subject, and converse upon matters more pertinent to our profession. What think
                     you of the work they are building on Harlem Heights?"
                  "You mean Fort Washington?"
                  "Yes, the redoubt that Mifflin*
                        is throwing up, under the engineership of Col. Rufus Putnam."
                  
                     
                     *General Thomas Mifflin, who commanded the Pennsylvania Brigade. After the
                        death of Benjamin Franklin, he became President of Pennsylvania, and died
                        in 1800.
                  
                  "Some of the best of the officers think it tenable, others do not. It is yet
                     uncertain, if the attack is made on the city, whether it will be held or not by
                     our forces."
                  "Do you wish to hear my opinion as to its holding out against an enemy,
                     Hamilton?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Then two days will be the utmost period that it can hold out against the
                     forces that Howe will bring before it. It is utterly indefensible according to
                     Vauban, or any of the French engineers, whose works I have read on the
                     construction of fortifications."
                  It should be remembered that Burr, even up to the last days of his old age,
                     thought more of his military abilities, than his well-known civil and legal
                     qualifications. He was in the army about four years altogether, and his energy
                     as a disciplinarian, as well as his studies in the art of war were profound. He
                     resigned in 1779, when Lieutenant Colonel of Malcolm's New York regiment,
                     though actually Colonel, as far as duties went, for Malcolm was an old man, a
                     nominal Colonel, merely reviewing the regiment now and then.
                  Burr, at the head of this regiment, performed some very gallant services,
                     particularly at Monmouth and on the Westchester lines. Though his resignation
                     was made under the apparent plea of failing health, the cause was, in reality,
                     one of disappointed ambition. He thought that Washington had never given him
                     proper credit for his services, and he gradually began to dislike that great
                     man. In the famous Conway conspiracy, to deprive Washington of the chief
                     command of the army, and place Gates in power, he took sides with the Gates
                     party, though cautiously.
                  The reason of Burr's after conduct, in the political history of our country,
                     had its origin at a remoter period than is usually thought of. There is no
                     doubt, whatever, that his dislike of Washington, from the cause mentioned, and
                     the favoritism, if the term may be used, displayed by that General towards
                     Hamilton, throughout the revolution and in after life, in making him the chief
                     member of his cabinet, and apparently paving the way for higher honors, made
                     Burr join the opposite party, which arose even before the death of Washington,
                     and created a deep and burning hatred of Hamilton, which ended in the fatal
                     duel that deprived the latter of his life.
                  But our story must go back to its original period.
                  "You have studied Vauban well, Burr; they say, in the army, that, for your age,
                     you understand the duties of a soldier better than any other officer of the
                     line. Promotion is before you—the circumstances by which it is to be brought
                     forth rest with yourself."
                  "Still preaching, Hamilton. Why to me so particularly—am I worse than the rest
                     of our comrades, that you should thus speak?"
                  "To tell the truth, Burr, you need advice more. I and you are both of age, and,
                     therefore, I can speak with freedom as an equal. Possessing talents of uncommon
                     order and strength, you have blemishes that threaten their destruction. Curb
                     them now. Believe me friendly in what I say, for I am your
                     friend."
                  "Stop, Hamilton, this is foolish stuff, and, as I said before, let us drop it.
                     May we always be friendly, come what will in after life."
                  As the last word dropped from the lips of Burr, a deep groan was heard from the
                     shore, and struck a heavy chill, as it were, over the spirits of all in the
                     boat. At an order given from Hamilton, who held the rudder, the boat was run up
                     to the bank, in the direction of the sound of the voice.
                  It will be remembered that the spot described in a previous chapter was on the
                     Jersey shore, below Bull's Ferry, where the "Rattlesnake's Den" was situated.
                     It was on the beach beneath the cliffs that the boat struck, and the two young
                     officers, followed by part of the rowers, leaped out.
                  "Listen," said Burr—"it was near by the sound came."
                  "Yes," answered Hamilton; "if the groan is not repeated, we will search."
                  A minute did not elapse before the sound was again heard, evidently but a few
                     yards off, and the party, proceeding in the direction, found the bruised frame
                     of Van Tassel, lifeless, to all appearances, except from the groans which now
                     and then came from him insensibly.
                  "He must have fallen from the cliffs above," said Hamilton. "Lift him up
                     carefully, men, and take him to the boat. Perhaps his life may be saved."
                  "Men don't fall from cliffs with ropes around their necks," replied Burr. "See
                     how it is attached to this broken branch. There has been some foul play going
                     on here, depend upon it."
                  The men lifted up the insensible body and conveyed it to the boat, the officers
                     conversing in brief whispers, and looking up the high and precipitous rocky
                     banks, now gloomily visible in the darkness of the night. After a little while,
                     orders were given to the men in the boat to remain still for a short time, and
                     the two soldiers quietly made their way up the bank.
                  "Have you no other weapon except your sword, Burr?" whispered Hamilton to his
                     comrade.
                  "That is all," was the reply. "Have you, Hamilton?"
                  "No; but there are two of us, and we need merely reconnoitre to-night. We have
                     only to be cautious, and, I think, we can get at this mystery. This is probably
                     the haunt of some tory gang."
                  
                  The officers proceeded to climb, as well as they were able in the gloom of the
                     night, their way up the hill. Not knowing the path, rude as it was, they made
                     slow progress in the ascent, now falling over rocks, stepping into bushes of
                     briars, or striking their heads against the branches of the trees.
                  "Let us stop and rest a little, Hamilton—our journey is not a very pleasant
                     one."
                  "No. Hark, do you not hear a noise?"
                  Burr listened for a moment, and said he did hear a faint sound, something like
                     the wind through the tops of trees.
                  "No, nothing of that kind. The sound is that of human voices, joining, now and
                     then, in chorus. Hark! now you hear the full swell."
                  In fact, a number of voices were heard piercing the woods and scrubby trees,
                     down the rocky hill-side, and then suddenly dying away, as if the song was
                     ended, but again the sound rose, evidently the choristers to a song from a
                     single individual.
                  "Let us get nearer, Hamilton, there is something strange going on in the
                     neighborhood."
                  And, truly, there was something strange. The inmates of the "Rattlesnake's Den"
                     were carousing after their bloody deed, "deed to the death," as they supposed,
                     done upon Van Tassel. The two young men approached as near the place as they
                     supposed safe, for they knew, by the sound of the voices, there could not be
                     less than some twenty persons congregated within.
                  Noisy, indeed, they were—more noisy than wise. The keg of liquor which Josh had
                     brought from the boat was getting lower and lower, and there appeared to be a
                     determination on the part of those present to finish it. Of the countenances or
                     knowledge of any inside, the young officers knew nothing—they judged of the
                     character of the inmates by what they heard from the place where they stood.
                     The song was a mere doggerel, probably the production of one of the inmates. It
                     read thus:— 
                        
                           We are jolly lads of a jolly king,
                           His name is George Third, royal;
                           The rebels, let 'em shout and sing,
                           We follow the man that's loyal;
                           The rebels are a lousy set,
                           The royal troops will lick 'em yet,
                           And make 'em run and tare and fret;
                           Hurrah! for George Third, royal.
                           
                              Chorus.—Then here's to the king,
                           The good young king—
                           God bless his cannon and mortars—
                           Oh! long may we live,
                           His praise to sing—
                           Likewise his sons and his daughters.
                        
                        
                           A great man is the British king,
                           America, too, he rules,
                           The Spaniards he whips like everything,
                           And the Frenchmen treats like fools.
                           One foot it rests upon the land,
                           The other doth the sea command,
                           Gibraltar groups with his right hand.
                           Hurrah! for George Third, royal.
                           
                              Chorus.—Then here's to the king,
                           The good young king—
                           God bless his cannon and mortars—
                           Oh! long may we live,
                           His praise to sing—
                           Likewise his sons and his daughters.
                        
                     
                  
                  Such was the tenor of the song heard by the officers, and the chorus rung out
                     through the still night air, startling everything of the bird and beast kind in
                     the vicinity of the "Rattlesnake's Den."
                  "A set of tory land pirates of the worst kind, I think, Burr."
                  "Yes, and the murderers of that unfortunate being, if he should die, we picked
                     up, under the cliffs. But we are not in force, sufficient to be of any service
                     now, we can mark the spot, and to-morrow come with a force sufficient to clear
                     out the whole nest."
                  "Hark! the singing has ceased, and there are words of anger between some of the
                     parties."
                  This was true. Watkins, sick in his bunk, had borne the noise of the carouse as
                     long as possible, and dreading that it might be heard far off by those who were
                     not friendly, and thus lead to the discovery of all of them, remonstrated in
                     strong language through the door of the apartment.
                  "Mind your own business," was the cry of one of the parties, "if you don't like
                     us, leave the den, that's all," and the speaker hiccuped with drunkenness.
                  "Insolent rascal," replied Watkins, in his anger, "you know that I am unable to
                     rise, or you would not dare use such language to me."
                  "To you, ba!" answered the man, in his drunken anger, who was no other than
                     Dirck Jauncey, the fellow that had been the most instrumental of all the gang
                     in hanging up Van Tassel. "We'll see about that, come boys, let's see if this
                     Britisher is to lord it over us, if we be kings or Americans," and, staggering,
                     he rose up, to make his way into the room where Watkins was lying.
                  The tall form of Mother Gatchell, who, till then, had, amid all the uproar,
                     been in apparent slumber on a bench, strode into the doorway, and lifting an
                     axe, she exclaimed, in her Amazonian tones,
                  "Dirck Jauncey, if you stir one step towards that sick man, I'll cut you down
                     as I would an oak sapling. You always make a disturbance when drunk; lie down
                     in a corner, till you get sober, you ugly whelp."
                  "Ho! ho! Mother Gatchell, that's your talk, is it. Now, I will go
                     in, and what's more, I won't submit to your government of the 'Den' any longer.
                     Now, boys, let's declare our rights, and not be the slaves of this d—d old hag
                     any longer."
                  This language was the signal for a general outbreak, the men dividing into
                     about equal parties for and against Mother Gatchell, and the uproar, blows and
                     confusion within, sounded to the young officers as if a legion of devils were
                     engaged in some infernal conflict.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  When Burnham heard the remark of Ki, "you and Fairfax are both fools," he felt
                     as might be supposed, more angry than ever, but a glance at Ki's half smiling
                     face moderated his anger somewhat.
                  "What do you mean?" he said.
                  "Simply that any two men falling in love with one woman must be
                     fools."
                  "Pshaw, you know nothing of the true affections of the heart."
                  "Affections of a drumstick. No, I take that back, I have some affection for the
                     drumstick of a fat turkey, when cooked."
                  "Do you know that Mary Manners and I have long been attached to each
                     other?"
                  "Yes, master Harry, like a couple of school children, or something of that
                     sort. Now, what reason have you to suppose she ever had any other feeling than
                     that kind of friendship, which takes its rise from early association, for
                     you?"
                  "But to be cut out by Fairfax, that galls me, Ki."
                  "Cut out by Fairfax—why, my boy, you are mad. Suppose the girl, and a noble one
                     she is, too, takes a liking for him, and he returns it, what business may it be
                     of yours?"
                  "But she loves me."
                  "Yes, like a brother."
                  "More than that, Ki."
                  "Now let me ask you one thing, Harry. I know nothing about love, as you call
                     it. My friends I love much, but this love, this baby play between grown up boys
                     and girls I know nothing about, nor do I want to know. Now think a moment with
                     some little reason, did you really ever feel towards Mary Manners this kind of
                     baby stuff, or was it not rather affection?"
                  "But, Ki, when we were mere boy or girl, together, did I not use to call her my
                     little wife."
                  "Well, what then. I begin to see that jealousy has something to do with this
                     matter."
                  "Jealousy? What do you mean?"
                  "Plainly this, you think Mary Manners has no right to love any one but yourself
                     For that reason you feel angry at your best friend, Fairfax; now is it not
                     so?"
                  Burnham felt a little puzzled—really when he came to look into his own heart,
                     and truly know the difference between love and affection, he began to doubt his
                     feelings in a measure. He loved Miss Manners with a sincere and ardent
                     affection, which had its origin in early association. Still he did not feel
                     willing to confess a right answer to the question of Ki.
                  "Why, have we two not been the same as engaged, from the earliest period when
                     we could esteem one another?"
                  "Never that I heard of. I know what esteem is, but I tell you again, that I
                     know nothing about this baby love."
                  "Baby love, Ki, I think you take me for an infant."
                  "Well, I do in this matter, most decidedly. But look, my boy, there is another
                     letter on the table, which you appear not to have opened. It looks to me to be
                     the handwriting of Mary Manners."
                  "It is, Ki, and I wonder where my stupid eyes were in the meanwhile;" he tore
                     open the letter, which we take the liberty of transcribing.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "QUEBEC, JUNE, 1776.
                              
                              "MY DEAR FRIEND AND BROTHER, HARRY:—A direct opportunity offers of
                                 writing you, the first chance I have had to let you know anything
                                 about us, since good and clever Ki Lane escaped from Quebec, the
                                 morning of the unfortunate attack. Tell him that his courage on
                                 that occasion has been highly praised, even by his enemies, and Sir
                                 Guy Carleton told me himself, that the rebel rogue deserved to get
                                 clear, he proved himself a gallant fellow.
                              "After the attack, papa went to the hospital, fearing that you
                                 might be among the wounded officers, and you may know how glad we
                                 were, to find that you was not among them nor even a prisoner. He
                                 did find, however, a friend of yours, one of your very best
                                 friends, Harry, Captain Fairfax, from Virginia, your classmate at
                                 Yale College.
                              "For your sake he was brought to our residence, where we have done
                                 all we can to make him well and comfortable. He has so far
                                 recovered as to be able to ride about, and is momently expecting to
                                 be exchanged. I like him very much, he is kind, gentlemanly and
                                 noble-hearted, and then he speaks so well of you. I
                                 did hear Sir Guy's niece, the principal belle of Quebec, say she
                                 thought him the handsomest man in the town. This, when there are so
                                 many British officers here, was certainly a very high
                                 compliment.
                              "Poor General Montgomery's body was found in the snow, beside his
                                 aids. My good father saw them all placed in suitable coffins, and I
                                 made their shrouds, over which I dropped many a tear. I could not
                                 help it, for they belonged to my country. Although, as you well
                                 know, opposed to their cause, father himself performed the burial
                                 services at the spot where they were buried. I had a lock of hair
                                 cut from the General's head, which you will find enclosed in a
                                 separate note. Don't fail to send it immediately to his wife, who I
                                 am told was a Miss Livingston, of the Manor on the Hudson.
                              "For a woman to write about military affairs, is novel. But I
                                 consider it my duty, as a lover of your and my native land. England
                                 is making a desperate effort to strike a blow, by the way of the
                                 Canadas, and it is necessary that the good Washington should
                                 prepare in time. At this moment, nearly ten thousand troops are
                                 here, and more arriving every day.
                              "As I hear some of the Generals say, the campaign may not open
                                 until next spring, but with the usual boast, that, when it does
                                 open, we poor Americans are to be marched over like so many poor
                                 ants. However, as the old saying goes, 'there is many a slip 'twixt
                                 the cup and the lip,' and I trust such may be the case now.
                              "When have you heard from dear Oakdale? I do so long to see the
                                 good old place again, that, were it possible, I would go on foot
                                 from Quebec, the whole way, to be there once more. But, alas! that
                                 is impossible. War, desolating war, is raging all over the
                                 country—when, or how, to end, God only knows. That its close may be
                                 honorable for our country, is my prayer at all times. These
                                 sentiments may savor a little of the masculine to you, but why has
                                 not woman a right to express press herself as firmly patriotic as
                                 the stronger sex?
                              "Another thing—to subdue us, large numbers of German troops are
                                 accumulating here by every arrival. This buying a mercenary army is
                                 most contemptible, and makes me believe that the war is not
                                 popular, even in England. What harm have we ever done these foreign
                                 troops, that they should come over the water to murder us?—for,
                                 acting only for hire, what lives they take can be considered as
                                 only murder. Even dear father, strong a king's man as he is, speaks
                                 of the hiring of these troops as disreputable in the extreme.
                              "Captain Fairfax, who is writing on the opposite side of the table,
                                 says he has finished his letter, so I must hasten to end mine. We
                                 made a small wager as to who would complete their epistle first,
                                 so, you perceive, I am beaten. Don't fail to give my best love to
                                 your parents, when you write to them. Expecting to hear from you
                                 quickly, in answer, I remain—
                              
                                 "Sincerely and affectionately,
                                 "MARY MANNERS.
                              
                           
                           
                              "P. S.—Tell Ki he must be on his guard. Watkins, Major Adair's man,
                                 has been gone from here several days, and, as far as I can
                                 ascertain, his destination is New York. I know the intense
                                    love he has for the other."
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  After Burnham had finished the letter, which he had read aloud to Ki, he looked
                     at the latter, as if expecting some remarks from him.
                  "I'll have him," said Ki, who had been playing with his sword knot.
                  "In what way?" eagerly inquired Burnham.
                  "By finding out the place of his concealment."
                  "Whose concealment?"
                  "Why, Watkins, to be sure."
                  "Pshaw, I thought you were speaking of Fairfax."
                  "Do get this nonsense out of your head, Harry, and be a man, as well as a
                     soldier. If Miss Manners prefers Fairfax to you, do not mind it. He wins a fine
                     girl, and that is the end of it."
                  "Sensibly spoken, Ki—it shall be so. Perhaps I felt a deeper attachment for
                     Mary than I really supposed was in me; but it is over now, and this matter is
                     ended forever."
                  "Now you are yourself, my dear boy," said Ki, rising, and taking Harry's hand,
                     whilst his honest, but strongly marked, features glowed with satisfaction.
                     Burnham returned the grasp without saying a word, but the tears stood in his
                     eye, speaking "more eloquently than words." The two were interrupted from
                     conversation by the entrance of an Orderly, demanding their attendance at
                     head-quarters.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  We must now return to the interior of the "Rattlesnake's Den," outside of
                     which, our readers will recollect, we left Burr and his companion listening to
                     the uproar and noise within.
                  Of course, the two sons of Mother Gatchell took sides with their mother, and
                     they drew over with them nearly half the party. Dirck Jauncey was the opposing
                     leader, and, as he advanced to enter the room where Watkins lay, with a cry of
                     "come on, boys," he was struck on the shoulder and badly wounded by the
                     descending axe of Mother Gatchell, the blow knocking him down.
                  His fall was the signal for a desperate fight between all the parties.
                     Fortunately, no weapons, except fists, were used, although in the room, as
                     before stated, were numbers of loaded muskets and cutlasses. Even Mother
                     Gatchell, unmindful of her sex, and disdaining to use her axe further, seized a
                     birch broom, and, plying it lustily, made a serious breach in the ranks of her
                     opponents, knocking them down, right and left, with as much celerity as an
                     Irishman displays at Donnybrook Fair.
                  Victory finally declared itself on her side, the others, with cracked heads and
                     broken noses, sullenly surrendering one after another. Then, like another
                     Hannibal at Cannae, or Scipio at Zama, she harangued the conquerors and
                     conquered somewhat in this manner:
                  "Look here, boys, I've seen this rebellion underway for some time, and now we
                     understand each other. I'm a woman of few words, but, I want you to understand,
                     I'm Queen of the 'den' and Captain of the gang—there's no mistake about
                     that.
                  "That rebellions chap you see lying there hasn't got half his deserts—if he
                     had, he'd been kilt by me, which I might have did, but didn't. Now, if you or
                     he dare to raise a finger against my authority, I'll act towards you like King
                     George, and hang every mother's son of you.
                  "Now, mind, I've said it, and I mean it, and any one that knows Mother
                     Gatchell, knows that she keeps her word, and bitterly, too, to some, I reckon
                     of.
                  "There, lift up Dirck, put him in his bunk, and, in the morning, I'll see to
                     his wound, if he is any way decent behaved."
                  Her followers, and recent enemies, crestfallen, obeyed her with alacrity, and
                     placed the insensible man in his sleeping place.
                  Mother Gatchell now went into the room where Watkins was lying, who, during the
                     fray, (being, in consequence of his wounds, unable to take part,) had felt no
                     common emotion as to the issue.
                  "So, Mother Gatchell, victory has crowned your efforts again."
                  "Victory, Sergeant—when did you ever know me to do otherwise but win a
                     fight?"
                  "Never—you ought to have a command in the king's army at once."
                  "I've known commanders, in my time, Sergeant, that I think wasn't as good as
                     me."
                  "No doubt of it. I have a favor to ask."
                  "Well, what is it. If it can be done, Sergeant, you know I'm a friend in
                     need."
                  "Did not one or two of the king's ships go up the river yesterday?"
                  "Yes, I seed 'em sailing up."
                  "Where do you suppose they are now?"
                  "I guess about Tappan Bay."
                  "Well, can you have me put on board some way, I'll pay well for it?"
                  "Why, Sergeant, don't you think the 'Den' is a safe place for you."
                  "Not so much as a king's ship, besides, my word will be better attended
                     to."
                  "It will be a dangerous attempt, Sergeant. The rebels have boats going up and
                     down all the while."
                  "I've a will to try the risk, Mother Gatchell."
                  "Let me see; there's Dirck Jauncey, he's a good boatman, the best of the gang;
                     but then he's wounded, and may not prove over favorable, now we've had the
                     quarrel. Josh and Jotham, with one other, might try it."
                  "Then let them do it, and I'll give them ten gold guineas, and pay them in
                     advance."
                  "Well, I'll see about it. It would be safer for you to start to-night. With the
                     tide and wind in your favor, you might reach the bay by morning."
                  "Then attend to it at once, Mother Gatchell, for, to tell you the truth, I do
                     not feel safe here another day. The quarrel with your gang will make some of
                     them betray you, and I would advise you to be on your guard."
                  "Oh! never fear me as to that. Couldn't you make it fifteen guineas, instead of
                     ten, Sergeant? The men would undertake it quicker."
                  "Fifteen it shall be then, and let me know quickly."
                  The old woman went out of the room, and was soon in conversation with her two
                     sons and another of the gang.
                  "Now, lads," she continued, after explaining the request of Watkins, "what say
                     you? I think it's as easy to get twenty guineas from him, as fifteen, and then
                     there'll be the more to divide amongst us."
                  "Well, mother," said Jotham, "you step in and tell him, if he'll give us twenty
                     guineas, we'll undertake it, though it's a bad undertaking, at best."
                  The old woman did as requested. Watkins was too anxious to get away, to
                     hesitate about the price; the money was paid over, and it was understood that
                     the boat should be ready in an hour's time, to convey the Sergeant on his way
                     up the river. Indeed, so anxious was he to leave, he would have departed at
                     once, had it been practicable.
                  We must now return to the young officers outside, who stood within a few yards
                     of the 'den.' When the noise ceased so suddenly within, they hesitated what
                     course to take.
                  "The row is over, Hamilton," said his companion, in a low tone. "What is best
                     to be done?"
                  "Return to our boat, we can do nothing, but in the morning, with a company of
                     troops, we may capture the whole party."
                  "Let us get a little nearer, the night is too dark to be discovered."
                  Both advanced cautiously to the back end of the half cabin, half cave, and a
                     small chink permitted Burr to look in. It was the exact time when Watkins was
                     paying Mother Gatchell the twenty guineas agreed upon. He could not hear what
                     was said, they spoke in such low tones, but everything in the apartment was
                     plainly visible.
                  "There's a scene for a painter," he said, in a whisper, "the fellow paying the
                     money looks for all the world, like a bandit, and that hag a fit companion for
                     the devil himself. Look for yourself."
                  "Yes, they are two ugly-looking beings. The man has a face hardened enough for
                     any thing wrong or desperate. But I do not see anything of the others. Where
                     are they?"
                  "In the room adjoining, probably, see the two men entering from it."
                  Josh and Jotham were the persons that entered, for the purpose of arranging
                     matters with Watkins, as to his embarking. This was soon concluded upon, and
                     they again left. The two officers now thought it prudent to retire to their
                     boat, which they did in safety, and were soon on their way to New York.
                  Watkins, with his usual good fortune, again was saved. In an hour's time, the
                     boat had been got ready, and he was carried down to the boat, though suffering
                     severely from his wound. But this he did not mind, he felt at ease in regard to
                     his life, for he knew that it was safe the instant he reached the British
                     vessel.
                  Day was just beginning to dawn when they reached the sloop of war, Roebuck,
                     then lying at anchor in Tappan Bay, where she had gone the day before. He was
                     speedily taken on board, and Jotham, Josh and their companion, took their way
                     once more down the river for the "Rattlesnake's Den."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  Among the prisoners taken at Montreal, by Montgomery, when that place
                     surrendered, in the fall of 1775, was Lieutenant John Andre, of the
                     twenty-ninth regiment. A battalion of that regiment had been stationed there,
                     and this young officer was among the number taken. It may not be out of place
                     here to give some little history of him, as his name will ever live in the
                     annals of our country as the victim of the arch traitor, Arnold.
                  His ancestors, as his name, Andre, will indicate, were natives of France, but
                     his father was born in Geneva, Switzerland, to which place his grandfather had
                     emigrated from Rochelle, at the time of the revolution of the edict of Nantz by
                     Louis XIV, a measure which did more to injure the fame of that successful
                     monarch than any other thing done by him during his long career of glory. This
                     edict drove the Protestants out of France.
                  The father of Andre removed to London, and became a merchant in the eastern or
                     Levant trade, bringing his son up to the same profession. It should be
                     remembered, however, that John Andre himself was born in London, in 1749, and
                     received a part of his education in Geneva. In the year 1759, the elder Andre
                     died, leaving somewhat of a fortune
                     tune to a large family,*
                      and John gave up the mercantile profession for one more congenial to
                     his feelings, by purchasing a Lieutenant's commission in the twenty-ninth
                     regiment, in the year 1771, as soon as he became of age.
                  
                     
                     *Major Andre's last surviving sister, Miss Mary Ann Andre, died in London,
                        in 1845, aged 91.
                  
                  Little could he have supposed what would be his after fate, when, in the first
                     year of manhood, he became an officer in the British army! Be that, however,
                     what it was, he has left a name behind, which is never mentioned but with pity
                     for the fate of one so gallant.
                  Nature had gifted him with a mind far above ordinary abilities. He was a poet
                     of much talent—sang, and played beautifully on several instruments—was
                     well-read in the classic and modern languages, and he possessed, besides, all
                     the bearing and manners of a well-bred gentleman. In stature, he was rather
                     small, but his figure was symmetrical, and his countenance, without being
                     strictly handsome, beamed with—what we consider far superior to
                     beauty—intelligence.
                  His attachment to Honoria Sneyd, who afterwards became the wife of Richard
                     Edgeworth, and mother of the two Miss Edgeworths, the authoresses, is well
                     known. It is generally supposed that they were at one time engaged to be
                     married.
                  He first landed in the colonies in 1774, at Philadelphia, from whence he
                     proceeded to Canada, to join a portion of his regiment, the Royal Welsh
                        Fusileers.+
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     +The late General Samuel Smith, of Baltimore, Colonel in the army of the
                        revolution, was a brother passenger from London. He always spoke of Andre
                        in the highest terms.
                  
                  Fairfax and Miss Manners were sitting by a window of one of those old
                     looped-holed houses of Quebec, looking out upon the St. Lawrence, when a
                     servant announced "Captain Andre, of the twenty-ninth." As neither the young
                     lady nor Fairfax were acquainted with such an officer, they were somewhat
                     surprised at the visit, particularly as he entered the apartment
                     unaccompanied.
                  A single glance, however, was sufficient to indicate the bearing of the officer
                     and the gentleman. Advancing with cap in hand, his uniform of scarlet with
                     green facings glistening in the light, and his mouth arched with a smile, he
                     said, as he reached the centre of the room:
                  "I presume I have the pleasure of addressing Miss Manners?"
                  "That is my name, sir," she replied, rising.
                  "Do not blame me for want of etiquette, Miss Manners, in introducing myself. I
                     am Captain John Andre, of the army."
                  "Captain Andre is welcome to my father's roof. This gentleman, sir, is Captain
                     Fairfax, of the Virginia Rifles, though at large as you see, yet a
                     prisoner."
                  "No longer a prisoner, Miss Manners, I am happy to say. This letter, from Sir
                     Guy Carleton, declares his exchange for your humble servant, lately from New
                     York. I have been released from durance vile by order of the Congress, for
                     Captain Francis Fairfax, of Morgan's Riflemen, who I am now most proud and
                     happy to meet."
                  "Captain Fairfax is most happy to meet Captain Andre," said Fairfax,
                     "particularly when he bears such news as that just related."
                  "Sir," replied Andre, "there is the letter of exchange, properly authenticated,
                     as you will perceive on perusal. You are now free to take up arms on the side
                     you have espoused. A born subject of his most gracious Majesty, I despise rebel
                     principles."
                  "Truth and fidelity to one's country," answered Fairfax, "does not rest with
                     kings. It is yet to be learned whether the people in the mass have not
                     sovereign rights superior to the sovereignty of one. But no more of politics,
                     if you please—when we meet elsewhere as soldiers meet, then we
                     will discuss the subject according to our respective opinions."
                  "Very rightly spoken, my dear Captain," said Andre, and he grasped Fairfax
                     firmly by the hand, "we will let these differences of opinion cease.
                     By-the-bye, I am the bearer of a packet to you from a young officer of your
                     army that I met in New York, on my way hither, and aid of the General-in-Chief,
                     Washington. I liked him much as a gentleman, an officer, and a man."
                  "From Harry Burnham?" eagerly inquired Fairfax.
                  "Yes, the same. You and I are both much indebted to him for our mutual
                     exchange."
                  Mary Manners, when Andre had mentioned to Fairfax that he brought with him the
                     letter of his exchange, felt in her heart an emotion she had never before
                     experienced. What could be the cause? Was it really one of joy that Fairfax was
                     free? Or was it rather from the reason that he was no longer a prisoner—a
                     companion? At any rate, her heart beat with some emotion.
                  When the name of Burnham was mentioned by Andre, she raised her eyes, and saw
                     the latter give to Fairfax a packet, which he opened. Two letters were
                     contained in the envelope, one of which Fairfax handed to her, saying:
                  "Miss Manners, there is a letter for you from Harry. His handwriting is so
                     familiar to me that I could tell it anywhere. This one is for myself."
                  "Do not," said Andre, "let my presence detain either of you from perusing the
                     letters. There should be no etiquette on such occasions."
                  Without hesitation, Fairfax broke the seal, and commenced reading his letter at
                     once, whilst Miss Manners retired for the purpose of reading the letter to her
                     alone. Here is the letter to Fairfax:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "CAMP, NEW YORK, JULY 14, 1776.
                              
                              "MY DEAR FAIRFAX—Your letter of the 4th ult. was duly received. I
                                 was certainly most glad to hear that you had recovered from your
                                 wound and were getting well rapidly.
                              "I have now the pleasure to inform you that Captain Andre, the
                                 bearer of this, has been exchanged for you, so that, on its
                                 receipt, you will be no longer a prisoner. I doubt not this will
                                 afford you extreme pleasure. Upon second thoughts, I am inclined to
                                 doubt, for reasons mentioned in your epistle, to which I shall
                                 allude in another portion of this communication.
                              "First, as to affairs in this quarter. Large numbers of British
                                 troops are accumulating in this vicinity, and things must soon come
                                 to a pass. The two Howes have arrived, and the soldiers, landed
                                 from the fleet, are now encamped near Staten Island. It is supposed
                                 that by the end of the month there will be nearly thirty thousand
                                 regulars opposed to us.
                              "We may possibly scrape together nearly the same number of men—but,
                                 then, the difference! But very few of our troops have any
                                 discipline at all—a large number are destitute of arms, and such as
                                 are armed have but one bayonet to half a dozen muskets, so poorly
                                 are we off. Of ammunition we have a tolerable supply, and our
                                 provisions are plentiful. When this is said, everything favorable
                                 to us is mentioned. Our noble General is doing everything in his
                                 power for success, but it is hard work, as well as up-hill
                                 work.
                              "The main portion of our forces are at Brooklyn, on the Long Island
                                 side, opposite the city. Green is in command. It is supposed, from
                                 indications, that the enemy, as soon as they receive their expected
                                 re-inforcements, will land at Gravesend, and march up in this
                                 direction.
                              "Our men are constantly engaged in throwing up entrenchments on the
                                 Brooklyn side, and guarding the high ridge of hills, through which
                                 the roads pass from the other portions of the island. Forts have
                                 been marked out, and partly commenced, on the Jersey side, and the
                                 upper part of this island, on Harlem Heights. The name of one is
                                 Lee, after the eccentric, but brave, General of that name—the other
                                 is called Fort Washington. This looks as if it was determined to
                                 make a stand in defence of the city, though I am somewhat inclined
                                 to doubt whether we can save it.
                              "The enemy are too well supplied with battering artillery and
                                 siege-trains, for us to cope with them by shutting ourselves up in
                                 forts, where we are certain of being captured. It strikes me it
                                 would be better policy, without hazarding any general battle,
                                 except at great advantage, to draw the enemy into the country, and
                                 out him off in detail, which our knowledge of localities would
                                 often enable us to do.
                              "Again, he is powerful in fleets, which enables him to transport
                                 his troops from one seaport to another, with great ease. It will
                                 therefore be seen that it is idle for us to expect to hold the
                                 chief towns on the sea border. The moment his troops advance into
                                 the interior, things become favorable to us, as I think future
                                 events will prove.
                              "Two of their vessels of war went up the river the other day, and
                                 were fired at from Fort Washington, where a few heavy cannon have
                                 been placed. What damage, if any, was done, we cannot tell, for
                                 they proceeded on their way up the North River. Some of our men are
                                 becoming famous artillerists, and their shots tell well on
                                 experiment.
                              "That portion of your letter, in which you speak of the gathering
                                 of troops at Quebec, I read to the Commander-in-Chief. He appeared
                                 to be well aware what the purpose of the British government is. The
                                 plan intended is, that Howe, after capturing this city, shall send
                                 a portion of his forces up the North River—say to Albany—and that,
                                 next campaign, the army from Canada will march down and unite with
                                 him, so as to entirely separate the eastern from the other
                                 colonies. The plan is a good one, if it succeeds.
                              "I enclose with this a printed document, which I consider the great
                                 deed of ages. Generation after generation, when centuries shall
                                 have rolled by, will read it with grateful hearts, and glory in
                                 this act of their ancestors. It is the UNANIMOUS DECLARATION OF
                                 INDEPENDENCE of the Thirteen United Colonies of America, made in
                                 Congress, at Philadelphia, on the fourth.
                              "I regard this paper as severing the last link that bound us to the
                                 mother country, and we must now fight or die. The famous Magna
                                 Charta, which the Barons of England forced from King John, at
                                 Runnymede, is not worthy to be compared, as to its effects on the
                                 rights of all, with this bit of paper, signed by delegates from
                                 every colony. It is great, glorious and noble in composition, and
                                 defines, clearly and concisely, the wrongs and injuries that have
                                 been inflicted upon us.
                              "Read it to all our officers confined in Quebec, and, when this is
                                 done, do not fail to let the English officers have a chance to hear
                                 it also—it will teach them some truths, home truths, and not very
                                 palatable ones. Here we have the names of the most influential,
                                 wealthy and distinguished men in the colonies, pledging 'their
                                 lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor' to a deed, in the
                                 success of which, should they fail, the heads of all are
                                 forfeited.
                              "The Declaration has been read at the head of every regiment in the
                                 army, and it was received with loud cheers. Officers and soldiers
                                 seemed to vie with each other in hearty huzzas I assure you, I feel
                                 now more confident of our success than at any time before. We are
                                 now united as one people, Northern and Southern, and I
                                 fear no enemy that can be brought against us. The struggle may be a
                                 long one, but it will be none the less certain of ending right.
                              "I come now to private matters—such parts in your letter as relate
                                 immediately to matters between friend and friend. I read with no
                                 common emotion that part which related to Mary Manners. I do not
                                 wonder at your admiration of her—the world is not full of such pure
                                 and gentle beings. I, who have known her from childhood, have a
                                 right to speak in her praise.
                              "Her mind is fully equal to her personal appearance. She is gentle
                                 without being timorous, agreeable to all without freedom, and
                                 learned without the pedantry which is generally found in an
                                 educated woman. Her heart is alive to every sensibility, and the
                                 Almighty never implanted in human breast a disposition so
                                 affectionate and loving. Need I wonder, then, that she has
                                 captivated you, my dear Fairfax? It would have been strange indeed
                                 if such had not to you,
                                 which must ever remain locked in your breast. It is now known to
                                 but one person, Ki Lane, and will soon be known to another besides
                                 yourself; then, the secret goes no further. Although no formal
                                 attachment existed between Miss Manners and myself, in some way,
                                 how, I can hardly tell, it became fixed in my mind that at some
                                 future period we should wed. The thought had never entered into my
                                 head, that she could regard any other person in the light of an
                                 intended husband, but myself, and thus I dreamed on, loving
                                 fervently, until at last my eyes are opened, and I now perceive
                                 there is a vast difference between pure affection and
                                 that other attachment, called love. The one arises
                                 from a long and friendly association, the other springs directly
                                 from the heart, and endures when the other is forgotten.
                              "Miss Manners regards me with a sister's love, nothing
                                 more. Of this I am convinced from her recent letters, indeed she
                                 styles me her brother, and the tone in which she writes partakes of
                                 that feeling. Now, my dear fellow, I have opened my heart to you
                                 fully and plain, and I hope you will profit by the confession.
                              "What I mean by that is, win the heart and hand of Mary Manners,
                                 Frank; you will make a noble couple. Something whispers within me
                                 that you have already won the heart, now, my dear fellow, strike
                                 for the hand. If I ever had any right to ask either, I give that
                                 right up to you. She loves you, believe it, I have written her
                                 frankly, in such a way that she knows what my feelings
                                    were, and what my wishes now are. I close in the
                                 words of holy writ, 'ask and it shall be given.' The blessings of a
                                 poor sinner like myself rest upon you.
                              
                                 Yours, faithfully,
                                 HARRY BURNHAM."
                              
                           
                           
                              "P. S.—Do not forget to pay due attention to Captain Andre, he is a
                                 most worthy gentleman."
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Fairfax was silent for some time after he had perused the letter. Little had he
                     thought of the state of his friend's heart, up to that time He was aroused from
                     his reverie by Andre.
                  "When, Captain Fairfax, shall you leave for New York?"
                  "I cannot say, sir, exactly. In a few days, however, I am directed to report
                     myself, after the exchange, to the commanding officer at Ticonderoga."
                  "Ticonderoga? I had a wish to transmit some small articles of remembrance to
                     some friends on your side, in New York and Philadelphia, for kind treatment
                     shown me when a prisoner."
                  "Nothing will afford me more pleasure, Captain Andre. If I do not receive
                     permission to visit New York, anything that you place under my charge shall be
                     forwarded as directed."
                  Dr. Manners now entered and was introduced to Capt. Andre by Fairfax.
                  "What is this I hear?" said the Doctor, his voice somewhat agitated and his
                     countenance flushed. "Have the rebels had the audacity to declare their
                     independence, and separate from their rightful king?"
                  "Yes, sir," replied Fairfax, firmly, handing the doctor a copy of the
                     Declaration of Independence.
                  "Preposterous, absurd—why, these men are demented," said he, as his eyes ran
                     hastily over the paper, "all men born free and equal,' yes, a pity, indeed,
                     that some of you were not born with ropes around your necks. 'A decent respect
                     for the opinions of mankind,' very decent indeed. Oh! its a precious document,
                     and every man whose name's attached to it should be hung."
                  As the Doctor concluded his sentence of bitterness, Miss Manners entered the
                     room, and as her eyes met those of Fairfax, he perceived they were red with
                     weeping.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  When Burnham and Ki repaired to head-quarters, they found Adjutant General Reed
                     under considerable excitement. The Commander-in-Chief was not present.
                  "Good day to you, gentlemen," he said; "there is work for you to do, for the
                     Commander-in-Chief seems to repose special confidence in you both when there is
                     anything to be done in the way of arrests."
                  "What has happened, sir?" answered Burnham.
                  "A nest of tories has been discovered amid the rocks near Bull's Ferry, on the
                     river side. The discovery was one of mere accident, by Captain Hamilton and his
                     companions. A fortunate one, too, for the life of one of the General's best
                     confidential agents was thereby saved."
                  "On the Ferry side, you say?" eagerly asked Ki.
                  "Yes."
                  "And who was the man saved, sir? I have reasons for asking—reasons of some
                     importance to our cause."
                  The Adjutant General briefly related what had occurred to Hamilton and his
                     comrade, remarking, at the same time, that Van Tassel, who was in one of the
                     apartments at head-quarters, still remained in a state of insensibility.
                  "And what are the orders for me, sir?" inquired Burnham.
                  "I will give them to you verbally, by the orders of the Commander-in-Chief. You
                     are to take with you Lane and a company of the guard, at night-fall, and
                     proceed up the river in two large boats, which will be furnished for the
                     occasion. A guide will be sent with you, to show the place of landing. One
                     party is to get on the top of the heights, and prevent the escape of any of the
                     inmates of this nest by that route, whilst the other party is to ascend from
                     the river side, and thus hinder any from escaping by way of the water. The
                     orders are also imperative to shoot down any who will not surrender when such
                     demand is made. From all that can be ascertained, they must be a gang of
                     thieves and murderers."
                  "What is the object in waiting until night-fall?" inquired Burnham.
                  "Simply this. Two or three of the enemy's ships have gone up the river within a
                     day or two, and they keep us from venturing up with boats, except under cover
                     of the night."
                  "How many is the gang supposed to consist of?"
                  "It is impossible to say—probably a hundred, although not more than twenty are
                     supposed to be at this place at one time. The leader, strange as it may seem,
                     is a woman."
                  "A woman?" said Ki, strange thoughts flashing through his brain of the pedlar's
                     murder and his own escape, when on his way from Philadelphia to Boston.
                  "Yes, a woman," was the reply; "and one of great force and power, though
                     getting old."
                  "I think I once knew her, and at a dangerous time," said Ki.
                  He then related to General Reed part of the dreadful scene he had witnessed,
                     and the particulars of his escape from the lone house in Jersey, kept,
                     probably, by this same woman.
                  "If it is the same woman, Lane, she deserves to be hung on the highest tree on
                     the cliff. But bring her alive to head-quarters. We may learn
                     something that may be of importance."
                  "Who knows, Ki, but your friend, Watkins, may have escaped to this very spot.
                     It is evident he must have crossed the river, or else have gone on board one of
                     the ships in the bay," said Burnham.
                  "I believe that you have guessed right. His lurking place must be there. If I
                     could but once catch hold of him with these two hands, I'd risk any further
                     escape on his part."
                  When Ki said this, he held up his fists, that looked almost like two
                     moderate-sized hams, the way they were doubled.
                  "If any one gets into your clutches, Lane, I pity him," answered the Adjutant
                     General, laughing. "Why, Hercules himself, or Sampson, would have had a severe
                     tussel with you, had you lived in their days. Now, tell me, my good fellow, how
                     much can you lift? You are all bone and muscle—there is no superfluity of flesh
                     about you."
                  Ki felt in somewhat of a humor to carry out a joke: the information he had
                     received led him to suppose that Watkins was now in his grasp, and his elation
                     of spirits made him vigorous in more ways than one. Looking out of the window,
                     he perceived that some teamsters were unloading their carts of the barrels
                     which they contained.
                  "General Reed, since you have requested to know my strength, I'll make a small
                     wager with you. It shall be a guinea, one of King George's stamp, that I lift
                     one of those barrels from the ground at arms-length, drink from the bung, and
                     put it down again where I found it."
                  "Do you know what those barrels hold?"
                  "No, but I judge cider."
                  "You are correct. It is the beverage most preferred by your troops from the
                     East. I accept your wager, Lane, but first let me see if the Commander-in-Chief
                     is about. These kind of jokes and bets must not be carried on in his presence.
                     So, Mr. Giant, wait until I return."
                  It should be remembered that Ki was a universal favorite with all, from the
                     highest in command to the humblest camp follower. His gigantic appearance, his
                     invariable good temper, and the perfect and natural independence of the man,
                     without freedom or familiarity, seemed to make him the most noted individual in
                     camp. With General Reed, a man of great discrimination of character, he was a
                     remarkable favorite.
                  "Come, Burnham," said the General, on his return, "the Commander-in-Chief is
                     out inspecting the guns at the Whitehall Battery. Now we will see if Lane can
                     win his wager."
                  "There is my guinea, General," said Ki; "the bet may as well be covered now,
                     for I mean to win."
                  Reed could not avoid laughing, as he placed in Burnham's hand his guinea,
                     beside the one which Ki, with New England shrewdness for the main chance, had
                     already placed there, and the three left the room.
                  When they reached the street, a number of teamsters who had been rolling the
                     barrels in the direction of the chief commissary's storehouse, stopped their
                     labors at the request of General Reed.
                  "Now, General," said Lane, deliberately taking off his coat, "pick out any
                     barrel that you choose; yonder forty gallon fellow appears to be the largest. I
                     think he'll answer, for I'm very fond of cider and very dry.'
                  A number of officers off duty lounging around head-quarters, had now collected,
                     and they, together with the teamsters, formed quite a crowd.
                  "Why do you take off your coat, Ki?" said Burnham, "I've seen you do the same
                     thing at Oakdale twenty miles without showing your shirt sleeves."
                  "For one reason, and a very particular one, Harry. This coat is the best and
                     only regimental one that belongs to me. I can drink cider, though out of
                     uniform, and lift barrels without straining anything except my 'sinners and
                     mussels' as you recollect old Deacon Pelton used to say."
                  The idea of injuring his coat aroused the laughter of some of the southern
                     officers who stood by, and the explanation seemed to afford them a great deal
                     of merriment.
                  "Gentlemen," said Ki, "I'm glad that my opinion of economy pleases you. Suppose
                     I make a proposition. As soon as I have finished this wager, I'll throw any two
                     of you at a wrestle at one time, and give you both the back hold, at that. What
                     say you?"
                  "Done," exclaimed a stalwart-looking Virginian, who stepped forward on the
                     instant, "I'll try you alone, when you get through your cider barrel
                     operation."
                  "Very well, but I wish there were two of you, my good fellow. You look like a
                     man, and for that reason, I'd like to try a couple."
                  The bung had been knocked out of the barrel, and, amidst the wondering gaze of
                     the crowd, Ki advanced to fulfil his wager. Clinching the chines of the barrel
                     in a stooping posture, he gradually raised it at arms' length, and then, to the amazement of all,
                     without hardly relaxing a muscle, he placed the bung hole to his mouth, from
                     which the liquor seemed to flow to his great satisfaction.
                  "Come, come, Lane," said the Adjutant General, after waiting two or three
                     minutes. "I admit the loss of the guinea, but, for heaven's sake, I protest
                     against paying for the cider. Put the barrel down."
                  Ki obeyed orders, and without the least apparent labor, replaced the barrel
                     upon the spot from whence he had taken it.
                  "That was capital cider, General," he said, "and I think I could have swallowed
                     at least a gallon more."
                  "Yes, no doubt of it, Mr. Hercules, but I've lost enough by you already,
                     without paying for the contents of the barrel."
                  "Only two gallons, Mr. Adjutant General, two gallons, and as I live, I think I
                     could take another for the honor of old Connecticut. Now, Mr. Wrestler from
                     Virginny, step out and we'll take a toss or two."
                  The Virginian, who stood about six feet high, with broad shoulders and of
                     brawny build, stepped out at once, threw off his dragoon jacket, and prepared
                     for the wrestle. Ki being some inches taller, gave his antagonist the choice of
                     hold.
                  There was a fierce trial of strength for a moment or two, which elicited great
                     approbation among the lookers-on, but Ki, from his superior stature and iron
                     frame, gave a sudden turn of his limbs and body, bringing his antagonist to the
                     ground with a heavy fall, that would have killed, apparently, an ordinary man
                     at once.
                  The Virginian arose, without the least anger, from the ground, on the contrary,
                     with a smiling face, he extended his hand to Ki.
                  "Comrade," said he, "I'm your friend from this day forth. I'm only a sergeant,
                     and I see you wear on your coat yonder an epaulette, and a cockade in your
                     chapeau. You are the first man that ever threw, in a fair wrestle, Jack Champe,
                     this side of the Blue Mountains, and I reckon yor are the only man raised out
                     of Old Virginny that can do it."
                  "Well, Jack Champe," replied his antagonist, "my name is Lane, Ki Lane
                     generally called, and I hold a commission in the guard of the
                     Commander-in-Chief, the man who is the pride of Virginia and the country,
                     Washington himself! Hurrah for old Virginny!"
                  Now whether Ki was particularly elated by the cider he had drank, or what not,
                     without saying a word more, he applied his shoulder to the carriage of a brass
                     twelve pounder mounted gun, and with a simple movement, overthrew it,
                     scattering portions of the crowd in all directions.
                  Aware of the singularity of his conduct, he placed the carriage in its original
                     position, and lifting the piece by main force, a thing which seemed impossible,
                     he replaced it on the carriage. A general cheer rose up at this exhibition of
                     strength, when it was checked almost as suddenly as it rose.
                  Ki turned hastily round, and the first person he beheld in the gap made by the
                     breaking of the crowd, was Washington. There was a smile upon the countenance
                     of the General which at once cheered Ki, for, if ever there existed a human
                     being for whom the latter could feel veneration, it was for the
                     Commander-in-Chief. He advanced a few steps, followed by a portion of his
                     staff, and looked around.
                  "Amusing yourselves, gentlemen, I perceive, by feats of exercise. There is
                     nothing like athletic sport to give vigor and life to the body. Why, Lieutenant
                     Lane, you are, without an exception, the most powerful man I ever saw. You
                     handle a twelve pounder as easy as a couple of horses usually draw it."
                  "Your excellency will please excuse me," replied Ki, "I have been merely
                     showing those around a little New England strength in a quiet way."
                  "I have witnessed more of the sport than you supposed I do not think there is a
                     man in the army that can raise that piece of ordnance as easily as you have
                     done. Suppose you try me with a game of quoits. I have taken no exercise of the
                     kind for a long period.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *It should be remembered that Washington, in camp, occasionally indulged
                        himself with athletic sports. Quoits were a favorite game of his, and 
                           he he
                           he
                         has been known repeatedly to play it with officers and private
                        soldiers. Ho was generally the winner.
                  
                  "If General Washington condescends to try me, I certainly shall be proud of the
                     honor," was the answer of Ki.
                  The limits were fixed, and the quoits brought out. Of course, the crowd
                     increased larger than before, particularly when the word ran through the camp
                     that the Commander-in Chief was playing a game of quoits with the "giant of the
                     army."
                  For half an hour did the game go on, and when Ki was declared the winner, by
                     one, and one only, the General-in-Chief turned to him, and said, with a
                     smile:
                  "I expected nothing else, and am glad of it. Come, Lieutenant, it is about
                     dinner hour, for I see the Adjutant General has his eye on the kitchen door,
                     and he knows when dinner is ready. Burnham, I perceive, has already taken his
                     position in the doorway."
                  It is a wrong idea in the minds of many, that Washington had no pleasantry
                     about him. It is true that, among mere strangers, he seldom permitted himself
                     to be gay. But, in his own family, and when surrounded by his favorites, he
                     could now and then be as amusing as the best. But vulgar wit he
                     never uttered, nor dared any one to utter it in his presence.
                  The dinner passed off well, and Burnham and Ki found themselves, at its close,
                     particularly interrogated. The subject was the attack on the tory nest to be
                     made at night. The General expressed himself determined, as to the course to be
                     pursued, that no mercy should be shown on any one who had been guilty of the
                     attempted murder upon Van Tassel.
                  The latter had been truly a favorite of the Commander-in-Chief His reports from
                     the enemies of the country, who resided in New Jersey, had ever been found
                     faithful, and, at that period of time, in that colony, the greatest tories, as
                     well as the greatest friends to the liberties of the whole country, were
                     found.
                  "You, I think, Lieutenant Lane, have had some knowledge of this kind of
                     service," remarked the Commander-in-Chief, "and, if I have been told correctly,
                     there can be no doubt of your acquaintance with a portion of this gang, though
                     in no friendly way?"
                  "Your Excellency is, I have every reason to think, correct in your judgment.
                     There can be no love lost between myself and this gang."
                  "And you, Burnham, seem not to be a total stranger in your opinion to some of
                     them," remarked the Adjutant General.
                  "Not at all, if my memory serves me right, for I have a recollection of certain
                     events that occurred when on my way to Philadelphia from Boston, nearly a year
                     ago. Lane tells me that he is certain part of this gang are of the same
                     school."
                  The Commander-in-Chief, who had been conversing with Burnham, now rose and left
                     the table, with a mere remark, that he wished all the verbal orders, which had
                     been given by the Adjutant General, should be strictly fulfilled, and that the
                     company selected for that purpose should be picked.
                  "Now, General Reed, if I have your permission," said Ki, after Washington had
                     retired, "be so good as to let me visit Van Tassel. I think I can gain some
                     information from him that will be of service, if the man is able to give any
                     information at all. If he is not, I shall not disturb him."
                  A servant was called in, and directed to lead Ki to the bedside of the
                     unfortunate man. Van Tassel was lying in, apparently, a comfortable slumber,
                     but now and then an expression of pain would burst forth, for he was terribly
                     bruised.
                  "Van Tassel," said Ki, after regarding the man for a moment.
                  "Who speaks—is it you, Dirck Jauncey, villain?" he ejaculated, without opening
                     his eyes.
                  "No, I am your friend—you are among friends now."
                  "How the rope pulls—I am suffocating—stop! stop!—would you kill me? Vengeance,
                     vengeance!"
                  "Van Tassel, you should have more recollection—again I say you are among
                     friends—do you not know me?"
                  "Where am I—on the rocks below the trees? Yes, I remember now," he said,
                     faintly, opening his eyes as he spoke—"you want to hang me again."
                  "Hang you—look about, and see where you are," repeated Ki.
                  Gradually, Van Tassel awakened to proper recollection, and said:
                  "Oh! yes, I am among friends now, but the thought of death, with the cord about
                     my neck, was horrible—horrible?"
                  "All that is over—you have been rescued, and, if you are able to give me a few
                     minutes' conversation, you shall have terrible vengeance," was the remark of
                     Ki.
                  A glass of weak wine and water enabled Van Tassel to hold sufficient
                     conversation with Ki, that convinced the latter that not only Watkins, but the
                     woman who attempted his murder, near Tom's River, when bearing the despatches,
                     were among the party he was deputed, in connection with Burnham, to apprehend.
                     To Ki, this gave great satisfaction, and he felt a desire to start immediately
                     on his errand, though it wanted some hours of nightfall.
                  Taking leave of Van Tassel, with a promise that justice should be done on the
                     wretches who had striven to take his life, and, as they supposed, effectually,
                     he repaired immediately to the room where he had left the Adjutant General and
                     Burnham.
                  "As I suspected," he exclaimed—"Watkins and the old woman belong to this gang
                     If we take them, the service will be truly important."
                  "So much the better, Ki. Now select your own men, divide them, and take either
                     party you prefer—you shall lead on this occasion," was the answer of
                     Burnham.
                  "Very well, since the superior officer puts himself under the command of his
                     inferior on this expedition, I will arrange things to suit myself."
                  And Ki did arrange things to suit himself, never more so. He selected from the
                     battalion sixty men, the choicest in the army. He divided them so as to give to
                     Burnham and himself an equality of men in the attack.
                  When night came, the boats were found as stated, ready prepared to receive the
                     men, and according to Burnham's own proffer, Ki led the advance. It had been
                     arranged that he should with his party ascend the heights a half mile below the
                     "den," and that Burnham, when he reached the spot below, should await a signal
                     to be given by Ki for a simultaneous movement.
                  It is perhaps now time to mention something about the affairs at the "den." We
                     will suppose the time night—the night of the day of the return of Josh and
                     Jotham, after placing Watkins on board the sloop of war lying up the river.
                  In the inner room was Mother Gatchell, in deep conference with her two sons and
                     the other member of the gang who had accompanied them in the bout.
                  "It is no use for you to plead for him, Josh," said the old woman, "sooner or
                     later, Dirck Jauncey will betray us. Do with him as I say—then all will be sure
                     and safe," and she whispered another sentence in the ear of her son.
                  Josh quivered for a moment, yet regarding his mother with a look of wonderment
                     and surprise.
                  "And is that what you mean, mother, really?"
                  "Mean, yes; why not, ain't our lives—the lives of the whole of us, worth more
                     than the soul of this vagabond, this fellow who undertakes to lord it over all
                     of us."
                  "But will not the rest of the gang inquire for him?" was the remark of
                     Josh.
                  "Suppose they do?"
                  "What answer would you give when he was inquired for?"
                  
                  "Why, that he'd gone over to the enemy, what better could I give?"
                  "Oh! you are a good calculator, mother—you are well called the 'Captain' of the
                     gang."
                  "Then see that you obey me. I think that you don't know how to calculate at
                     all. This is a light guinea that Watkins gave you."
                  The old woman, during this conversation, had been regarding the number of gold
                     pieces which she shared with the three men, two of them being her sons. It is
                     very singular how avarice and crime go hand in hand. An avaricious person, man
                     or woman, has no truly honorable feelings. The love of gold is so entirely
                     sordid, that it is impossible for the mind to comprehend anything further, when
                     avarice predominates. Such was the mind of Mrs. Gatchell.
                  The proposition she had made to her son, was the murder of Jauncey, for the
                     reason that he knew too much. Neither Josh or Jotham felt any peculiar
                     sensations of horror at the request, but it was necessary that the third party
                     should know something of the affair. Josh took the man aside, and a
                     conversation something like the following took place.
                  "Do you know that Dirck Jauncey is going to betray us," said Josh, with a face
                     of apprehension.
                  "Betray us—Dirck Jauncey betray us—let him look a little first,—why, I'd shoot
                     him like a dog, if I thought so."
                  "Mother says it's the truth," replied the cunning Josh, "and there is no
                     denying it."
                  "Is there proof in any way?"
                  "Yes, proof enough—you can read, can't you?"
                  "Well, if it is writing, I can manage to spell out things, but if it is
                     printing, I can read nice, except the hard words."
                  "Read that," said Josh.
                  Now it so happened that Josh had in his possession a paper signed by a Colonel
                     in the Continental service, which, without mentioning the name, merely said,
                     "let the bearer pass, he is faithful." This very paper Jauncey had taken from a
                     whig he had shot, while hoeing in a cornfield, and with the usual boastings of
                     a murdering braggadocio, had given the same to Josh. Oh! mysterious range of
                     crime, this now was to be the warrant of death to the destroyer of the
                     destroyed.
                  "And, Josh, do you mean to say that Jauncey was such a hypocrite?"
                  "Yes; I got this from him while he was asleep. He's on t'other side, while
                     pretending to be on our's. We are in his power, and, for our safety, he must
                        die."
                  "Die!"
                  "Yes, die—why should he live?"
                  "But he is one of us—would it not be better to confine him?"
                  "How confine him?"
                  "Shut him up."
                  "Suppose he escapes?"
                  "Well, what then?"
                  "You and I, and all of us, will have to try the strength of rebel cords, old
                     boy—that's the difficulty."
                  As Josh said this, with characteristic cunning, he struck his listener on the
                     back, as if to drive the argument into him.
                  Mrs. Gatchell had been looking out of the only opening in the room, as this
                     conversation proceeded. A bright flash suddenly shot towards the heavens. So
                     brilliant was it, that her usual presence of mind left her, she thinking it to
                     be something supernatural. This thought, however, was of brief duration.
                  "Lord a mercy me!" she exclaimed.
                  A blazing portion of a rocket fell among the dry furze and bushes—for the
                     season had been a dry one—and the snakey flames, running from tree to tree,
                     soon set the whole cliff-side in a flame. Ki had fired the rocket as a signal
                     for Burnham, but not for the purpose of such a conflagration.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                  The first act of Mother Gatchell, after she recovered from her fright, was to
                     seize an axe which stood in a corner, exclaiming: "We are betrayed!" and,
                     rushing into the other part of the den, where Jauncey lay asleep, she struck
                     him on the head, three or four times, with demoniac fury.
                  He exclaimed once or twice, "Oh, God! forgive me!" when a final blow, that
                     penetrated his skull, released the poor wretch from life and misery.
                  "Up! up! all of you, you drunken rascals!" she exclaimed. "Take your guns—we
                     are betrayed, and the whole woods are in flames. Better to die fighting than
                     burn up."
                  The men, aroused from their drunken frolic, were soon sobered by the sight of
                     the flames curling along the mountain's side. Each seized his gun from the
                     corner stand, and there was slinging of powder-horns and bullet pouches.
                  The old woman had rushed back into the room she first left with Jotham, and
                     thus she, her two sons and the boatman, who had accompanied them when they took
                     Watkins up the river, were for half a moment alone.
                  "Where is the boat, boys?" she said, in a whisper, with singular coolness.
                  "In the old place, under the cliff," replied Josh
                  "Then, boys, we must look out for ourselves. It's no use to stop and be hung.
                     If we can get on board the skiff, there is a good chance for us. We must move
                     fast, or the others will know what is going on between us. Come, stir quick—we
                     can get out this way," and she pulled aside, with ease, a portion of board from
                     the side, through which they could make their way, unknown to their bandit
                     companions. She tied, instantly, an old hand-kerchief about her head, thrust
                     her hand into a crevice in the wall, from which she withdrew a leather pouch,
                     containing sundry gold treasures, and said, "Now, Josh, lead for the boat."
                  The flames had not yet fairly reached the side of the den from which they
                     emerged, which enabled them to steal into the shadow of the untouched wood
                     unperceived. The party had barely gained this shelter, when two of the men
                     rushed into the vacant apartment, one of them exclaiming:
                  "Mother Gatchell, Mother Gatchell, we'd better try to get into the woods, where
                     we can fight best."
                  Their wonder was amazing, when, on looking round, they observed no one, for the
                     old woman had carefully closed the place by which she and her sons, with the
                     boatman, had escaped.
                  "Boys!" exclaimed the man, "come in here, all of you; the old hag and sons are
                     gone, and how, the devil only knows."
                  The band, which that night consisted of about twenty, came in pell-mell, and
                     gazed around with the same wild wonder as their companion.
                  "There's a strong smell of brimstone here," said one, "and I guess, as you say,
                     the devil best knows. But where's Jauncey? he is a brave fellow; he must lead
                     us out of this cursed scrape."
                  Nothing could exceed their horror when they discovered his yet warm, but
                     lifeless body. How he had died was too evident.
                  "May the hottest part of hell be the residence of the old hag and her sons.
                        They have murdered him, and, most likely, set fire to the
                     woods, pretending that the rebels were on us. Now, lads, they can't have got
                     far—let's after 'em and hang 'em up, the old woman and all, as an example. By
                     G—d, how the flame is getting around us! Let's out, and on pursuit."
                  These were the last words the ruffian ever uttered. He was the first to emerge
                     from the den, around which the waving flames were crackling furiously; he took
                     two steps when a ball passed through his head, and he fell back a corse among
                     his comrades, covering them with his blood.
                  There was no time for them to pay any attention to his remains, for shot
                     followed shot in quick succession, and several of them received wounds in
                     endeavoring to make their escape.
                  We must now return to the party making the attack. Ki had safely made his way
                     up the mountain's side, and ascertained the exact position of the hut or den.
                     When he perceived that the rocket discharged had set the woods on fire, he at
                     once ordered his men to take a position, so as to prevent the escape of any of
                     the party in the den; he, in the meantime, keeping a good lookout for
                     Watkins.
                  The flames, however, advanced so rapidly, that he was compelled to withdraw a
                     portion of the men, and place them in a position he did not like. The smoke
                     blew up the side of the hill, preventing him from observing what was going on
                     below, especially the escape of the old woman and her associates.
                  Burnham, on the contrary, the instant the signal had been given, advanced up
                     the hill, and it was from his party that the shot came which killed the
                     ruffian. The party from the den first attempted to make their escape down the
                     water side of the hill, but, finding the way was stopped, and several of their
                     number killed, turned again to ascend the hill.
                  Here they were met by a portion of the soldiers under Ki, and, like rats when
                     forced to defend themselves, they showed their teeth bravely. They all knew how
                     to handle their arms, were good shots, and the conflict became desperate. The
                     flames and smoke, issuing from the burning forest, did as much aid to one side
                     as the other, and the bodies of those who fell quenched with their hissing
                     blood many a brand upon which they fell. On one side was determination, on the
                     other a recklessness of life in effecting, if possible, an escape.
                  The flames had now set the whole heavens in a glow, and the cause being unknown
                     both in the neighborhood and upon New York Island, and city opposite, many an
                     eye gazed in wonder up on the lurid sky.
                  A British sloop-of-war, the Greyhound, as she was called, lying opposite
                     Bedloe's Island, her captain took advantage of the tide, wind, and light of the
                     flames, to weigh anchor, and proceed up the river. A fresh breeze was blowing,
                     and, as the distance to the river side where the fire was burning happened to
                     be only some three miles, the sloop-of-war was soon opposite the scene of
                     conflict; and, being neither abreast of the American batteries from the city,
                     nor those from Fort Washington, her commander gave orders to cast anchor.
                  The musket firing on the hill side convinced him, as a matter of course, that
                     an engagement of some kind was going on, and that it must be between the two
                     divided parties of the country.
                  To add to the scene of fire and smoke, he ordered his guns to be shotted, and
                     commenced firing indiscriminately upon the hill side. The brightness of the
                     flames was so much the more increased, and presently, the cannon from the forts
                     and the island opened, their alarm guns rousing the inhabitants for many a mile
                     around.
                  Mother Gatchell and her party had, in safety for all the crackling of the
                     flames, made their way to the water-side through the shadow of the woods, not
                     yet reached by the fire. But their ideas of escaping by the boat were
                     futile.
                  It so happened that Burnham and his party in landing, had discovered the skiff;
                     a hole was at once knocked in her bottom and she was sunk. The amazement and
                     fear of the party can be imagined at this crisis. What was to be done?
                  A twelve pounder ball struck in the middle of the group from the sloop of war,
                     and as if the aim had been guided by some fatality, the boatman was the victim.
                     The avarice of the old woman could not resist the temptation, in spite of the
                     shots.
                  "No other ball will come in the same place, it's just as well he's gone. He
                     knows more than he ought to already."
                  She stooped, put one of her hands into the pocket of the dead man, and drew out
                     a purse, heavy with gold. The plundering was merely robbing the plunderer, that
                     was all.
                  "But, mother, what are we to do?" exclaimed Josh, as he looked around upon the
                     flames gathering about him.
                  "To do? why, act as people determined to get away. Make our way through the woods if
                     nothing else answers better."
                  "But don't you see what's coming on?"
                  "No."
                  "A dozen men, and a captain at the head; look again through the fire."
                  Mother Gatchell did look, and she saw enough to convince her that escape by the
                     water was impossible. Under these circumstances, she said:
                  "Well, let us not go up the hill, unless forced. Courage, nothing but courage,
                     is now of any use. Don't go near the den—the rebels are all around us. The only
                     way is to move by the water side, then there is a chance of getting away."
                  Now it so happened, that Burnham, with the party under his command, had nearly
                     reached the spot where Mother Gatchell and her companions were endeavoring to
                     escape by the river side. The sudden discharge of cannon from the sloop of war,
                     some of the balls from which struck near them, caused a different change of
                     movement.
                  "Forward, men," said Burnham—"this new arrival is a fixed matter between the
                     parties. What is the fear of a few grape shot! The sloop-of-war cannot remain
                     much longer in her present position—our artillery will soon be after her."
                  This speech, being overheard, made the old woman cautious and silent. Not a
                     word of reply escaped her, or the lips of her sons
                  The sloop-of-war still continued her fire, and, as Burnham ordered his men to
                     advance, the foremost of the file said that he thought he saw a woman's figure
                     retreating into the woods.
                  "A woman!" exclaimed Burnham.
                  "Yes, sir, a woman," was the reply.
                  It was true—Mother Gatchell, who had advanced to gain some intelligence of the
                     advancing party, was the person. But she was too cunning to come under the
                     fire-arms of a soldier, and she darted behind a tree.
                  "Pshaw!" exclaimed Burnham, "what you saw, as you say, was mere
                     imagination—nothing more, I think. Push on, lads, the advance are already
                     firing, and, from the cries, I think they are doing something!"
                  Now, Mother Gatchell was as brave as any woman could be, but the situation in
                     which they were placed was not very desirable. In ascending the hill to make
                     their escape, the fire had swept over the surface of the ground by which they
                     had descended, and exposed them full to view, except where the smoke
                     intervened.
                  The rustling shot from Burnham's party swept, likewise, across the hill, where
                     they were contending with the recent tenants of the den. Mother Gatchell knew
                     full well that she was as safe on one side as the other, for, now that the gang
                     were attacked in their last hold, and solely fighting for existence, there was
                     no favor to be bestowed on her.
                  Ki, with his party, had descended from the mountain top, and, ere a short
                     moment elapsed from the time that Mother Gatchell and her sons endeavored to
                     ascend, they found themselves between the fire of both sides.
                  The cannon of the sloop-of-war continued, also, to send their balls into the
                     hill-side, and all practicable means of escape seemed to be cut off for the old
                     hag and her two sons, as deep in guilt as herself.
                  Ki perceived them. The old woman was standing on a rock, and he at once
                     recognized in her the woman who had endeavored to take his life. Raising the
                     fusee, he took deliberate aim, when he dropped the muzzle of his gun,
                     exclaiming to himself:
                  "Heaven forbid that I should take a woman's life, however bad."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  The impulse of Ki, as regarded the taking of the life of Mother
                     Gatchell, was commendable. His wish was that she should be taken, and receive
                     from the civil authorities that proper punishment which her crimes
                     deserved.
                  But acts seemingly commendable are often injurious. In this case it turned out
                     peculiarly so, for, by being humane, Ki gave a longer lease to Mother
                     Gatchell's indulgences in crime. Finding themselves in the utmost danger, her
                     two sons made a rapid move for a projecting rock standing upright on the hill
                     side, which the party under Burnham had outflanked in their movements.
                  "Where is Mother Gatchell?" said Josh to Jotham.
                  "I don't know, nor care much, since Jake is gone," was the reply.
                  "You don't?" said Josh, with quickness—"you won't stand by mother, then?"
                  "Why, what's become of Jake, ain't he our brother, Josh?" answered Jotham, the
                     younger son, who had become, in a measure, tired of so much crime.
                  "And so you won't help save the old woman?"
                  "I never said that, but where is Jake, the eldest born of us all?"
                  "Take that, and perhaps you'll find out, Mr. Jotham," was the reply of Josh, as
                     he discharged his musket at his brother.
                  This description of a brother attacking a brother may seem terrible, but it is
                     not untrue. The ball touched a vital part of the young man, and he sunk down in
                     agony. The errors and crimes he had been dragged into had sent their last
                     recoil.
                  "Oh! Josh," he said, as his life blood was fast ebbing away, "I forgive
                        you. A just providence has arranged this way of ending my life,
                     and it is right. What wrongs and murders I have done; I deserve it all! Oh! God
                     forgive me! Oh! Josh, repent, ask mother to do so, and if you ever see Jake,
                     give him my last blessing."
                  "Who calls on Jake? Jake Gatchell, you mean," said a voice, hoarse with
                     emotion, "here I am, ain't that brother Jotham's voice." The dying young man
                     raised himself, and looked beyond the shelter of the rock below, where it was
                     lit up by the continuous flame of the burning woods. As he stretched himself
                     over, the blood flowing from his wound sprinkled in thick drops upon the face
                     of the man who, with gun in hand, was ascending.
                  "Jotham, Jotham, my younger, dearest brother, is it you?" was his exclamation,
                     in the deepest agony.
                  "Yes, brother, it is. Oh! haste, haste. To see you again I did not think of;
                     I'm dying, Jake, dying. Lift me up, dear brother, I've something to say to
                     you."
                  Panting with toil and labor in ascending the cliff, Jake mounted the rock,
                     raising himself by a grape-vine, which, fortunately, had wound its way over the
                     rocks, and encircled a large tree which stood by, that had thus far escaped the
                     flames.
                  "Why, Jotham, how is this?" he said, as he raised his brother from the ground;
                     "and there is Josh, I see." The latter part of his remark displayed no great
                     affection as he looked upon Josh.
                  "Oh! brother, I am dying! We have all of us been very bad, brother."
                  "Heaven and hell!—don't torture me now with such matters—don't I feel my
                     conscience touching me every day. Who shot you, dear boy?"
                  Now, Josh, who had re-loaded his gun, stood with finger on the trigger, ready
                     to discharge it at Jake, if his dying brother said one word to his injury. One,
                     he knew, would be a corse in a few moments—the other he was determined to make
                     one, if necessary.
                  "Don't ask me, dear brother Jake," was the reply of Jotham. "Don't you see the
                     rebels, as we used to call 'em, are all around? The woods are burning up, and,
                     then, can't you think how I got this shot?"
                  Bad as the young man had been, he wished to conceal how he got his death wound.
                     Josh, who was listening, dropped the muzzle of his gun.
                  "And the rebels have done this? They shall pay dearly for it. Up, men, up!"
                     said Jake.
                  There was no response, except from two or three men, armed, like himself, with
                     guns and cutlasses, who made their way round the base of the rock.
                  "Where are the rest of you?" shouted Jake, madly.
                  "Well, Quarter-Master," answered one of them, "the Captain of Marines ordered
                     them to join him. There's a brisk fight going on—don't you hear the
                     muskets?"
                  "I do; but this young man you see dying is my brother Push on, and take
                     vengeance on all the rebels you find—kill, kill—no quarter. Josh, why do
                        you stand there? Here is your brother, murdered by the enemies
                     of your king, and you stand with your gun loaded, like a stick. Follow the
                     men—don't you see and hear the battle? See, too, how the flames gather."
                  "That's the reason I stay," said Josh, sulkily. "I don't want to see brother
                     Jotham burn up—besides, mother ain't far off."
                  "Not far off? For God's sake, then, although you and her both tried to take my
                     life, try and find her. She cannot wish her youngest born to go out of
                     existence without seeing him. Find her right off."
                  "But she might be shot, like Jotham," replied the wretch, still unwilling to
                     leave, fearing that his brother would tell the story that he had committed the
                     rapidly approaching fratricide.
                  "Go! Josh, go! Fear nothing—you will not be injured," said Jotham,
                     in a faint voice. Josh understood it, and at once commenced to search for his
                     mother.
                  It is now necessary to state how Jake, who, our readers will recollect, was one
                     of the assailants of Ki, on his return from Philadelphia with the despatches
                     from the President of Congress, (yet was his friend in the end, by saving him
                     from a brutal death at the hands of the old woman and her sons,) arrived so
                     opportunely in the scene. In very early, life he had been on board a
                     man-of-war. Escaping from his mother's and brother's rage at the disappearance
                     of Ki from the cellar, he got on board the Greyhound sloop-of-war, and was
                     speedily appointed Quarter-Master.
                  As has been related, the Greyhound sloop-of-war had come up the bay during the
                     night, and cast anchor off the scene of conflict. Her Captain soon after
                     ordered his launch ashore, with all the marines, and such number of sailors as
                     he could spare, aside from the protection of the vessel.
                  Jake Gatchell, being a Quarter-Master, was ordered ashore, with a number of
                     sailors under his command, little expecting to meet his brothers, or mother, in
                     such a place, or under such circumstances. Landing, of course, after Burnham
                     and his party had commenced ascending the hill, the marines and sailors took
                     the same route, and a severe fire of musketry, with much loss on both sides,
                     was the result. The banditti, or inhabitants of the "den," finding that friends
                     were now in the vicinity, fought with desperation, and Burnham, with his
                     detachment of only thirty men, found it necessary that he should make a
                     junction with Ki, or he would be outnumbered, and cut off.
                  To return to Jake and Jotham. No sooner had Josh gone after his mother, as
                     requested by Jake, than the dying young man said, in a low tone, but full of
                     meaning:
                  "Brother Jake—we have all been very bad."
                  "I know it, Jotham," he said in reply, as he held him in his arms, the blood of
                     his younger brother, meanwhile, flowing over him, and soaking his garments.
                  "Brother, I've something else to say."
                  "What is it, poor Jotham, speak out?" and he began to cry. The tears were tears
                     of repentance.
                  "We've done very wrong."
                  "That I know. How can I do right?—tell me; you are going, my favorite brother—I
                     would, if I could, die for you."
                  "I know it, I know it—oh! that pedlar's murder and other things—how they do
                     come up in my brain! Oh! Jake, I die younger than you, but take warning—how
                     hard to die with guilt on one's conscience!"
                  Although the flames from the woods on the cliff-side were gradually creeping
                     around the two brothers, and the crackling of the fire became merged in the
                     reports of the musketry from the
                     skirmish going on, yet they heard neither.
                  "I know," said Jake, "that conscience is a terrible thing, but I intend to do
                     right hereafter."
                  "Promise me one request," said his brother.
                  "I will, I will," was the sobbing reply.
                  "Then leave the British side, and join your own countrymen—they are right,
                     Jake, they are right. I am dying fast, but I know they will succeed. Do it, oh,
                     do it!"
                  "Jotham, I will—I will. I have thought just as you ask me for a long time. I
                     only shipped on board the Greyhound for a year; the time is most up, and, if
                     they don't let me go free, these Englishmen, I'll desert. I'll do something
                     right, for what I've done wrong Tell me, now, if the rebels shot you, what
                     makes you so forgiving?"
                  "I was shot by none of them."
                  "Not shot by them!" said his brother. fiercely—"who by?—tell me—you shall have
                     terrible vengeance!"
                  "I am dying—another murder would be no vengeance. If I was to tell you how the
                     shot came, you'd feel bad, Jake—oh! bad."
                  "Tell me," he said, fiercely, "was it that old hag? God forgive me, for she
                        is my mother!"
                  "No, Jake, no!"
                  "Who then?—answer, Jotham—if you love me, answer at once."
                  Life was going fast—the young man made no reply.
                  "Speak, Jotham, speak. Tell me!" he exclaimed, in a voice of thunder.
                  Jotham opened his eyes for the last time, as he rested in his brother's arms,
                     and gazing upwards, said with that weakness of voice that immediately precedes
                     death, pointing at the same time with his finger,
                  "See, brother, see, oh! God."
                  It was his last effort; his hand fell; no breath came back; he was dead!
                  Jake looked up, and he saw standing upon the rock above him his now only living
                     brother, Josh. The flames had swept everything bare around, and with the
                     reflection of the light, his figure seemed gigantic, as he stood upon the rock.
                     But it was not that that amazed him. A musket was levelled at him by his own
                     brother! He moved nor stirred not, but exclaimed,
                  "Pascal, murderer, fire!"
                  "Take death, then, as you deserve," was the reply.
                  Josh fired, but the shot, instead of striking the living brother, penetrated
                     the yet warm forehead of his dead younger brother.
                  "Wretch, the vilest spawn of hell," exclaimed Jake, starting up, "were you ten
                     times my brother, now you shall die."
                  He carefully placed the body of Jotham upon the ground, and prepared to rush
                     after the fratricidal being who had taken he
                        brother's life, and attempted another's when he
                        fron to his wonder, his mother on the rock, sons
                        ing him, with frowning face.
                  
                     God! mother," he said "are you a this
                     horrid deed. Look!" and he  the body of her
                     youngest born.
                  
                      woman made her way as quickly as possible to the spot. In spite of
                     any suspicion that Jake might have had of her, (for he had reason to know her
                     faithlessness as regarded himself,) she now appeared to be highly excited.
                     Lifting the head of the lifeless form to her knee, she exclaimed, parting the
                     hair,
                  "Oh, mercy, mercy, is my dear boy dead?"
                  "Yes! gone forever," solemnly said Jake, leaning on his musket. Neither seemed
                     to pay any attention to the shots whistling around them from all
                     directions.
                  We will state here that another boat load of men, fully armed, had now been
                     landed from the British sloop of war, and uniting with those already engaged,
                     made it necessary for Ki and Burnham to unite their commands for their mutual
                     safety.
                  It was Ki's wish to take the old woman alive. Having seen nothing of Watkins,
                     he was anxious to secure her that she might give him some knowledge of the
                     Sergeant, and hand her over to the civil authorities for the crimes she had
                     committed. Followed by one or two of his men, he advanced for that purpose, but
                     the burning timber and fallen trees caused them to make but slow progress on
                     their way.
                  To return to Jake and his mother. She continued to lament over his body until
                     the flames became so hot around them, that they scorched their garments.
                  "Mother," said Jake, "we must move quick, or, if not killed by shot, we shall
                     be burnt up. I hear the shouts of a new party of our men below. I will carry
                     Jotham's body; it shan't be left to be burnt up like a dog." He raised the body
                     upon his shoulders and began to descend the burning hill, followed by his
                     mother, raving and gnashing her teeth.
                  Ki reached the spot they had left about a minute after, and though he perceived
                     them at no great distance, making their way cautiously amid the fire, a
                     movement on his flank prevented him from following them.
                  A party of the sailors and marines, some twenty in number, were advancing in a
                     direction that would intercept his pursuit, and he was forced from necessity
                     (having but two men with him) to retrace his steps for their own safety. Not
                     far off he joined Burnham with a small body of men, most of them having
                     scattered by his directions to hunt up the fugitives.
                  Burnham had with him two or three prisoners belonging to the "den"; these Ki at
                     once questioned.
                  "What has become of Watkins?"
                  "I don't know any one of that name," sullenly replied one of the prisoners,
                     whose hands were bound with cords.
                  "Perhaps you might be made to know him, and that in a speedy manner, if an
                     order was given to string you up on a limb of yonder burning hickory, as you
                     strung up Van Tassel."
                  The man looked at him with wonder and astonishment. Had Van Tassel come to
                     life, or had some portion of the gang betrayed them, and thus brought
                     destruction on them all?"
                  "Now, my man, I put the same question to you," said Ki, to another of the
                     prisoners. "Do you know anything of a man named Watkins, a British
                     Sergeant?"
                  "There was such a man, a Sergeant, and wounded, in the 'den' last night, but I
                     hav'nt seen anything of him to-day. I believe he was called Watkins by Mother
                     Gatchell."
                  "And you have not seen him since last night?"
                  "No, sir, but I think he was taken away in a boat, and put on board of the
                     sloop-of-war that went up the river yesterday. Josh or Jotham Gatchell could
                     tell, for they were away, and I reckon took him up."
                  "Confound that fellow Watkins; he always falls on his legs like a cat. And
                     where are Josh and Jotham, I know them of old?"
                  "That I can't tell, sir; they escaped out of the 'den' before we knew it."
                  "See, Ki!" exclaimed Burnham, "how close the enemy are upon us, and outnumber
                     us too. Send the prisoners to the rear, and fall back, men, until we overtake
                     more of our comrades. Keep your faces to the front, and see that you waste no
                     shots."
                  It was time these orders were given, for the party coming up commenced firing,
                     and the shots pealed backwards and forwards fast, and several dropped on both
                     sides. To add to the scene, amid the burning of the woods, the reports of the
                     muskets, and the groans of wounded sufferers, a thunder storm had arisen, and
                     the rain came down in huge drops, while the lightning far outblazed the
                     comparative feeble death weapons of the combatants.
                  The hissing from the burning brands, as the deluge continued to fall, quenching
                     here and there the flames, threatened a death almost as bad as that of burning
                     to those who unfortunately were in its influence—suffocation. A dense musty
                     smoke rose up, making it difficult to distinguish friend from foe at a
                     distance.
                  Fortunately for Burnham and Ki, the wind blew from the top of the hill, and
                     swept the smoke towards the river, which gave them considerable advantage over
                     their adversaries, and they continued to ascend to the summit or near it,
                     carefully picking their way amid the embers that filled most of the path. As
                     they advanced, they fell in with portions of their men, with a few prisoners,
                     so that their party had considerably increased when they came to a rest. The
                     rain, however, continued to pour down in torrents, and sharp flashes of
                     lightning, followed by successive thunder peals, made the cliffs and mountain
                     sides ring.
                  "How many prisoners have we all together, Ki?" asked Burnham.
                  "The Sergeant who has them under charge reports ten."
                  "How many of them belong to the 'den' of hang-dogs, and how many to the sloop
                     of war?"
                  The examination was made, and the result gave seven in number from the gang,
                     and three from the vessel.
                  "See that the latter, Sergeant, are treated as honorable prisoners. The others,
                     tie cords around their wrists, and if they make the least attempt to escape,
                     shoot them down like dogs. No death is too good for such murderers," was
                     Burnham's order.
                  The Sergeant, with a file of men, conveyed the prisoners to a little distance,
                     and proceeded to bind them as directed. Some submitted in sullen silence,
                     others cursed and swore against Mother Gatchell and her sons, as being their
                     betrayers, declaring vengeance upon them on this earth, if possible, but hell
                     in the next, certain.
                  The storm and smoke seemed to have effectively stopped the advance of the
                     enemy, each was reposing after their toils from necessity. As far as Ki could
                     ascertain, ten of the Americans were killed, wounded and missing. Two were
                     known to be killed, and four wounded, the other five, whether prisoners or not,
                     could not be told.
                  Of the gang in the "den," it was known that not more than three had escaped
                     pursuit, and it was certain that they were yet lurking not far off,
                  Ki and Burnham were standing together, near a little piece of wood, which the
                     fire, by some curious freak, had let alone in the conflagration. They were
                     talking of the probable number of their opposers, and the probability of an
                     attack, when a rustling in the clump of woods near, like that of some person
                     stealing covertly along to escape, attracted the attention of both.
                  "One of the scoundrels probably," said Ki, as he rushed into the thicket to
                     pursue whoever it was, followed by Burnham.
                  The man finding himself discovered, and that his chance of escape was
                     precarious, ran rapidly, but hearing the steps of his pursuers getting nearer,
                     turned suddenly round and fired. Ki had a narrow escape, for the ball passed
                     through his chapeau and grazed his temple. In an instant more, he had the man
                     in his herculean gripe and dragging him to the light, to his surprise as well
                     as gratification, discovered that his prisoner was Josh. The latter, pallid and
                     quivering, beheld the man he had once been instrumental in endeavoring to
                     murder.
                  "So, Mr. Josh Gatchell, you remember me now? I
                     remember well that night of blood, last year—I shall never forget it. Wretch,
                     what a weight of guilt you carry about your carrion body." He shook him in his
                     rage.
                  "You can't more than kill me, any how," replied Josh, recovering somewhat his
                     courage. "But you'd better let me live than kill me. I can do you more
                     good."
                  "Good! good, from such a villain—impossible."
                  "It will be good for the side of your party, I reckon."
                  Burnham by this time had joined them, and when Ki related who he was, they took
                     him under the shelter of a large rock, near their party, to examine him.
                  "In the first place, where is Watkins," said Ki.
                  "On board a British sloop-of-war, some miles up the river."
                  "How came he there?"
                  "I and two others took him in a boat, just before daylight this morning."
                  
                  "Was he afraid of being taken in the 'den?'"
                  "Yes—he was badly wounded, so he offered us a good store of guineas, and we
                     clinched the bargain by taking him on board."
                  "You tell the truth?"
                  "I do, there is no use in lying now, for the truth does best"
                  "It is well you think so at last. Now answer all the questions that this
                     officer and myself may ask you."
                  "But I want to know if my life is to be saved by it, if I confess all?"
                  "That, we can't decide," said Burnham, who now spoke for the first
                     time with the prisoner, "the Commander-in-Chief possesses that power."
                  "Then I'm d—d if I say another word."
                  This sentence had just escaped his lips, when there came a terrible stroke of
                     lightning, dazzling all around with the light of a hundred suns. A crack like
                     the splitting of a mountain's side was heard.
                  "Run! run! Ki," was the exclamation of Burnham, "the rock overhead is toppling
                     away before the lightning stroke."
                  Barely time had the two to escape, when a noise louder than thunder was heard.
                     A portion of the rock, weighing many tons, had been broken off, it parted at
                     first slowly, then over it came—crushing beneath it to a shapeless mass of
                     flesh, the wretch Josh, who was too bewildered to fly—down! down it went,
                     increasing in speed, and marking its path by myriads of living cinders, that
                     flew up in the sky like airy diamonds. Crash, crash, till it reached the water
                     side—then arose a shriek; it had passed over one of the boats, filled with men,
                     and those it did not kill, it crushed and maimed. It shot far into the river,
                     and the surge of the waves was heard far up the hillside as they dashed back in
                     anger, to fill again the space which had, for a moment, been so fearfully made
                     vacant.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XX.
                  We will now return to Quebec, where we left, at the conclusion of the sixteenth
                     chapter, Dr. Manners, Captain Andre, Fairfax, and Miss Manners.
                  "Why, Mary, my dear girl," said the Doctor, affectionately, "what is the
                     matter?—are you, like myself, strangely touched by this self-styled Declaration
                     of Independence, issued by the rebel Congress at Philadelphia—the fools and
                     knaves."
                  "Don't say so, dear father," she replied, recovering herself; "these fools and
                     knaves are only standing up for their own rights."
                  "Own rights?—own fiddlesticks. Why will you persist in these foolish ideas? If
                     you were my son, instead of being a mere girl, I would discard you; but, being
                     a simple maiden in petticoats, I forgive the foolishness that leads you in
                     error. Declaration of Independence! A pretty Declaration, indeed! What is to
                     support such a government, I should like to know?"
                  "Allow me to answer, Doctor," interrupted Fairfax: "a firm determination to be
                     free, a firm determination to insist upon 'no taxation without
                     representation,'—this is the motto of us rebels, of which your
                     daughter takes a right view."
                  "Oh, ho! my young prisoner, you step in, do you?" answered the Doctor, in a
                     pleasant tone. "About being exchanged, you feel that the colonies are thereby
                     made free. Look, for a moment, at the troops gathering at Quebec. Why, Captain
                     Fairfax, we shall be able to march through the whole continent without
                     trouble."
                  "I have been told, General Burgoyne has made the same remark," was the reply of
                     Fairfax, "but there is a difference between fact and assertion. Let Burgoyne
                     try it, with all the Hessians, Brunswickers, and British he can bring; he will
                     find that 'there is many a slip between the cup and the lip,' before his
                     campaign is ended."
                  "Deluded young man! how can you be so deceived? Where are your rebel companions
                     to find the men and means to resist the force which his blessed majesty is now
                     prepared, by divine approbation, to overwhelm you with? Armies, larger in
                     numbers than the whole Congress can collect, are now gathering to overwhelm
                     you. The leaders will have none to follow them, the army (if your horde of
                     licentious men can be called such) will be broken up, and the signers of this
                     Declaration of Independence will be hung on the tallest gallows, like so many
                     highwaymen! Amen! amen!"
                  The Doctor really meant what he asserted. He was a royalist from principle—a
                     believer and lover in kingcraft. To rebel against the king, in his mind, was
                     like disbelieving the existence of a God. Brought up in such opinions, he took
                     ground against the revolution with the fury and fire of Peter the Hermit about
                     the crusades.
                  "But, Doctor, you don't mean to call us all highwaymen, do you,
                     that take up arms against the king?"
                  "Yes, ALL!"
                  "What, Washington, the Commander-in Chief?"
                  "Yes, sir—the worst of all."
                  Fairfax, for an instant, felt the blood rush to his face, and had an
                     inclination to reply in a strong manner, but a single glance from the eye of
                     Mary Manners checked his will, and rendered him calm.
                  "Father," said Miss Manners, "you forget the time the good General
                     Washington, before Boston, when we were all besieged in the town,
                     sent in a large quantity of fresh provisions to relieve the sick and wounded on
                        your side, who were suffering for the want thereof. Do you
                     recollect the kind words that accompanied the succor?—'These provisions are not
                     intended for any side, but for all who are suffering the want thereof by penury
                     or sickness.'"
                  "Well, my daughter, I remember all this; but it was his duty as a subject of
                     the king. That he possesses great virtues I doubt not. He showed much military
                     skill in the siege of Boston, the officers of his majesty's army tell me, and
                     for that I give him full credit—but he is a rebel, and, therefore, a candidate
                     for the gallows."
                  "My dear sir," said Andre, who had now for the first time interfered in this
                     portion of the conversation, "do not be so severe on the commander of the
                     American forces—he is a gentleman in every respect, kind and benevolent, as I
                     have reason to know by the passport under his name which led me throughout the
                     whole line of the rebel army after being exchanged. From all that I could
                     learn, for I never saw him, he is regarded as the great apostle in the cause
                     which is to lead to the freedom desired by his countrymen. I believe their
                     whims futile; but still, Doctor, I must so far bear witness to all I saw and
                     heard."
                  Dr. Manners listened attentively, and, before replying, looked intently in the
                     face of Andre.
                  "And am I to understand, Captain, that you think this rebellion just?"
                  "Far from it. It should be put down—promptly put down," said Andre.
                  "That is," said Fairfax, "if it can be done."
                  "Why, Captain, what force have the colonies to oppose that of Great
                     Britain?"
                  "The iron hearts of men that mercenary hirelings can never reach," replied
                     Fairfax, solemnly.
                  "You will see," said Doctor Manners.
                  "Father, you have ever allowed me to speak my mind. I say allowed,
                     because you know I would not willingly offend your feelings, however opposed to
                     you in this unfeeling war. But listen to a young girl's prediction. The British
                     rule will be driven from the colonies when this war is over—another government
                     will rise up—one that will, in the course of a century, astonish the world by
                     its grandeur, power and stability. This is as certain as yonder sun brightens
                     the heavens."
                  As Mary Manners said this, her form seemed to dilate, her carriage seemed more
                     erect, and when she pointed to the sun, then high in the heavens, there seemed
                     the prophecy of the Sybil hanging about her, keeping all silent for a
                     moment.
                  Captain Andre was the first to break the silence.
                  "Miss Manners, I admire the feeling of hope which you entertain for your native
                     land. But, pardon me, when I say your prophecy can never be realized."
                  "No, no," said her father, half jocularly, "Mary is almost as wild as the
                     Philadelphia Congress. She lets her hopes run away with her reason, on all
                     subjects connected with the independence of the colonies."
                  "Ah! gentlemen," exclaimed Fairfax, "you little know, either of you, of the
                     true state of feeling among the people of the thirteen colonies. They are
                     united and determined to be free, and Miss Manners truly predicts the
                     future."
                  "Pshaw, Mary is getting a little wild with her notions," said Doctor Manners,
                     rather sharply, "and you have too much good sense, Capt. Fairfax, to believe
                     that the colonies, destitute of money, credit and military stores, can have the
                     least chance against our rightful king."
                  "Revolutions have been effected with appearances full as desperate," replied
                     Fairfax.
                  "When, where?"
                  "Switzerland against the Austrians, the Hollanders against the Spaniards. There
                     is room for another and a greater man than Tell."
                  "And who is he, pray," said Dr. Manners, rather sarcastically.
                  "GEORGE WASHINGTON, of Virginia, from my native colony," replied Fairfax, on
                     the instant.
                  Dr. Manners and Major Andre exchanged glances for an instant, reciprocal of
                     their mutual disbelief in the remark made by Fairfax. The idea that the
                     colonies contained a leader who could in any way come in successful contact
                     with any General of the English regulars, was preposterous in their
                     opinion.
                  While they were exchanging glances, Mary Manners and Fairfax were not idle in
                     the same way. Their eyes also met, but it was with another and different
                     meaning. Patriotism was in the glance, but love mingled in the
                     rays. Two souls joined from the instant, steadily, truly and faithfully,
                     through the windows of the brain.
                  "Captain Andre," said Fairfax, "you have had an opportunity, during your
                     captivity, to see something of our troops; do they lack anything but discipline
                     to make them good soldiers?"
                  "I cannot say in truth that they lack anything else. Their blood is the same,
                     and flows from the parent source of Englishmen. But where is money to be found
                     to pay, or arms to be gathered to fight against the discipline of British
                     troops. Bravery is of no avail without these means of warfare, and where are
                     the colonies to obtain them? Our fleets will blockade every port, our arms will
                     carry victory into every portion of the country."
                  "You forget Lexington, Concord, and Bunker's Hill, Captain Andre, to say
                     nothing of the taking of Montreal," said Miss Manners, archly.
                  The shot told with double effect, for Andre had been taken prisoner at
                     Montreal.
                  "My dear Miss, it is true, Montgomery took a portion of the twenty-seventh
                     regiment, to which I have the honor to belong, at Montreal, but his force was
                     too superior, and we had no ammunition or cannon of any consequence. But, you
                     forget, this same Montgomery, a brave man, I admit, fell in attacking the very
                     place where we now are."
                  "Yes, yes, I remember all that, Captain Andre," she replied; "mere
                     circumstances saved Quebec, and caused the death of a brave man. You will
                     recollect, however, that this was an invasion on the part of my
                     countrymen, into your own loyal provinces. The next attempt your countrymen
                     have to make into our country; see, then, where the future will
                     lie, and which party will prove successful."
                  "Ah! Miss Manners, I find I had better retire from the argument—you are
                     determined to have the last word, and that on your own side. I always give way
                     to a lady."
                  "Then do not give it to me, Captain Andre, for that reason; sex has nothing to do with
                     loving one's own land."
                  "Come, come, Mary," said the Doctor, "let your rebel passions go down a
                     little—you are worse than Captain Fairfax in your ideas of patriotism, and far
                     more belligerent in your opinions and assertions."
                  "Perhaps so, father; but, remember, the bitterness and boasting is all on the
                     king's side."
                  "Fudge, fudge—the king is a just father to his people, and ruin on all who take
                     up arms in the colonies to disobey his authority."
                  "Then the better portion of the inhabitants of the colonies will be ruined,"
                     said Fairfax.
                  "Perhaps so, young man, perhaps so—the greater shame on the leaders of the
                     rebels who guide the mass astray."
                  "Where a proceeding is nearly unanimous, all are leaders," replied Fairfax.
                  "Do you pretend to say the people of the colonies are nearly unanimous in this
                     rebellion?"
                  "I do."
                  "You do not judge correctly, sir," answered the Doctor, a little chafed; "there
                     is too much good sense among the people."
                  "What I have asserted, I mean."
                  "So much the more are you mistaken. A parcel of demagogues, made up of such men
                     as are now assembled in Philadelphia, calling themselves, grandiloquently, a
                     Congress, express no real opinions whatever, truly coming from the people."
                  "They are the first men in the colonies, allow me to say, Doctor, and have been
                     placed in the stations they occupy, solely for their standing in society, and
                     their commanding talents."
                  "Ah! who are they all, pray let me know?—I did once recollect the
                     names of some of the great men, as they were called, of the colonies."
                  "Well, sir, I will commence nearest that section of the colonies from which you
                     came. Hancock, and Samuel and John Adams, of Massachusetts."
                  "Pooh! The first, a West India merchant, a dealer in codfish and molasses, and
                     the others, tolerable lawyers," said the Doctor, sarcastically.
                  "Then, there is Sherman, of Connecticut, a man, I am told, of the most sterling
                     strength of mind."
                  "Pish! I knew him when he was a shoemaker, and now he is cobbling the
                     government."
                  "I wish, my dear sir," replied Fairfax, with energy, "that we had more such
                     cobblers in the country."
                  "No doubt, no doubt. Go on, Captain Fairfax, let me hear the list out."
                  "There is Franklin, sir, the philosopher—the man whose fame has extended
                     through Europe as the discoverer of electricity, who has drawn lightning from
                     the skies, and controlled it at his will. You will at least admit his talents,
                     sir?"
                  "Yes—yes, a man of fair abilities, and, I am told, was a clever practical
                     printer. He had better have stuck to his types and lightning rods, instead of
                     interfering with the machinery of government."
                  "Again, from the same colony, Dr. Manners, are Robert Morris and Dr. Rush. What
                     have you to say against them?"
                  "Oh! Morris is a good merchant and financier, and Dr. Rush is famous at
                     bleeding and making pills. What do they know about government?—pretty men,
                     forsooth, to sign Declarations of Independence!"
                  "But you must admit the talent of that man of your own cloth, Dr. Witherspoon,
                     of New Jersey?"
                  "Humph! Witherspoon makes a capital President of the College at Princeton, and
                     is a man of sound mind—that is, as far as a Scotch 
                        Calvanist
                        Calvinist
                      can be so. But the Doctor had better consult his Bible, and learn
                     that God is the protector of monarchs, and punishes a rebellious people."
                  "You forget, father," interrupted Miss Manners, "that God, also, in the same
                     book, punished wicked kings."
                  "Don't interrupt me now, my daughter—let Captain Fairfax go on. I am anxious to
                     hear the names of the great men of this rebel Congress, now hatching treason in
                     Philadelphia. Go on, sir."
                  All this was said in a tone of much excitement.
                  "There is Thomas Jefferson, sir, of my own native colony, Virginia."
                  "Jefferson, Jefferson—I do not know that I ever heard of him."
                  "A private letter from my father, now in Philadelphia, informs me that he is
                     the author of this very declaration of Independence, you condemn so loudly,"
                     was the proud answer of Fairfax.
                  "The author of this stuff—this trash! Then I am glad I never heard of him
                     before. Capt. Andre, let us take a stroll in the garden, and leave these two
                     rebels by themselves. That my daughter should harbor treason excites me."
                  "Ah, father! remember my American blood!"
                  And Mary shook her finger at her parent as he left the room in company with
                     Captain Andre. No sooner had the two disappeared, than there rose an
                     embarrassment between the couple that remained. Fairfax still held the letter
                     he had received from Burnham, and, as he crushed it in his fingers, he said,
                     without raising his eyes.
                  "You have received a letter from Harry, Miss Manners?"
                  "Yes," was the monosyllable reply.
                  "He informs me, in this letter, that he had written to you," said Fairfax.
                  There was a pause for full a minute. Miss Manners looked up at a cage, hanging
                     in the room, which contained two favorite pet birds. Fairfax looked out of the
                     window at something, probably hard to tell what. His eye might have been on a
                     tree, or a roof, but his mind was elsewhere. Lovers are as singular in their
                     thoughts as in their actions. His courage revived, and he ventured to look
                     around.
                  "Those birds are beautiful in plumage, and sweet singers, Mary," said
                     Fairfax.
                  "Yes, they are my pets, brought from the Canary Islands—rare birds, Frank.'
                  For the first time was now exchanged those two names, "Mary" and
                     "Frank," between them. Ah! but there is something in the sympathy, the
                     magnetism of love.
                  "Mary, will you let me read your letter, from Harry? Here is mine at your
                     service. I think the two were meant for us both."
                  Without saying a word, Miss Manners handed the letter she had received from
                     Burnham to Fairfax, and the latter gave her his own letter, which the readers
                     of our story will remember to have perused. Eagerly did Fairfax read what
                     follows:—
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "CAMP, NEW YORK, JULY 13, 1776.
                              
                              "My dear Mary:—To hear from me, I know, will give you
                                 pleasure—and to hear that I am well will add still greater
                                 satisfaction.
                              "Children together, brought up together, my dear Mary, it must be
                                 pleasant to hear of each other. I never think of Oakdale but I
                                 think of you, and I never think of either without emotion. We are
                                 separated in distance, but not in thought—we are separated, but not
                                 in opinions, for I know you to be the warmest patriot of your
                                 sex.
                              "It has ever grieved me that my good, hearty old tutor,
                                    (our tutor) your father, should be on the side of
                                 the enemy. His high tory church doctrines (pardon me, Mary, for
                                 saying this) however, lead him to believe that England must ever be
                                 right. England is not right now, and the consequences of the
                                 rebellion will tell deeply upon her trade and commerce. It is from
                                 this she is to suffer, and from this the colonies will be able to
                                 maintain their independence. In saying so much, I speak the
                                 opinions of those best capable of judging—the opinions of sound
                                 men.
                              "But what have such matters to do with me, I almost hear you
                                 exclaim, dear Mary, with justice. Nothing, I admit, but mention
                                 this part of my letter to your good, and, to me, ever revered
                                 father, however different we are in opinions.
                              "Now, my dear Mary, I approach you in a private
                                 manner, privacy, except so far as my friend Fairfax is concerned—to
                                 him I have written the truth, in detail. I have loved you, deeply
                                 and sincerely loved you. I love you still—I shall ever do so.
                                    Once, I thought that love to a different kind from
                                 what I now know it to be. I dreamed that the end would
                                 be marriage. Start not at this avowal—there is nothing criminal in
                                 the confession, on my part, although it may be mortifying. I now
                                 know that your love was that of a sister towards a brother—it is
                                 well—I shall be a brother to you, a true one, through life.
                              "It may seem childish in me to make this confession—perhaps I had
                                 better have kept it to myself. In doing so, however, I should have
                                 concealed the truth, and perhaps robbed a friend of happiness.
                              "Frank Fairfax loves you—loves you deeply—I come at once to the
                                 pith of my letter—and if I mistake not, you appreciate his manly
                                 qualities. Let me tell you what I think of him. For
                                 four years we were companions in college. His friendship was
                                 pure—his heart ever alive with the noblest attributes, and his mind
                                 full of the most honorable sentiments. In fact, he is one among a 
                                    millton
                                    million
                                 . Now, without offending your delicacy, my dear Mary—you
                                 should know I mean nothing of that kind—if Fairfax should offer his
                                 hand, (as I know he will) if you esteem him as I think you do,
                                 accept it; you will make a proud couple.
                              "I have written you freely, my dear Mary, but, what I have written,
                                 you know well enough, comes from the heart. The sacrifice is mine
                                 alone. Be happy. Give my best affections to your good father.
                              
                                 Ever your brother,
                                 HARRY BURNHAM."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  When Fairfax finished reading this letter, he looked towards Miss Manners, who
                     had apparently just concluded the reading of Burnham's epistle. It is needless
                     to say anything more. The carriage was ordered—there was a ride around the
                     country suburbs of Quebec, and some how, when Fairfax and Mary separated, (just
                     as the stars peeped out) there was a pure kiss—between them, they were an
                     affianced couple.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXI.
                  One evening, in the latter part of August, 1776, three officers, detailed for
                     duty on the outer post of sentries, occupied a small house, or rather hovel,
                     just beyond the hills of Flatbush, Long Island.
                  Matters were rapidly approaching a crisis. Sir William Howe, with nearly thirty
                     thousand men, had landed at Gravesend and New Utrecht, and it was expected
                     daily, that he would attack that portion of the American army under Putnam,
                     (Green having been relieved from the command on account of illness,) lying in
                     and about Brooklyn. The outer divisions were commanded by General Lord Sterling
                     and General Sullivan. If Brooklyn was taken by his army, Sir William Howe knew
                     that he could soon compel Washington to evacuate New York.
                  The three officers we have mentioned as on duty, on the extreme outpost, were
                     Burnham, Ki Lane, and Captain Hale, that noble and gallant youth, who, in one
                     short month afterwards, was hung in New York, as a spy, by the infamous
                     Cunningham, under the orders of Sir William Howe and a Court Martial. The
                     little lenity shown him on that occasion, had its influence upon Washington,
                     years afterwards, when he signed the death-warrant of Andre.
                  "This is the dullest outpost duty I have been on for a long time. Come, Hale,
                     give us a song, my boy, to cheer us."
                  "I never sing, Burnham, except some of those good old psalms, when at home in
                     the old-fashioned meeting-house at Coventry. I, you know, was intended by my
                     pious parents for the ministry."
                  "And turned soldier, a member, of the church militant, at that. I know you left
                     old Yale two years before me, and your conduct was the theme of praise by every
                     professor and tutor, as a model for some of us bad ones."
                  Hale was naturally of a grave and serious cast of mind, and, tradition says, of the most
                     scrupulous and exact character. He was teaching school at New London, when the
                     news of the battle of Lexington reached there. A meeting of the inhabitants was
                     at once called, to take measures for aiding their brethren of Massachusetts At
                     this meeting, Hale, it is said, spoke with eloquent vehemence in behalf of
                     affording succor and aid, and, the next morning, he marched to Boston at the
                     head of a fine company of volunteers, drawn together in a few hours.
                  This company afterwards became attached to Colonel Knowlton's regiment of
                     picked light infantry, a regiment which, before and after the fall of its first
                     commander on Harlem Heights, was a great favorite of Washington's.
                  "I am glad to hear, Burnham, that such good reports of me remain in the halls
                     of our Alma mater. Methinks I remember
                     certain pranks, played by a few freshmen, in introducing a cow, one night, into
                     our tutor Dwight's room, with a large pair of green goggles tied over her eyes,
                     and that the said tutor hastily fled, thinking that a certain ruler of hot
                     regions had paid him a visit. Do you recollect anything of the matter,
                     Burnham?"
                  "Most certainly I do—the names of two were Fairfax and Morris, the third one
                     may as well remain unmentioned. I believe it was thought that the three scamps
                     had been making free with too much St. Croix punch."
                  "Most probably such was the case," answered Hale—"in vino veritas there is but little truth, though it be good
                     Latin."
                  "I don't know what the Latin may mean, viner veritus, as you
                     speak, Captain Hale," said Ki, who now engaged in the conversation, "but
                     punch-bowls are dangerous things—that is, when there's liquor in 'em. After
                     that affair over in the Jarseys, Harry, when we saw them mashed and mangled
                     bodies by the water-side. I felt sick, and, after we got over in York, to
                     confess the truth, I took, at quarters, too much toddy. I had a dream in the
                     night, and, since then, I've given up rum rations, except now and then, on some
                     glorious occasion."
                  "Ha! ha!" laughed Burnham, heartily, "why, Ki, this is the first time I ever
                     thought liquor enough could be crowded into that long body of yours, to get it
                     tipsy. If one half should be drunk, the other part ought to be sober."
                  "Come, come, Harry, none of your rigs, if you please," answered Ki, "or I may
                     tell of certain matters in our quarters before Boston, in which sundry
                     gentlemen of Morgan's rifles, and of certain New England companies, caused the
                     disappearance of a particular barrel from the quartermaster's stores, by way of
                     making the joke even."
                  "If there disappeared but one barrel, the joke was an odd one,
                     Ki," said Burnham.
                  "I am anxious to hear Lane's dream, if he will be pleased to relate it,"
                     remarked Hale.
                  "Give it to us, Ki, my dear fellow, at once," said Burnham
                  "I've not the least objection, since you request it. The dream has a moral, and
                     a good one, and I hope, brother officers, we'll all understand and profit by it
                     to the fullest extent. It can do no harm."
                  "Why, my dear fellow, you are giving us a sermon. Come, the dream, the
                     dream."
                  "Take warning from the dream, then, Harry. You remember—after we had taken the
                     den, in the Jarseys, and driven off the ship-of-war's crew, aided by the
                     lightning and the rock that went thundering down—we got back to York sometime
                     before daylight, with the prisoners. In the guard-room was a big bowl of punch,
                     and, forgetting that I hadn't eat anything for a long time, I took several
                     cansfull, without much thought.
                  "Now, I don't boast of being so very temperate, yet I guess and reckon, no one
                     ever saw me the worse for taking a few cups, 'til this occasion. Somehow, I
                     thought I couldn't see straight, and it was so, truly, for after getting
                     relieved from duty, I made my way to my quarters, with two roads in sight,
                     where there wasn't but one.
                  "I recollect very well opening the door of the barracks, and have a faint
                     remembrance of taking my clothes off; at least a part of 'em, for, to tell the
                     truth, I found myself in bed, after coming to my senses, with my breeches and
                     shoes on, nothing else, so my memory was very treacherous, after all.
                  "Now for the dream. It seemed to me I had wings, and was flying over a vast
                     sea. I knew I was still Ki Lane, but I had all the powers of a bird. I felt
                     very dry, as much so that way, as if I'd been drinking a gallon or two of
                     cider, and that makes a man dry, the more he drinks. I thought to myself, I'd
                     fly down and taste the water; if it wasn't salt, I was determined to have a
                     good swallow. Down I went, tasted, and to my great delight, it was all one sea,
                     as far as the eye could reach, of punch!
                  "Never did anything taste so fine, so I drank and drank, and the more I
                     swallowed, the better I felt. I could fly over the world—I was master of
                     nations. Kings got down on their knees when I spoke, and common people trembled
                     when I shook my finger. Oh! what delightful powers of imagination.
                  "But I wasn't alone, not I—it seemed as if myriads of people with wings like
                     myself, came down to taste of the great sea of punch. Some flapped their wings
                     and crowed like cocks, after drinking—others roared and howled like lions, as
                     I've hearn tell on, and other beasts. Then another class would begin to deliver
                     speeches and preach to the others. It was a curious scene, although but a
                     dream. Now and then I'd see some old acquaintance, cutting up antics that made
                     me doubt whether it could be them.
                  "I saw two or three ministers and deacons, the best men in the world as I used
                     to think, flying about and grunting, like hogs after feedin' on rum cherries.
                     It raised my dander, indeed it did. 'Parson Jones,' says I to one of 'em,
                     'hadn't you better get away? some of the congregation will see you?' 'Go to
                     eternal damnation,' he answered, and then he flew or attempted to fly, but down
                     he sunk in the sea of punch and was drowned. So it was with every one. Thinks
                     I, 'this won't answer swer,' so I tried to fly, but couldn't get up any better
                     than the rest.
                  "Down I went in the punch. I felt, all the while I was sinking, a little
                     tapering off of the pleasure I felt, in tasting the sea on top. It grew bitter,
                     nauseous, as down, down, I went, until I reached the bottom. Oh! what a sight
                     presented itself.
                  "There was a furnace, containing more wood and charcoal to light it, than ever
                     I thought the world contained. On the furnace was a bowl that stretched out of
                     sight. This bowl held the Punch Sea, the great sea of fun, frolic, and
                     ruin.
                  "A big, dark-looking character, surrounded by a thousand similar looking
                     shapes, though none of them were of such important influence or size as the
                     chief, were throwing into the furnace all those who had sunk in that vast sea.
                     How they did burn and groan, as they were pitched in! Some of them flamed up,
                     and burned and flared so, (and they were men that I'd always thought the best
                     in our part of the country) that I considered that they were sarved completely
                     right, for their hypocrisy. Oh! how some of them did groan, as they melted off
                     to heat the punch bowl.
                  "I looked on, but I didn't care much about approaching the furnace, for I
                     thought my turn would come soon enough without pushing on, so I halted, as we
                     soldiers say, and kept my eyes about me. I felt, howsoever things went, it
                     would take the black old chap and two or three of his associates to pitch me
                     in, after a hard fight.
                  "Pretty soon, who should I see but Parson Jones about being made one of the
                     victims. How he did squirm and sing out, in all kinds of language! 'Ah!' says
                     the black man, 'I set a punch trap for you, and caught you, Mr.
                     Parson—I had my net around a long time ago, and you well know how I caught you
                     in worse scrapes than drinking punch. If you will get drunk on top of the rest
                     of your sins by stealing my liquor, why take the consequences!'
                  "Then he turned round, and, in a fierce tone, with a brimstone breath, his eyes
                     flashing fire, he said:
                  '"What are you doing here?'
                  "'A mere spectator,' said I, coolly;—'merely looking on to see how the fire
                     goes on.'
                  "'Don't you know that spectators are likely to be made charcoal of, on such
                     occasions,' he said, and his countenance seemed to grow wonderfully wild.
                  "'As to that,' I added, 'there's different opinions, but as to going into that
                     furnace I shan't nohow. I ain't made of charcoal, pine or oak, and you can't
                     get me there, try as you will.'
                  "Then he got wonderful wrathy, and called on two or three of his imps, to give
                     a lift in seizing hold of me and pitchin' me in.
                  "'No you can't,' says I, and, the first blow I made, I knocked down one of his
                     imps.
                  "Seein' what was goin' on, Parson Jones, who was then about half roasted,
                     roared out:
                  "'Oh! don't touch him; he's honest and faithful, yes he is, I know he is, he's
                     Ki Lane from Oakdale, in the colony of Connecticut.'
                  "Now this was very well, but there was one thing I didn't like at all—so I
                     thought I'd let 'em know it.
                  "'Parson Jones!' I yelled, 'it ain't a colony no longer, it's a State, free and
                     independent.'
                  "'Oh! oh!' said he, and down he went into the furnace.
                  "The dark black fellow, at this, turns round to me, and says:
                  "'Ki Lane, I know you, and I've got my eye on you—you can go out of this place
                     now, but, recollect, if I ever catch you again touching my sea of punch, you
                     won't be let off so easy.'
                  "'Thank you,' says I, 'if I'm found in such company again, may I be
                     darned.'
                  "As I prepared to start as speedily as possible, I felt a sudden kick that
                     lifted me, I can't tell how high, but I know it woke me up, and where do you
                     suppose I found myself?"
                  "In the river, perhaps, Ki, taking a quiet bath, as a winding up of your punch
                     drinking," said Burnham.
                  "I wish it had been. A pet goat of General Lee's, a favorite of mine, which he
                     gave me, that I always fed, not getting his breakfast in due season, came to
                     the bed, gave me a buck, that knocked me off, by which I upset the punch bowl
                     of our mess. Over me went the punch, and the goat likewise, and it was a hard
                     contest between us which would beat. I believe 'Charley Lee,' the goat, gave in
                     first, for all his butting.
                  "I hav'nt drank a glass or can of punch since, and I don't intend to, that's
                     certain, except on great occasions. Perhaps I may be wrong, but the fellow that
                     I saw feeding the furnace looked, for all the world, like the devil
                     himself"
                  Before either Captain Hale or Burnham could reply, two of the guard came in
                     with a third personage; he was dressed partly like a soldier and partly like a
                     sailor. His look was wild and haggard, and he gazed round with strange glances.
                     His eye fell upon Ki in an instant—he rushed forward, seized him by the hand,
                     and exclaimed;
                  "Why, yes, 'tis you—safe—safe—safe! One murder less than I've prayed to be
                     saved for, thank God!"
                  He was Jake Gatchell, who had first ensnared, and then saved Ki's life; the
                     recognition was mutual."
                  "Why, Jake, is it possible this is you?" said Ki, gazing upon him. "Little did
                     I think that you would ever run the risk of being caught in our lines."
                  "I'm not caught—I've come over to the right side—I've deserted."
                  "Deserted?" inquired Ki.
                  "Yes, sir—left the king's service forever, and joined my own countrymen, like a
                     man."
                  "Jake, Jake, your's has been a terrible life!" said Ki.
                  "I know it—let me die on the side of Congress and the people, and for once do
                     right"
                  "Where is that old hag, your mother? She ought to be responsible for all that
                     you have done."
                  "She is safe, for she has more lives than a cat, to pass through all that she has done.
                     She's my mother, but I've done with all affection. She'd destroy me as quick as
                     any one else, if I stood in her way."
                  "Where is she now?" said Ki.
                  "With Grant's division, at New Utrecht, or else with De Heister, at Flatlands.
                     She's a camp-follower, and has a suttler's wagon at her disposal. I know her no
                     more as a mother."
                  "And she escaped that rock which fell from the heights, when the lightning
                     struck and split it off?—a narrow chance, but fortunately, it seems."
                  "Not so fortunate neither. It cost the ship the lives of nearly twenty of her
                     crew, picked men, that rock killing and crushing them like so many flies. Then
                     there was at least twenty more killed, or taken prisoners, in the fight."
                  "And all for the in habitants of that den, as it was called?"
                  "Yes, sir, all for them."
                  "But how came you to separate, and be elsewhere than with your mother and
                     brothers?"
                  "It's a long story, and I'll tell you another time. I've come over to save you,
                     and tell you that, before midnight, your outer picket will be cut off, unless
                     you get a reinforcement."
                  Burnham, who, with his companion, had been listening, now spoke:
                  "What do you mean by that?"
                  "Why, this, sir—as you appear to be the commander of the picket guard—a
                     deserter came over to Grant's camp an hour ago, and stated your exact position.
                     I, hearin' the whole of his story, and detarmind to be a patriot, as I ought to
                     be, deserted to bring you the news."
                  It was true that, at roll-call, one of the men was missing, but the idea of his
                     deserting had never entered into the minds of any of the officers or men.
                  "Describe his person," said Burnham.
                  Jake described the man so accurately that there could be no mistake about it,
                     and orders were at once given to send a dragoon to Putnam's camp, for the
                     purpose of obtaining a reinforcement. Jake's account of the position of the
                     English army and the Hessian auxiliaries was so important, that Burnham
                     determined to send him at once to head-quarters.
                  Accordingly, Burnham, being the superior of Hale, directed the latter officer
                     to proceed at once to head-quarters with Jake Gatchell, to relate the position
                     of the armies, and everything connected with their movements, as far as Jake
                     knew, and his immediate acquaintance with affairs.
                  The arrangements in regard to the surprise of the outposts, next required the
                     attention of Burnham and Lane. The messenger despatched to Putnam's camp soon
                     returned with a reinforcement of men, and the disposition of the guard was
                     renewed, under different stations, with a right view as related to any
                     surprise.
                  Ki received his instruction, with a particular regard to a certain point
                     destined for attack, just below the height of wood, where was a narrow
                     causeway, whilst Burnham took his position on the main road, with a strong
                     outflank.
                  In this position, with everything under arms, the party awaited the attack. The
                     moon, which shone brightly until the hours reached the tens, began to fade,
                     when, suddenly, a few rockets were shot off in the direction of Gravesend. The
                     surprise of the further outpost by Grant was conceived of great importance, and
                     for this purpose the flower of the British army had been designated, several
                     days previous to the battle of Long Island.
                  A range of hills, occupying the present ground of Greenwood Cemetery, run
                     nearly from Flatbush and Flatlands, across the lower part of Nassau, or Long
                     Island, as it is now called, and on the ridge of these hills were encamped a
                     large portion of the American army, under Lord Sterling.
                  Yet, in those days of comparative warfare, these heights could be carried, and
                     they were, unfortunately, occupied by a great number of the best of the
                     American troops.
                  A low range of orchards, resting in a valley, as it might be called, filled
                     with fast-ripening apples, skirted the range of the outposts. A detachment of
                     troops had been sent down from the main camp at Brooklyn, by the order of
                     Putnam, as soon as he received the information from Burnham, and a general
                     preparation was made to receive the enemy at the outposts.
                  Behind a range of stone walls, Ki Lane was stationed with the advance. Not a
                     living being was to be seen in that small encampment of men, who there
                     determined to await the enemy's advance, and give desperate warning of the
                     approach of the foe.
                  It so happened that Sir William Howe, who had determined on this night to make
                     a general attack on the American lines, was detained from so doing by the
                     coming in of a deserter from the American lines, stating that the rebels were
                     fully prepared to receive him and his forces.
                  Merely sending forth his advanced columns or scouting parties, he divided his
                     army in three divisions, to approach the camp by different routes.
                  This approach in regular line, of course, was the cause of sending forth many
                     small detachments, to ascertain the position of Putnam's outer-posts. It should
                     be remembered that Putnam only assumed command after the illness of Greene, and
                     that he understood but slightly the means of the approach by the enemy. Putnam
                     has been sometimes censured for the loss of the battle of Long Island, but if
                     censure should fall upon any one, it was Sullivan, who commanded the division,
                     by which the British troops got in the rear of the American troops, by the
                     Bedford road or pass. Sullivan relied too much upon his scouts, and it was by
                     the Bedford road that they reached Brooklyn without hindrance, and thus
                     overcame the rear of the American army, by getting between them and the
                     redoubts.
                  As this occurred, however, some days after the events we are narrating, we
                     shall allude to it more fully in the proper time
                  A slight noise was heard along the road in the direction from whence the
                     British scouts were expected to advance. It was evident from the sound that one
                     or more pieces of artillery were also on the road, and that something more than
                     a mere driving in of the picket guard might be expected. Giving a few orders to
                     those immediately under him, Ki went forward a short distance to notice the
                     advance.
                  Some dozen horsemen, dragoons, commanded by a Cornet, with a small red-cross
                     flag, which he bore in one hand, the staff resting on his foot, marked the
                     advance, next came one or two companies of foot, immediately succeeded by a
                     piece of artillery, with a company of cannoneers and matross men. At the word
                     "halt," the officers in command rode forward, whilst the artillerymen
                     unlimbered their gun.
                  Approaching nearer, and concealing himself under the shadows of the orchard, Ki
                     found that this advanced body denoted rather the appearance of a portion of the
                     main army, than a mere reconnoisance. Sending
                     word to Burnham, and awaiting the advance of his portion of the guard, he
                     fearlessly took his own position.
                  It had so happened that an additional company of soldiers from the main guard,
                     had been added to the picket a day or two before, and that this company was
                     under the immediate control of Ki, as long as his superior in rank, Burnham,
                     was at a distance.
                  The British, in forming, faced directly in front of the stone wall, and it was
                     a high one, behind which Ki had placed his men. An ordinary bar fence led into
                     the enclosure or orchard, and the British officer dismounting, gave his horse's
                     bridle to his Orderly, whilst he got over the fence, and advanced cautiously
                     under cover of the wall, as he supposed.
                  He had not certainly got twenty yards from his command, when he was suddenly
                     seized and gagged by Ki, whose iron grip, both "in jaw and limb," never failed
                     to do execution on such occasions, whilst, at the same instant, he gave word to
                     his men,
                  "Fire, and charge!"
                  The orders were promptly obeyed, and the men, after delivering a volley, rushed
                     forward on the charge. A sharp conflict took place. The piece of artillery was
                     brought to bear upon the Americans, the latter having attacked too much on the
                     flank, which killed several men.
                  Ki 
                        perceiviflg
                        perceiving
                      that things were not working as well as he expected, after sending
                     his prisoner to the rear, under charge of a Corporal, pressed forward and took
                     personal part in the conflict. He found his men acting rather too much "on
                     their own hook," each one firing as he pleased, but yet they were driving the
                     enemy before them, who were inclined to retreat by the road on which they had
                     advanced.
                  Burnham, on hearing the firing, immediately pushed on to relieve his advance,
                     and, fortunately, struck the road beyond that portion not yet reached by the
                     retreating foe. Forming his men across the road, and stationing portions still
                     further down, he was prepared to receive them.
                  The conflict on the part of Ki was rapid and severe. At times, the discharge
                     from the piece of artillery on the side of the foe, illuminated the scene, and
                     struck down the men that too eagerly pressed forward in pursuit on the side of
                     the Americans.
                  But the matter was rapidly approaching a crisis—to the surprise of the scouting
                     party, they found themselves between two fires on their retreat, and in a brief
                     time, they were compelled to surrender to the united forces of Burnham and Ki,
                     though a party much inferior to the assailing one.
                  The surrender was made without any proviso on the part of those who
                     surrendered, for a very good reason— the officers and men were all Hessians,
                     with the exception of two, one an English officer, who had been killed, and the
                     other, a prisoner, had been sent into the Brooklyn lines, under charge of the
                     guard, to be conveyed to head-quarters.
                  The officer in command of the party who surrendered, knew just enough of the
                     English language to state that he belonged to General De Heister's division,
                     which lay near the Flatlands, and that he had been sent out under the command
                     of a British officer, to attack certain outposts. The missing of this officer,
                     with no knowledge of the interior roads, caused him to surrender.
                  Over one hundred and twenty men, together with a fine six-pounder gun, were the
                     results of the joint efforts of Burnham and Ki, elicited from the communication
                     of Jake Gatchell, the repentant—a repentant, indeed.
                  This capture was the prelude, all hoped, of a speedy defeat to the assailants,
                     Sir William Howe and his troops, when they attacked the American lines, for the
                     purpose of driving them out of Brooklyn. A vain hope, as it turned out in the
                     sequel, but not on the part of that division to which Burnham and Ki were
                     attached.
                  The Hessians, privates and officers, were speedily marched into the camp at
                     Brooklyn, and the frustration occasioned by the defeat of this small force,
                     caused a delay of several days on the part of the British Commander-in-Chief,
                     in his final and victorious assailment on the latter days of August.
                  The result of Bunker's Hill was too recent for a man like Sir William Howe,
                     brave to a fault, but cautious withal, to risk an immediate attack. His fame,
                     if any was to be gained, was to rest upon a sure basis of victory, a victory
                     which should lead to a speedy return to allegiance on the part of the colonies,
                     without irritating them too much.
                  When day broke, and the outer guard was relieved by a new one, the company
                     marched into the lines, under the gaze of their cheering comrades, who had
                     heard and duly appreciated the victory gained by them over the scouting
                     party
                  The first inquiry made by Burnham, of Burr, who was then acting as the aid-de
                     camp of Putnam, was as to the disposition of Jake Gatchell, who had been sent
                     forward, it will be recollected, under the charge of Captain Hale.
                  
                  "He has been sent across the river, under control of the Captain, to
                     head-quarters, Burnham."
                  "Then the results of the communication of Gatchell have not been heard?"
                  "No—but it's my opinion they are of importance. A few moments ago Col. Knowlton
                     was sent for, and he is now on his way across the river, by orders of the
                     Commander-in-Chief."
                  "Are you certain of this?" said Ki.
                  "As certain as this,—that Knowlton was sent for, and you know Hale belongs to
                     his regiment. He took the deserter over, and you can form your opinions as well
                     as I mine, that he must have communicated something of importance."
                  "Yes, undoubtedly. Grant and De Heister, the Hessian, are near us, and
                     Cornwallis and Clinton are advancing, or intend to advance, in the direction of
                     Sullivan's division," said Burnham.
                  "Is the old General to be seen, Major Burr?" inquired Ki.
                  "Yes; at least I think he is by this time. I left 'my good old General'*
                      shaving himself from a heard of a week's growth. He loves a Yankee as
                     he loves his life, and you, Lane, happen to be 'Old Put's' particular
                     favorite."
                  
                     
                     *Burr always used this expression towards Putnam, when acting as his
                        aid.
                  
                  "Thank you, Major, for the information. With my senior's permission, I'll give
                     him a call."
                  "Go, Ki, my dear fellow, at once," was the answer of Burnham.
                  The conversation that ensued between Ki and Putnam was of an hour's duration.
                     The former would not stay to breakfast, although earnestly requested to do so
                     by the veteran fighter on the frontier with the French and Indians.
                  "No, General," he said, "I am anxious to see the Commander-in-Chief at once,
                     perhaps I can gain some information from Jake, that no other can—we are old
                     acquaintances, and his life rests upon what I may say. The enemy are near us,
                     and the engagement now close at hand may rest upon what I can communicate."
                  With this remark, and permission from Putnam, Ki was soon on his way across the
                     river to head-quarters at New York
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXII.
                  Captain Hale, with Gatchell, on reaching the New York side, was directed by
                     Colonel Knowlton to proceed to the quarters of the Commander-in-Chief, who had
                     been for some days desirous of obtaining more accurate intelligence about the
                     enemy's situation on Long Island.
                  Washington was glad to hear from Captain Hale the success of Burnham and his
                     men, in capturing the enemy's party during the night, and was, if anything,
                     still more gratified on being told that a deserter was in the next room, who
                     could give every information required.
                  Gatchell was immediately brought in, and Captain Hale, having finished his
                     duty, took his leave. The conversation between the Commander-in-Chief and the
                     deserter was very long, and must have been of important interest.
                  At the close, Gatchell was placed in the charge of a Sergeant, and an Orderly
                     was instantly despatched to Colonel Knowlton's quarters, requesting the
                     immediate attendance of that officer.
                  In a very short time, Knowlton made his appearance, and was closeted alone with
                     Washington.
                  "I have sent for you, Colonel Knowlton, on business of importance. The deserter
                     you sent to me has communicated, if true, matters highly
                     interesting to the cause we are both fighting for."
                  Here he paused a moment, looking Knowlton steadily in the face, as if he wished
                     the latter to make some reply.
                  "May I ask, your Excellency, what service I can render in the matter?"
                  "It is on that account, Colonel Knowlton, I have sent for you. The business is
                     a delicate one, and one that many would shrink from undertaking, on account of
                     the nature of the service."
                  "What service is it, sir?"
                  "You are aware of the position of our troops on Long Island. Undisciplined, and
                     ill-supplied with arms, they have to oppose the advance of forces far
                     superior—the pride of the British army. It, therefore, becomes necessary that
                     we should ascertain, as near as possible, the exact position of the enemy, and,
                     if possible, the route by which they will most probably advance, so that we can
                     take our positions accordingly."
                  "You wish, then, sir, some one to undertake the office of spy?"
                  "It is a harsh word, and one that a soldier hardly considers honorable—but you
                     have hit my meaning."
                  "It is a service of danger, and one that requires a shrewd, faithful and
                     trust-worthy man to engage in, your Excellency."
                  "That is what I am aware of, and I require such a man."
                  "And you wish me, sir, to procure one for you to undertake this duty?"
                  "I do. Your regiment is composed of picked officers and men from the New
                     England line, and many of them are well acquainted, undoubtedly, with Long
                     Island, and the localities of the enemy's position. The deserter who has come
                     over has given intelligence apparently correct—I wish to ascertain its truth at
                     this time."
                  "I will endeavor, sir, to find such a man in my regiment. I have no doubt there
                     will be many willing to undertake it."
                  "I should prefer, Colonel, some one of your officers would undertake it."
                  "An officer, sir?" inquired Knowlton, with some surprise.
                  "Yes—a man of address and education."
                  "It will be difficult to succeed, I fear, then. Not for want of nerve or
                     courage among the officers, but he who holds s commission hates to undertake
                     the disgraceful duties of a spy."
                  "True, very true, but there will be no harm in seeing if one is willing to
                     serve. I will take care, let what may happen, that no dishonor shall fall upon
                     his name."
                  "Well, sir, I will do my best to prevail upon one of my officers to serve."
                  "No, no," answered Washington, quickly, "I do not wish anything of that kind to
                     be done. The person I want must volunteer, when the proposition is
                     stated. He must go of his own free will, not by a compulsion, or what he may
                     consider as almost an order."
                  "I will summon my officers together, your Excellency, and state your request.
                     The offer to serve shall, as you state, be voluntary."
                  "When will this be done?"
                  "Immediately, sir."
                  "The sooner the better, Colonel, for, in two or three days, the lines in
                     Brooklyn and beyond will be attacked without doubt."
                  "It shall be attended to without delay."
                  "Remember one thing, Colonel, and I before stated it to you, that, whatever may
                     befall the individual who undertakes this task, should it be death itself, no
                     disgrace shall fall upon his name, and, if we obtain our freedom, our posterity
                     will hold his memory in sweet remembrance."
                  Washington rose, as he said these words, which Knowlton knew was a signal that
                     the conference had ended.
                  Knowlton's quarters were in Maiden Lane, then so called, as now. His men
                     occupied the houses from which the inhabitants had fled, or left the city in
                     consequence of the difficulties then prevailing. It may not be amiss to state
                     that along Maiden Lane was the parade-ground for most of the troops in the
                     city.
                  Within one hour, Knowlton had all his officers assembled at his quarters. Among
                     them were Brown, (who, on the glorious fall of Knowlton, was appointed to the
                     command of the regiment,) Hull—so famous, or infamous, in the opinion of many,
                     for his disgraceful surrender of our troops to General Brock, during the last
                     war—and several others, who rendered, on many a bloody field, noble aid for
                     their country's independence.
                  Knowlton stated to his officers the reasons for his calling them together at
                     that hour. In concluding his remarks, he related what the Commander-in-Chief
                     had said. That, if it should so happen that the officer who volunteered on this
                     duty should lose his life, his countrymen should know how, and when, and for
                     what purpose the sacrifice was made.
                  Knowlton had scarcely concluded his remarks, when a young officer, about
                     twenty-three or four years of age, rose and said:
                  "Colonel Knowlton, I will undertake the service. In times like these, when
                     principles are contended for, it is but right and proper that some should offer
                     themselves for posts of danger. Without this, it will be useless for us to
                     contend against that powerful kingdom with which we are at war. The sacrifice
                     of one man is a mere drop in the bucket, when that sacrifice will benefit the
                     whole. I do not say this to magnify the dangers of the service which the
                     Commander-in-Chief asks, but it should be a solemn agreement among us all even
                     to hold our lives as nothing, when demanded by our country."
                  So sudden had been the assent of Hale, that no other officer, however inclined,
                     had the least chance to volunteer. What he said, however, showed so sincere a
                     love and affection of his country, that his sentiments were nobly and truly
                     appreciated. There was a general buzz of approbation among them all.
                  "Do I understand you, Captain Hale, as willing to undertake this dangerous
                     task?"
                  "Most assuredly, Colonel Knowlton," was Hale's reply. "To me there can be no
                     pleasanter duty than to lay down my life for my country when she requires
                        it."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Capt. Hale's own words.
                  
                  "Your decision is very sudden, Captain."
                  "My mind has long ago been made up as to my duties, on all occasions."
                  "True, but you should have some time for reflection. If I mistake not, you have
                     dear friends at home, who would dread to hear of your sacrifice in such a
                     manner."
                  "I am ready for any sacrifice in such a cause," was the instant reply.
                  Several officers rose from the council, and offered their services at once,
                     some of them stating that they had less family attachments than Hale, and that
                     they were ready to undertake the task.
                  "Gentlemen," said the brave Captain, "I am, in this instance, the first in the
                     field. You must excuse me in declining any substitute. I have volunteered in
                     sincerity, and will abide the risk."
                  "Since you have so decided, Captain," said Knowlton, "of course no other
                     officer can be accepted in your place. Still it is well to think a little. For
                     that purpose, I adjoin the council for half an hour. Gentlemen, dinner is
                     almost ready, and you will please stop and take such as my cook has to offer
                     you in the shape of corned pork and vegetables, Congress rations, and whatever
                     little niceties my cook may otherwise possess. If our appetites are good we
                     will relish the meal."
                  When the officers had dissolved their meeting, numbers crowded around Hale, and
                     requested him to resign his dangerous errand in their favor. The young officer
                     was inexorable, and no representation of the danger could make him forego his
                     design.
                  One officer, younger than himself, an orphan, in vain endeavored to persuade
                     him to relinquish the dangerous enterprise.
                  "I am," said he, "alone in the world; I have neither parent, brother or sister
                     to mourn my loss, then let me go."
                  "No," was the reply of Hale.
                  Hull, then a Captain, strove also to make him relinquish his determination, all
                     was in vain!
                  "You," said another officer, "are engaged to be married, I implore you to give
                     up this undertaking."
                  "True, I am engaged to be married," was the reply of Hale, "but my country,
                     before even love."†
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     †This lady is still living, a widow, (for she afterwards married in
                        Hartford) we are informed. It is said she has the only miniature of Hale
                        ever taken, and keeps it concealed. By and bye we shall have a likeness
                        of this noble soldier.
                  
                  
                  The allotted half hour was spent at Knowlton's quarters. Hale was personally
                     very popular in the regiment, and his acceptance of so dangerous a commission
                     was the theme of much conversation.
                  At the expiration of the time, when all again met, Hale still persisted in
                     undertaking to perform what the Commander-in-Chief requested. In vain did Hull,
                     his very intimate friend at that time, endeavor to dissuade him to withdraw his
                     proffer, which he then could do with honor, as it was known only to the
                     officers of the regiment.‡
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     ‡Facts, as related by Capt. Hull himself.
                  
                  "Hull," said Hale, "two things should guide the career of the soldier who
                     fights on the side of his country—honor and duty. To me these are everything. I
                     have never disgraced the first—the last I have not had sufficient opportunities
                     to put in practice. A great one now offers."
                  "All this is very true, my dear Hale, but should you be detected, you know the
                     punishment that awaits the spy."
                  "Yes, very well—death!"
                  "And that death is upon the gallows!"
                  "True. I am prepared."
                  "Then I am to understand that your mind is fixed upon the matter, and that you
                     are determined to go."
                  "I am."
                  "Then, my friend, I will no further seek to change it," said Hull, taking hold
                     of Hale's hand, "but I have a fearful presentiment that you never will
                     return."
                  "Away with these idle thoughts, Hull," was the reply of the young officer.
                     "Come, I see Colonel Knowlton is awaiting my last decision."
                  Knowlton regarded Hale with no small interest as he came towards him."
                  "Well, Captain Hale," said he, "do you remain firm in your decision?"
                  "I do," was the instant reply. "I consider that some one should undertake this
                     office, and I am proud to be the man."
                  There could be no further dispute about the matter. The officers heard Hale's
                     decision in solemn silence—an ominous one, and many an eye was wet with
                     tears.
                  "When will you be ready?"
                  "This moment, or as soon as the Commander-in-Chief gives me instructions."
                  "Such being your calm decision, you will please be prepared to accompany me to
                     the Commander-in-Chief's quarters before another half hour passes away," said
                     Knowlton. "Gentlemen, the regimental council is dissolved. You will please to
                     remember that our proceedings are on this occasion particularly secret."
                  The officers, one and all, crowded around Hale, and took him by the hand. The
                     service which he was about to undertake was so fraught with danger, one in
                     which there was a probability, and so likely a one, that he never might
                     return—why wonder for their anxious and foreboding sensibility.
                  At that early period of the war, when the English commanders considered all the
                     Americans in the light of 'rebels'—and to hang them, if it could be done with
                     any degree of reason, was considered just and right, particularly if caught in
                     their camps as spies, the imminent danger of Hale's undertaking may be
                     conceived.
                  "Gentlemen," said Hale, "I deeply and fully appreciate your sympathies on this
                     occasion. It shows on your part a kindness and respect for me, that, probably,
                     I little deserve. Of one thing rest assured, I shall never be a disgrace to the
                     regiment or the cause I have espoused. If it is destined that I should fail in
                     this undertaking, no matter in what way I die, you will hear that I passed out
                     of existence as became a soldier, a patriot, and, I hope, a christian."
                  What answer could be made to this? There was many a turning away of eyes, many
                     a firmer grasp of hands, and many a sob.
                  Knowlton and Hale, when this scene was concluded, took their route for
                     head-quarters. Leaving Hale in the outer room, Knowlton was admitted to the
                     private writing apartment of Washington.
                  The industry of Washington was very remarkable. It was ever a rule with him
                     from early life, to leave nothing undone for to-morrow that could be finished
                     to-day In all his multifarious correspondence with the Congress, his generals
                     and subordinate officers, besides his own private matters, he would never
                     suffer anything to go behind. Many of his letters are dated at midnight, "hours
                     stolen from those devoted to sleep," as he once expressed it, in a letter to
                     the President of Congress. Indefatigable in every thing, he impressed portions
                     of his great character upon all around him. His military family, duly sensible
                     of this, soon became, as it were, part of himself.
                  He was engaged in writing when Knowlton was announced, and when he entered the
                     room.
                  "Ah! Colonel, I am glad to see you return so soon. Have you obtained a
                     volunteer for the purpose wanted?"
                  "I have, your excellency."
                  "Who is he?"
                  "An officer of my regiment, Captain Nathan Hale."
                  "Is not that the name of the officer who brought the deserter to my
                     quarters?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "He appeared to me to be a young gentleman of good address and education."
                  "He is, sir, a soldier of tried worth and merit, he possesses every
                     qualification that belongs to the man and the patriot."
                  "It is hard to make such a sacrifice, for sacrifice it may become," said
                     Washington, in a tone of voice half heard and half not, for he was reasoning
                     with himself, "but still it is necessary. Where is he, Colonel Knowlton?" he
                     inquired, raising his voice.
                  "He is in the next room, General?"
                  "Ready so soon, indeed!" he said, musingly; "what is his age?"
                  "Twenty-three or four, sir."
                  "So young, and so willing to put himself in the place of danger and death,
                     where none of the glories which mark a soldier's fall on the field of battle
                     can rest upon his memory, or the wreath of laurel fade over his grave, when
                     placed there by those who knew his valor in the fury and tempest of the
                     thickest strife. Perhaps it is well. The risk must be run. From what colony
                     does he come?"
                  "The same colony, or State, as we now term it, to which I
                     belong—Connecticut."
                  "Are his parents alive?"
                  "Yes, your Excellency."
                  Knowlton then proceeded to give the history of Hale, when he entered into the
                     army, his leading the volunteers from New London to Boston, after the battle of
                     Lexington, and such other details as he deemed would please the General to
                     hear. To all, Washington listened with great interest and attention.
                  "You say, Colonel Knowlton, that this young officer is here?"
                  "He is, sir."
                  "Then be so good as to ask him in."
                  Knowlton left the room, and in a short time returned with Hale. Washington
                     requested them to be seated, and directed all his attendants to leave the room.
                     This done, he said, turning to Hale:
                  "I understand, Captain Hale, that you are willing to cross over to Long Island,
                     and enter the enemy's camp, for the purpose of obtaining such intelligence as
                     will benefit the cause?"
                  "Most willingly, sir," was the prompt reply.
                  "You are aware of the danger, and the disgraceful death, if I may call it such,
                     that awaits detection?"
                  "Fully, sir. None of us can die but once, and, if I have the opportunity to
                     benefit our common country by running the risk, I am willing and ready to
                     undertake it. I shall perish, at the worst, in a glorious and noble cause—what
                     other death should a man seek?"
                  "Well and truly said, my brave young friend. I will not argue with you about
                     its merits. You have accepted an office of danger, at my proposal, for the
                     benefit of the whole colonies. I am told, by Colonel Knowlton, that you are
                     ready to set out upon the undertaking immediately?"
                  "I am ready, sir, from this moment, merely with the exception of the proper
                     time devoted to a right change of dress."
                  "Then we will proceed to business."
                  Washington rang a small bell on the table beside him, when his Orderly
                     entered.
                  "Tell the Sergeant, who has the deserter, Gatchell, in his charge, to bring him
                     here at once."
                  In due time, Gatchell was brought in, and Washington proceeded, after
                     questioning him in the presence of Knowlton and Hale, to give the latter his
                     instructions. The details and mode of communication were interesting. At
                     length, the conference ended, and the parties were about to separate.
                  "Captain Hale," said Washington, taking him by the hand, "if it should be your
                     lot to perish in this enterprise—your name will not be forgotten, and when an
                     opportunity offers, your death will be avenged."
                  Prophetic words! The after fate of Andre tells the sequel.
                  That night, in the garb of a countryman, Hale passed over on his fatal errand
                     in the enemy's camp at Long Island.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIII.
                  When Ki reached the New York side, as quick as possible, he went to
                     head-quarters. At the threshold he met Major Cobb, acting officer for the day,
                     one of the General's aid-de-camps.
                  "Ah! Ki, what brings you here in such haste? Is it to report Burnham's and your
                     achievement of last night? If so, let me tell you it has reached head-quarters,
                     and given great satisfaction to the General, I can assure you."
                  "Nothing of the kind, my dear Major. I wished to see the Commander-in-Chief on
                     some particular business, and that in a private way, although belonging to the
                     public service."
                  "Is it of so much importance as to call for your seeing him immediately,
                     Lane?"
                  "I think it is."
                  "Then I will see if he is disengaged, though, I rather think, from what
                     Hamilton said, a few moments ago, some important dispatches were making out to
                     send to Congress; wait here until I return."
                  Ten, fifteen, twenty minutes passed away, but the General's aid did not return.
                     Ki continued to stride backward and forward, now pausing for a moment, then
                     twisting the fingers of his enormous hands, as if anxiety and anger were
                     contending for the mastery. At length, turning to an Orderly who stood at the
                     door of the apartment, he said:
                  "Why, Orderly, is the General really so busy that he can't be seen?"
                  "I can't say, sir, but I saw his man, Billy,*
                      saddling his horse a few moments ago. He's going out with a squadron of
                     his guard, to see the forts throwing up on Harlem Heights."†
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Billy was the body servant of Washington. A faithful black from his Mount
                        Vernon estate, who was with him during the whole revolution.
                  
                  
                     
                     †Fort Washington. The remains of some of the redoubts and earth works yet
                        remain.
                  
                  "Then I'll wait until he mounts, for I want to speak to him, and that
                     speedily."
                  "Well, sir, you'll have a chance soon, I reckon," replied the Orderly; "here
                     comes Major Cobb now."
                  "Lieutenant," said the Major, when he reached Ki's side, "the
                     Commander-in-Chief is about visiting the outworks on Harlem Heights. I have not
                     seen him, but Hamilton says it will be better for you to remain until he
                     returns, which will be in the afternoon. See, through the window yonder, he is
                     just mounting."
                  Ki looked, as directed, and saw Washington on horseback, surrounded by a
                     portion of his staff, together with a part of his guard, to which Ki yet
                     properly belonged.
                  Without saying a word to Major Cobb or the Orderly, Ki left the room, and was
                     soon in the midst of the cavalcade. All gave way before his tall figure, and he
                     strode up without out let or
                     hindrance to the side of the Commander-in-Chief. A smile of recognition rose on
                     the face of Washington, as he saw Ki advance, and staying his horse, he touched
                     his chapeau, and then extended his hand to the Lieutenant.
                  "I am glad to see you, Lane," he said; "I was afraid that you had forgotten
                     there was such a place as head-quarters."
                  "No, your Excellency, I cannot forget my General's quarters. I never trouble,
                     unless with reason, I hope. May I claim your Excellency's ear for a
                     moment?"
                  Washington bent his head, and Ki said a few words to him in a low tone, which
                     seemed to create some surprise on the part of Washington, judging from his
                     countenance. Dismounting his horse, and throwing his bridle to his negro Billy,
                     he said:
                  "Gentlemen, the visit to the fortifications on Harlem Heights must be postponed
                     for an hour. At the end of that time you will again assemble."
                  Taking Ki by the arm, and inclining his head at the same time, as if listening
                     with much attention, he passed into the mansion where his quarters were held,
                     to the great wonderment of some of the young officers of his staff.
                  We will narrate a portion of the conference which took place between the
                     Commander-in-Chief and Lieutenant Lane.
                  "If Grant, Clinton and Cornwallis are advancing in these three divisions, as
                     you say, the arrangements appear to be well made by Putnam. Sterling on the
                     right, Sullivan on the left, with the scouts in the centre, to give notice of
                     Clinton's approach, and the covering of our lines in the centre by the main
                     body under Putnam, should give Howe such a check as may postpone hostilities
                     for a season, sufficiently to give our raw troops some advantage of
                     discipline."
                  "I fear much, sir, that the centre is not sufficiently guarded. Woodhull's
                     light horse, to whom this important charge is intrusted, are too little skilled
                     in discipline, and want their own way too much, to pay due attention to this
                     detail of duty."
                  "General Woodhull, I am informed, is a shrewd and able officer, one who has
                     seen service in the late French war."
                  "Yes, sir, but he cannot see to all things, for he is in command of a brigade
                     of militia, and the men whom he sends to watch the Bedford road are brave
                     enough, I suppose, but careless in their duties."
                  "That may all be; but, in the last communication received from General
                     Sullivan, he writes me that he has employed a hired patrol to guard the same
                     pass."
                  "Your Excellency is most likely informed correctly, and I am glad to hear that
                     such extra precautions have been taken to guard the road. Now, sir, I have a
                     proposition to make, which, I hope, will receive your approbation. I should
                     like to enter the enemy's camp, and obtain the necessary information as to
                     their movements. I can return by to-morrow evening, and the information may be
                     important. The deserter, Gatchell, may be mistaken in some points, although,
                     your Excellency, I think him faithful."
                  "That post of danger, Lieutenant, is already occupied—I have sent an officer
                     into the enemy's camp"
                  Ki looked up with surprise. This project had been the chief cause of his
                     leaving the camp at Brooklyn. During the progress of the war, so far, he had
                     become accustomed to dangerous enterprises, and he began to love them from
                     habit.
                  "May I inquire of your Excellency, the name of the officer who has undertaken
                     this duty?"
                  "I have no reason in concealing it from you, Lieutenant. The
                     officer is Captain Hale, of Colonel Knowlton's regiment."
                  "A good choice, sir, but I should rather have taken his place. He will be more
                     likely to fall a sacrifice than myself. I am better acquainted than he with the
                     routes, and, besides, I have friends to our cause on the island, and he, I
                     think, has none."
                  "What friends?" inquired Washington.
                  "Some who are apparently on the side of the enemy, and yet are, in reality,
                     not. I could have been concealed by them, without trouble, and they would have
                     obtained the information for me."
                  "I am sorry that I did not know this before. It must now be too late to recall
                     Captain Hale, for he left instantly for the enemy's camp."
                  "I am sorry, your Excellency, also, that I did not know it before. Is there any
                     communication to be sent to General Sullivan, for I am immediately under his
                     command?"
                  "I shall send my orders over to General Putnam late in the afternoon," replied
                     Washington, "and among them will be the instructions for Lord Sterling and
                     General Sullivan. As you doubt the guarding of the pass by the Bedford road, I
                     shall direct particular attention to that entrance, and request that you assume
                     the matter, through the orders of General Sullivan."
                  "Thank your Excellency," replied Ki, rising, as he prepared to leave, "I shall
                     consider this order as coming from you as soon as received through the proper
                     channel, my immediate commanding officer."
                  "Stay one moment," said Washington, "I have something for you, if Adjutant
                     General Reed has attended to the matter." He left the apartment, whilst Ki
                     remained, wondering what could be meant by this remark of the
                     Commander-in-Chief.
                  But a few moments elapsed when the General again entered, bearing in his hand a
                     roll of parchment, which he handed to Ki, saying:
                  "I must now leave to visit the outposts; I am your obedient servant in the
                     meantime, Captain Lane, and hope to see you at headquarters to
                     morrow." He then left the room.
                  Ki slowly unrolled the parchment, it read thus:
                  BY GEORGE WASHINGTON, COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF OF THE ARMIES OF THE UNITED STATES.—In
                     virtue of the powers to me given by Congress, I do hereby appoint HEZEKIAH
                     LANE, Captain in the light infantry battalion; this commission to take rank
                     from the date hereof.
                  And I do also command that all inferior officers and privates render due
                     observance to his orders, in accordance with the rules and articles of war, as
                     directed by Congress, and that he also pay due observance to the orders of his
                     superior officers. Given under my hand and seal, at the city of New York, this
                     24th day of August, 1776.
                  GEORGE WASHINGTON.
                  By the Commander-in-Chief.
                  JOSEPH REED, Adjutant General.
                  Twice did Ki read the commission over, and twice he went to the window. The
                     last time he could only see the General and his escort far in the distance.
                  "My commission as Captain," he soliloquised, "very well, I will try to deserve
                     it. He is a good and a great man that signed it. May he remain at the head of
                     our armies till the great victory is accomplished, and our independence won.
                     May he never know defeat; if it comes, let the end be yet victory on his
                     banner. If he cannot, like Joshua, control the sun and moon, may he control the
                     sons of men, and lead them to victory, for the cause of his country."
                  There was in the character of Ki a portion of the feelings of the Scotch
                     Covenanters, who figured a hundred years before, in their contests with the
                     English at Bothwell Brigg, and other places. He possessed, however, no
                     fanaticism, but his love of liberty was ultra as the winds. An hour afterward
                     he had crossed the river, and was at his post on Long Island.
                  The evening of the 27th day of August was an important one upon Long Island. It
                     had become manifest that an attack was to be made on the American lines, and it
                     might take place within an hour. The troops lay on their arms, and apparently,
                     all was watchfulness on the American side.
                  The division of Americans which extended from the right of the lines in
                     Brooklyn was commanded by General William Alexander, commonly called Lord
                        Sterling.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *He was the son of a noted Scotch lawyer or barrister, who came to this
                        city at an early period of the last century. He endeavored to obtain the
                        extinct earldom of Lord Sterling, as a lineal descendant, but the
                        Scottish House of Peers threw out the claim. There was no doubt as to the
                        right.
                  
                  This division extended from the lines beyond Gowannus marsh, across the heights
                     bearing the same name, to the vicinity of Flatbush. The Maryland battalion,
                     under Miles, and the rifle regiment from Pennsylvania, under Atlee, formed the
                     advance guard, and rested on the crest of hills, part of which now form the
                     Greenwood Cemetery.
                  The division on the left was under the command of General John Sullivan, of New
                     Hampshire. This division was composed mostly of New England and New York
                     troops, and was not in numbers equal to the other.
                  The post which they held extended from the site of the present navy yard across
                     the heights of Fort Green, towards the Bedford and Jamaica roads. At that time
                     there was a range of woods running down to the low lands, through which the
                     roads came after they crossed the ridge of hills a few miles back.
                  The position held by Sullivan was an important one, more important, as results
                     afterward proved, than was generally supposed. In fact, it was the key by which
                     the enemy advanced on the night of the 27th, and the morning of the 28th, some
                     of the American scouts having deserted or left bare the road, on which there
                     should have been a general reconnoissance
                     throughout the night.
                  Putnam lay in the main camp, behind the redoubts thrown up on what was then a
                     peninsula of Brooklyn. His force amounted to something like nine thousand men,
                     all or nearly all militia. The lines were composed of merely bank
                     entrenchments, behind which were some small iron cannon, of no great calibre,
                     mounted on wooden platforms.
                  The fact is, we had no competent engineers, either for the laying out of forts,
                     or rendering entrenchments capable of defence. We had brave men, but no
                     scientific soldiers, educated in military schools.
                  We had no truly scientific engineers, men who had been educated in the schools
                     of Vauban, Turenne, and Frederick the Great. A peaceful people, the art of war,
                     as regarded fortifications, the management of artillery and mortars, were
                     hardly known to us at the breaking out of the revolution.
                  As skirmishers, riflemen and musketeers, our soldiers had no superiors.
                     Accustomed to the use of firearms from infancy—wood-rangers—they were superior
                     to any body of men, nay, to four times their number, that the world could
                     furnish on the same field of action. Where, in a skirmishing fight, could the
                     British attempt a conflict with the rifle regiment of Dan Morgan? They picked
                     down officers and men with the same precision they did the deer, on their own
                     native hills of Virginia. Saratoga and the Cowpens tell their story, and later
                     history, both in the Canadas and the bloodiest battle-grounds of Mexico, recite
                     the fame and enduring courage of American riflemen and musketeers.
                  On the evening of the 27th of August, 1776, two general officers, with a
                     portion of the staff of each, were seated round a table in a small house, which
                     the owner had left in consequence of the near approach of battle and war. The
                     house stood some ways down the Gowanus road, running from Brooklyn.
                  A large bowl of punch stood on the centre of the table; it was well flanked by
                     cold ham, beef and other eatables. At the head of the table was seated an
                     officer, whose face bore something of a rubicund look, but his manners were
                     such as denoted one who had moved in the best society. His figure was rather
                     short and portly, yet, in his movements, one would easily recognize the
                     gentleman. This personage was General Alexander, Lord Sterling.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Lord Sterling died of apoplexy, at Albany, just at the close of the war.
                        Possessing no great talent, he was faithful and honorable to the side he
                        espoused.
                  
                  Opposite him was seated another officer, whose uniform, of buff and blue, told
                     that he was the same rank as the person we have described. His countenance was
                     intellectual, we might say classical, his form tall, and the proportions, in
                     the language of the day, elegant. There was a frequent twitching of his upper
                     lip, a sign, generally, of quick anger and sensitiveness, when chafed. This
                        officer was General John
                     Sullivan, of New Hampshire.
                  Lord Sterling was a good liver, a bon vivant,
                     as modern phrase would say, rather too much so for his reputation. Yet, this
                     fault set aside, there was no braver or more honest man in the republic. He had
                     first been appointed a Colonel of one of the New Jersey regiments, from which
                     State or colony he entered the army; but his zeal, devotion, and the possible
                     sacrifice of a large fortune, in case the British succeeded, induced Congress
                     to promote him to the rank of a general officer.
                  Sullivan was a man of different calibre. A lawyer in his native State, and an
                     eloquent one, he remained firm on the side of the colonies, and took an early
                     stand in their favor. The high position which he held in New Hampshire, and his
                     popularity with all classes, caused his elevation to the rank he then held by
                     the appointment of the Continental Congress.
                  By his side sat a young officer, of remarkably prepossessing appearance, one of
                     his aids, Captain Alexander Scammell, who, after serving through all the perils
                     of the war, was killed at the closing scene at Yorktown, in Virginia, at
                     Cornwallis' surrender, being then Adjutant General of the army.
                  At the side of Lord Sterling was another young officer, who had been appointed
                     his aid. He was tall and slim, and his countenance more expressive of mildness
                     and benevolence, than firmness. A face denoting reason first, rather than an
                     appeal to brute force, except as a last resort. This was JAMES MONROE,
                     afterwards President of the United States.
                  Lord Sterling had filled his silver tankard from the punch bowl. This tankard
                     bore the arms of that earldom which he had strove in vain to make his own—a
                     token of vanity and aristocracy, that rather belonged to the name than the
                     man.
                  "Come, Sullivan," he said, "fill up—you do not appear to be in a drinking humor
                     to-night. Recollect that a battle is close at hand, be merry and warm now, for
                     we may both be cold to-morrow at this time."
                  "Very true, your lordship. I have been thinking since sitting here whether or
                     no some part of my duty has not been neglected. I have placed patrols on the
                     Bedford road, in addition to the guard—men well acquainted with the pass, at a
                     remuneration of fifty dollars per night. Yet still I feel uneasy—they do not
                     belong to the regulars, and may neglect their duty on this important occasion.
                     It is this that makes me thoughtful."
                  "Oh! nonsense. The enemy will hardly approach to-night, if our scouts speak the
                     truth, General. So let your mind be at ease on that score."
                  "I cannot avoid expressing a different opinion. It is true that the last
                     reports bring me no intelligence of the enemy's approach, yet for all that
                     there is an opportunity which they may avail themselves of to attack us. Our
                     outer posts are not manned sufficiently to defend themselves, much less to
                     guard against approach."
                  "But why do you doubt the faithfulness of your scouts and the guards you have
                     hired?"
                  "The position is, in a measure, somewhat dangerous, and the rumor is, that the
                     Hessians give no quarter, when they are victorious.*
                      These two things considered, it is not to be wondered at that I feel
                      somewhat nervous respecting the advance in the direction of my outposts."
                  
                     
                     *Such were the general impressions on the American side respecting the
                        Hessians. The Hessians, on the other side, had been told that the
                        Americans were savages
                  
                  "Pooh, pooh, Sullivan, fill up your tankard, and drink. There is no fear,
                     whatever. Come, gentlemen, dip into the bowl, and let's make a night of it.
                     There is nothing like punch on the eve of battle. It swells the soldier's
                     heart. Drink, boys, drink."
                  For some hours thus passed the night, until the hours began to glide into the
                     morning, when the sound of a horse's hoofs were distinctly heard, as if the
                     rider was speeding for life and death. Nearer came the sound, the horseman
                     sprang from his steed, inquiring, of the sentinel, loudly for General Sullivan.
                     In a moment after he entered the room, his dress covered with dust. The
                     personage was Captain Ki Lane.
                  Sullivan started from his chair the instant Ki entered, exclaiming,
                  "Well, quick, quick—has the enemy forced the lines?"
                  "No, but I have 
                        ascertaind
                        ascertained
                      that the Bedford pass has been left unguarded, and I am almost
                     positive that the division of Clinton and Cornwallis is advancing in that
                     direction."
                  "Curse the horsemen!" said Sullivan, vehemently. "Here, Mathews, saddle my
                     horse at once;" speaking to one of his servants.
                  "I took the responsibility," continued Ki, "of ordering a few men to scout the
                     road, and would have marched a regiment, but Colonel Graves refused, unless by
                     your express orders, and for that purpose I rode post haste."
                  "You have done right, Lane, perfectly right. I have had a presentiment that
                     something unfortunate would occur to-night, or rather morning. We will soon be
                     at quarters, when you shall take command of the advance party."
                  "This is news, indeed," said Lord Sterling, rising, after finishing his
                     tankard. "I must see to my division. Take a bowl, sir, before you leave," he
                     said, turning to Ki. "Come, Monroe, do the honors to this tall gentleman, while
                     I am absent for a moment."
                  Ki drank the bumper which was offered him by the aide-de-camp, and in a short
                     time after, Sullivan and himself, with a few horsemen, were rapidly on their
                     way to the quarters of the former.
                  The night, or morning, it should be called, was somewhat misty, but the moon
                     was seen through the haze of August, that denotes the approach of fall, and the
                     light was sufficient to show most things with distinctness. They had not
                     progressed far before the sound of musketry was heard on their right, at first
                     scattering, and then seeming to come from platoons, as if fired by regulars
                  "By G—d!" Sullivan did swear. "This is too bad—that firing, Lane,
                     is from the Bedford pass, which I took, as I supposed, every precaution to
                     guard. The blame will all fall on me, d—n the rascals," and he grated his teeth
                     in anger.
                  "Yes, sir, that firing is from the pass, and, I think, has been commenced by
                     the few men that I sent forward. I think, General, I had better turn up this
                     path, it leads to the road near the pass. I can then observe how things are
                     going on, and if necessary, return to you with the information."
                  "That's right—push on, Lane, and take half a dozen of the horsemen with you.
                     You can send one of them with the intelligence, as soon as you have ascertained
                     the position of the enemy's column. I will forward instantly the nearest
                     regiment, with orders to put certain companies under your command. I appoint
                     you Adjutant for the day, which will settle the question of rank and
                     orders."
                  Ki struck off the by-path as directed, followed by the men, putting their
                     horses to the utmost speed. Although the pass was some two miles off, the
                     firing of musketry was heard, now in rapid volleys, and then in straggling
                     shots, indicating that the skirmish at first commenced, would terminate in a
                     general engagement.
                  Approaching nearer, where the road led between hills on each side, the glare
                     from the firing was distinctly seen.
                  "Push on, boys," exclaimed Ki, animated by the scene; "although we are few in
                     numbers, we may do some good."
                  He had scarcely got these words from his mouth, when a turn in the road brought
                     him in contact with a party of his own men, in rapid retreat. Among them were
                     mingled a portion of Burnham's men, and his first inquiry was for him.
                  "He's a prisoner, I expect, sir," was the reply of the soldier addressed.
                  "A prisoner?"
                  "Yes, sir. Hearing the firing, the Major rode forward with the battalion, and,
                     after a sharp fight, in which we were surrounded by nearly ten times our
                     number, from appearance, half the command was captured, and most of the
                     officers who were in advance. It's useless, sir, for us to do anything, unless
                     there's reinforcements coming up."
                  "Never say useless at such times," was the instantaneous reply of Ki;
                     "reinforcements are on their way. Here, Sergeant, halt the runaways—the firing
                     is ceasing in front, and we shall soon be backed by a regiment. A defence made
                     here, may stay the enemy's progress for a length of time sufficient to get all
                     the divisions behind the trenches. Follow me, some half-dozen or more. Was
                     Major Burnham captured immediately in front?"
                  "Yes, sir, at the head of the few of us that remained. We had already kept the
                     advance of the British in check for half an hour."
                  "Then the party that took him have not likely sent him to the rear, and may
                     possibly release him, if we move on in time. Courage, courage—nothing like it,
                     boys, in an emergency."
                  The men, feeling their efforts revive by the sight of Ki, who was in every way
                     a favorite among them, immediately turned and followed him. The booming sounds
                     of two or three pieces of artillery were distinctly heard on the road, and, far
                     away towards Gowanus, the sharp crack of the rifles from the Maryland and
                     Pennsylvania regiments, attached to Lord Sterling's division, grew more and
                     more rapid.
                  As the party advanced, the signs of the conflict were more and more exciting.
                     Parties of men, bearing off their wounded comrades, were met on their way to
                     the rear, and everything indicated that the British were advancing in such
                     force that to check them was almost impossible.
                  A wounded prisoner from the British side, who was being taken to the rear among
                     the rest, attracted Ki's attention, and he proceeded to question him:
                  "What division do you belong to?"
                  "Sir Henry Clinton's," was the reply.
                  "Who is with him in command?"
                  "Lord Cornwallis, sir."
                  "Have they halted, or are they now advancing up the road?"
                  "When I was taken, they were coming up very fast, and will be here soon."
                  "Do you know how they became acquainted with this road, and that it was
                     undefended?"
                  "I can't tell exactly, sir, but I heard some of the horsemen deserted from your
                     side, and gave the account last night."
                  "What I expected. What number of troops has Sir Henry Clinton with him on this
                     road, do you think?"
                  "About four thousand, I should think, and on the other side, Generals Grant and
                     De Heister, with the Hessians, have nearly double."
                  "Where is Sir William Howe?"
                  "With the main body and reserve, at Flatland. They will march at daylight."
                  "How many men is there altogether in the army now landed on the island?"
                  "Well, sir, I can't tell, exactly, but not far from thirty thousand."
                  "So many?" ejaculated Ki, to himself. "Here, Sergeant, take this man to General
                     Sullivan's quarters as quick as possible, and tell him that if he will hurry on
                     a regiment or two, we may check the advance a great deal. Otherwise they will
                     attack both his division and that of Lord Sterling's in the rear, and both will
                     be cut off. Be as speedy as possible."
                  The Sergeant immediately departed on his errand with the prisoner, while Ki
                     pushed on. The day was slightly dawning, and the sun was giving warning of his
                     approach by a faint line in the east.
                  The sound of drums, fifes and bugles were heard from the camp of the English,
                     giving notice that portions of the army were falling into line, and that a
                     general officer had assumed command. Reaching the crest of the hill, Ki had a
                     good view before him. In the faint light of the moon, he could perceive a deep
                     red line, which marked the "form in column" of the flower of Britain's
                     soldiery.
                  Here and there was a camp-fire, around which parties of the troops were
                        partaking of an early breakfast—a
                     breakfast that was to be, to many of them, the last meal they should partake
                     of.
                  So confident was Sir Henry Clinton of his advance in the direction he had taken
                     without being discovered, that his subordinates had taken no precaution to
                     station sentinels in advance.
                  Ki rode steadily on, followed by a few of his men. Camp-fire after camp fire he
                     passed, until he reached at least half a mile within the enemy's lines. Now and
                     then some half-sleepy soldier would raise himself up and gaze upon the party,
                     with Ki at its head, as he passed along, and, grumbling a little, fall to sleep
                     again, for the drum of his regiment had not beat reveille.
                  We have heretofore given a sufficient sketch of Ki, that all might appreciate
                     his character. Fear formed no part of his composition, and, as he advanced
                     towards the open jaws of the lion, the natural courage of his heart grew
                     stronger and stronger.
                  Thus he went on, until a sudden cry from a sentinel, which was echoed by
                     another, followed by the click of the hammer of a musket, with the words from
                     the sentry:
                  "Who goes there?"
                  "Friends to the right."
                  "Halt, then, friends to the right, until I pass word to the officer of the
                     guard."
                  In the meanwhile, Ki, after calling his little party of a half dozen
                     ill-dressed and ill-accoutred horsemen around him, to whom, in a low tone, he
                     communicated their situations, with the fact that death or imprisonment awaited
                     them all, unless they remained firm to each other, bade them remain firm to the
                     good cause. There was no blanching of cheek, or sign of cowardice, when Ki
                     spoke to his men.
                  An officer, richly dressed, his scarlet uniform faced with green, denoting an
                     officer of the twenty-ninth, quickly approached the party of Americans,
                     accompanied by a file of men.
                  "Where are you from?" was his first inquiry.
                  "From the out-posts," was the immediate answer of Ki.
                  "I do not recognise you—are you loyalists?"
                  "Ever loyal to that side to which our services belong."
                  "Oh! you are king's men. But to what corps do you belong?"
                  "You have heard," said Ki, with much emphasis, "that Colonel De Lancey is
                     forming a regiment of refugees—is he not here?"
                  "No, left to-day for Staten Island; but if you belong to his corps, or the
                     regiment he is raising, why your services will be very valuable, particularly
                     at this moment."
                  "Then I am to understand that Colonel De Lancey is not on Long Island?"
                  "No, as I told you before. He has gone over to Staten Island to finish the
                     recruiting for his regiment. How many men have you with you?"
                  "Not many," replied Ki, "I wish I had more with me, but its very hard to get
                     recruits now, on the king's side. What has got into the Americans, I can't
                     tell, but all of them seem inclined to independence. Why, you would hardly
                     believe that not a man I bring over to De Lancey but has cost a joe bounty,
                     with a promise of half the confiscated property of all the rebels they
                     kill."
                  "A hard bargain on the king's side, indeed," replied the officer. "Is the side
                     of his gracious Majesty so unpopular then in this colony?"
                  "Very unpopular, indeed."
                  "But I am told otherwise by well informed men, and you must be mistaken," said
                     the officer, with some warmth.
                  "Not mistaken at all, sir; I beg your pardon, I cannot call you by name."
                  "Major Strangeways, I am a brother to the Earl of Ilchester."
                  "What I have said is true, Major Strangeways. Recruiting among the Americans
                     for the royal side, is very slow indeed. The royal side, to the misfortune of
                     the king may it be said, is very unpopular."
                  "Truly so. But in a few months, or in one campaign, the whole thing will be
                     over. How nonsensical for these people to undertake rebellion against his
                     majesty's choicest forces!" and he laughed heartily.
                  Ki laughed heartily in return, but the laugh was an ironical one.
                  "Come," said the officer, "you had better halt your men, and I will conduct you
                     to Sir Henry Clinton's quarters. You may give him some important information as
                     to the situation of the rebels, for the general attack is to be made by, or
                     soon after, daylight—our division having already secured the pass to Brooklyn,
                     otherwise we should have had some trouble."
                  "Let my men remain as they are," said Ki, "with your permission. Probably Sir
                     Henry will not wish to hold conversation but a moment. "Halt, men!" he
                     exclaimed significantly, "I have got to wait upon the commanding General."
                  The British officer silently acquiesced in the decision of Ki, and his small
                     party of men drew up by the roadside to await his return. Ki, having
                     dismounted, followed Major Strangeways to the head-quarters of the British
                     General.
                  As they approached the house, it was easy to perceive that a great deal of
                     business, such as usually follows the quarters of a camp, was transacting
                     within. Officers were moving hither and thither, orderlies were mounting and
                     dismounting, to bring or carry intelligence from different points.
                  As they neared the house, they were challenged repeatedly by the numerous
                     sentinels stationed around, and shortly Ki stood in the presence of Sir Henry
                     Clinton himself, whom he at once recognized, having seen him in Boston.
                  "Who have we hear, Major Strangeways?" said Sir Henry, looking up from a large
                     map on the table, which he had been examining with several other officers.
                  "A friend to our cause, he says, attached to a new corps raising for the king's
                     side—De Lancey's dragoons."
                  It is well to state that Ki wore over his uniform an old blue overcoat, (the
                     night having been somewhat damp) which prevented exposure.
                  "I have heard that a Mr. De Lancey was raising some horsemen. Are you
                     acquainted with this part of the country?"
                  "Very well, sir," answered Ki, his eye resting on the map before Sir Henry.
                  "What road is this we are now upon? Is it the Bradford or Radford road?"
                  "It is called the Bedford road," said Ki.
                  "Aye, that's it, the Bedford Road. Do you know whether the enemy are in much
                     force beyond this point?"
                  This was a question Ki had wished to be asked, for he hoped, by his answer, to
                     keep Sir Heary from advancing until the Americans had time to dispute him in
                     force.
                  "When I left the lines, and I had to take bye paths to escape through the range
                     of sentries, it appeared to me, sir, they were coming up in great force."
                  "Why, those rascally deserters must have lied terribly, Cornwallis," he said,
                     turning to a somewhat portly middle-aged man. The same who five years after, at
                     Yorktown, surrendered to the united armies of Washington and Rochambeau.
                  "There is a mistake somewheres, Sir Henry, for we have been told that the pass
                     was left unguarded, by any force of moment, and certainly it has seemed so thus
                     far. Perhaps some of the prisoners taken should be examined, we may then get at
                     the right."
                  "Very true—there was an officer, with a number of men, taken a short time
                     since. Ho, there! bring in the rebel officer."
                  Now this, for safety, to Ki looked somewhat desperate. He knew that there was
                     scarcely an officer in the American army that did not know him, and if he was
                     recognized it would go hard with him. Sir Henry Clinton again accosted him.
                  "These range of hills, are they called Gowanus heights?" he asked Ki, against
                     pointing to the map.
                  "Yes, sir, and they are very strongly fortified. A large body of troopers,
                     sharp shooters, occupy the woods."
                  "Does Putnam command them?"
                  'No, sir, General Lord Sterling."
                  "Lord Trash," said Sir Henry, with a sneer, "a lord of his own creation, I
                     suppose, since it has never been recognized by any one but himself," he was
                     going on still further, when an officer entered, saying:
                  "The prisoner, sir."
                  Ki involuntarily turned and faced the man who entered; there was not even a
                     change of muscle in his face, surprised as he was, when his eyes met those of
                     Burnham.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIV.
                  If the countenance of Ki continued unmoved, that of Burnham was not so. He knew
                     now how to regard Lane, whether as a prisoner, spy, or acting under a flag of
                     truce. Before he had time to salute Ki, the latter, with perfect, coolness,
                     said, turning to Sir Henry Clinton.
                  "The prisoner is Major Burnham, sir, a man of veracity, and it's a pity he's on
                     the rebel side. I've done all I could to persuade him to leave the other party,
                     and return to his loyalty, but he's like a mule in the matter, and won't budge
                     an inch."
                  These remarks were sufficient to put Burnham on his guard, although there was
                     still some mystery to him in the matter.
                  "Young man," said Clinton, to Burnham, "it is not yet too late to do right.
                     Abandon a cause where nothing but defeat, and, possibly, the gallows, await all
                     that rebel against their king."
                  "Have I the honor to listen to Sir Henry Clinton?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Then Sir Henry is too much of a gentleman to request a prisoner to break his
                     oath."
                  "What oath?"
                  "The oath which I took to support my country and its representatives, the
                     Continental Congress, when I received my commission."
                  "The Continental Congress has no right to require such oaths. They are rebels
                     to their king, and will be hung, one and all, if they do not return to their
                     allegiance."
                  "I am willing to suffer in the same way, sir, if my humble acts should be
                     deemed of sufficient consequence to have me perish with them."
                  "Stuff, stuff—be a man, a loyal one. You shall have a commission in the new
                     levies, with the same rank you now hold. Will not that be better than marching
                     round the country at the head of a parcel of shoeless and shirtless
                     vagabonds?"
                  "It seems to me, Sir Henry, that his majesty's generals take great precautions,
                     when they prepare to attack these same shoeless, shirtless vagabonds."
                  "You are sarcastic, sir."
                  "Sir Henry has a mind to be witty upon my poor words."
                  "I am sorry to see a young man of your appearance, sir, rushing wildly into the
                     very jaws of destruction."
                  "A few years will tell the story which side meets destruction."
                  "Do you know, sir, how many troops his majesty now has on this island?"
                  "No, Sir Henry, not with exactness"
                  "Near upon thirty thousand, the flower of the armies of Europe, commanded by
                     veteran officers, who have served at Minden and the campaigns of Germany. How
                     can such forces be resisted?"
                  "By the arms of a bold and hardy people, and the aid of the God of battles, who
                     has thus far befriended them!"
                  "Amen!" exclaimed a voice, in solemn tones, and all eyes were turned upon Ki
                     Lane, for it proceeded from him. Clinton looked with a wondering eye,
                     Cornwallis half smiled, half frowned, and Burnham was still more mystified than
                     before.
                  "Amen!" continued Ki, "when Absalom rebelled against his kingly father, he was
                     caught up by the hair, and perished beneath the javelin of Joab, directed by
                     the God of battles."
                  
                  "My friend," said Clinton to Ki, mildly, "are the soldiers of De Lancey's corp
                     members of conventicles?"
                  "I was merely, your Excellency, drawing a parallel in this rebellion," answered
                     Ki, turning off his first unpremeditated outbreak, "that deluded young man
                        understands what I mean."
                  "Perfectly, Mr. Loyalist," was the reply of Burnham,
                     emphatically.
                  "Understand it then, young man, and join the right side," said Clinton.
                  "If Sir Henry Clinton has sent for me to turn traitor to my native land, this
                     conversation has lasted long enough!" exclaimed Burnham, in a proud tone. "I am
                     a prisoner, but I expect my rights respected for all that."
                  "Well spoken, my young friend, well spoken," answered Sir Henry, in a pleasant
                     tone, "you have a right to ask as much. The chief reason I have sent for you is
                     to ask of you the position of certain roads as laid down on this map. My
                     information is, I believe, already accurate, but I would like to be certain.
                     You know your rights, and, as a matter of course, can answer or not at your
                     pleasure."
                  "Sir," said Burnham, advancing, "I have no objection to answer all questions
                     that will not compromise my country. As to the position of the roads, and their
                     correctness, I will tell after looking at the map."
                  A glance was exchanged between Burnham and Ki, as the former went up to the
                     table.
                  "Is this the Bedford road?" asked Clinton.
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "And it runs across those hills which stretch along the upper portion of the
                     island?"
                  "Yes, sir, a pass, I believe, well-guarded, and, if I am not mistaken,
                     well-manned, by this time, with artillery and infantry."
                  Clinton and Cornwallis now exchanged glances in turn.
                  "What reason have you for supposing this pass to be well-guarded?" said
                     Cornwallis to Burnham.
                  "I know that orders were given, before I was taken prisoner, to dispatch a
                     brigade for that purpose."
                  "Suppose our troops already occupy that pass?"
                  "Then there is no need of asking me any further questions, because, if such be
                     the fact, you know better than, I my lord."
                  Cornwallis, after this answer, ceased his questioning, and, turning to Clinton,
                     they exchanged a few words in a low tone, when the former left the
                     apartment.
                  "Is Mr. Washington on the island?"
                  "General Washington, sir, the last account I had, was in New
                     York."
                  "Putnam, then, is sole commander?"
                  "Yes, sir—aided by Generals Lord Sterling and Sullivan."
                  "You can withdraw the prisoner, sir," said Clinton, turning to the officer who
                     had escorted him in; "I will send him to the Commander-in-Chief, Sir William
                     Howe, who is now at Gravesend or New Utrecht."
                  Burnham left the apartment in charge of the officer, as directed, not, however,
                     without exchanging looks with Ki.
                  Sir Henry Clinton sat down at the table and wrote a short note, which, having
                     sealed, he rose and said to Ki:
                  "As you are a friend of the king's, and know the country well, I shall put this
                     Major, what d'ye call him?"
                  "Burnham, sir."
                  "This Major Burnham under your charge, for the purpose of taking him to Sir
                     William Howe, together with this note. Major Strangeways will give you the
                     countersign to pass the division of General Grant, on the road. After
                     delivering this note to General Howe, with the prisoner, you will at once
                     return to me with his answer. Spare no horseflesh, and your remuneration will
                     be ample."
                  "Sir, my return, you need have no doubt, will be quick."
                  The meaning of Ki's "return," and to what side, can be imagined. He left the
                     quarters of Sir Henry Clinton with a lighter heart than when he entered. On the
                     porch of the house he met Major Strangeways,*
                        who delivered Burnham into his hands, with the proper countersign.
                  
                     
                     *Major Strangeways was a son of the Earl of Ilchester. He died in England
                        a few years ago.
                  
                  "In the name of wonder, Ki, what does all this mean?" said Burnham, as they
                     neared their horses, followed by the small escort on the road, leading from the
                     plains to Gravesend and the quarters of Sir William Howe.
                  "Hush! Harry, my neck is near a noose if we should be overheard. I have come
                     into the enemy's camp a little bolder than I intended. I did it to rescue you.
                     The men with me are faithful, but see how we are surrounded. Let us push on
                     boldly for a while—there is a bye-path across the hills, which will lead us to
                     Sullivan's camp, a mile or two beyond. Fall in the rear, for the safety of us
                     both."
                  Burnham slackened his bridle-rein, and fell in the rear, covered by two files,
                     to prevent his escape, seemingly. On went the party, passing, now and then,
                     patrols, and large portions of the enemy, with artillery, rapidly advancing in
                     the line of Sir Henry's column.
                  "Who goes there?" was a frequent challenge, but Ki's countersign passed the
                     party along without difficulty for quite a distance.
                  Getting further into the flat road, which has, undoubtedly, given the name of
                     Flatlands to that portion of Long Island comprehended in the names of Flatbush,
                     Flatlands and New Utrecht, Ki dropped in the rear, where Burnham was guarded.
                     He rode up to him and said:
                  "From all that I have questioned, General Grant's head-quarters are close by.
                     There is a small path, which leads in the direction of Sterling's position. At
                     a signal, which I will give by letting my cap drop, put your horse to the
                     utmost speed, and dash up this narrow road. I will follow, as if in pursuit
                     None but our party will pursue, and, I think, there is no danger but all of us
                     can reach the lines in safety. You understand me?"
                  "I do, Ki," said Burnham.
                  Day, by this time, had fully broke, for the sun was sending its rays of light
                     over hill and valley, and, as they glanced upon the well-equipped equipped and
                     well-disciplined troops of the English line, both Burnham and Ki uttered words
                     of admiration.
                  "This looks like an army, Ki, such as you and I have dreamed
                     of—when can the poor colonies equal them?"
                  "True, Major, but we've got one thing—it lies here," and Ki struck his heart
                     with force. "We haven't a chance to furnish an army in such a way, but the
                     courage, perseverance and determination rest on our side. Don't you think
                     so?"
                  "Yes," replied Burnham, "well do I know it. We have been brother soldiers
                     together for a long time, Ki, and poor indeed is our judgment if we cannot
                     calculate upon the final results. As to Britain, let her send her best
                     soldiers, we can meet them on any field in equal conflict."
                  It was this spirit that nerved the American arms during the revolution—a spirit
                     that nothing could break or destroy during the eight years' war, of the only
                     true republic that arose from the conflict of arms, which the world has ever
                     witnessed.
                  Suddenly, orders were given to halt, by a sentry in advance—a sentry of the
                     horse patrol, wearing the British uniform. A portion of a regiment of horse,
                     drawn mostly from Cork, the last port whence sundry detachments of the British
                     troops had embarked, and were acting as videttes.
                  Ki rode forward with instant decision
                  "Who cries halt?"
                  "I do," was the reply of the Cornet who led the party.
                  "Is General Grant in command?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Lead me to his quarters, then, if you please."
                  "Not till you give the countersign, my friend."
                  "Oh! yes, I forgot. Halt, men, while I confer with the officer that is
                     stationed here."
                  "Halt, all where you are," said the British officer.
                  Ki rode forward and replied in a few brief words to the officer.
                  "I want the countersign," was the answer of the British Cornet.
                  It must now be told why Ki was so anxious to detain his men. The bye-path led
                     across the hills only a short distance off, by which he hoped to escape, with
                     his party and Burnham. It therefore became necessary that he should look about
                     a little before attempting the dangerous enterprise.
                  "How far off are General Grant's quarters?" inquired Ki.
                  "You see those range of low buildings yonder?"*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Still standing on the Flatbush road.
                  
                  "I do."
                  "General Grant is there now, but in a few moments, both himself and Knyphausen
                     will be on their march. I ask you again for the countersign. Advance,
                     troop"
                  A patrol, consisting of some twenty dragoons, obeyed his order.
                  "The King," said Ki, calmly, "that, I believe, is the countersign,
                     if Major Strangeways, Sir Henry Clinton's aide-de-camp, told me correctly."
                  "Right, sir," answered the Cornet, "my orders are most strict, and at this
                     crisis, duty is duty."
                  "Very true, follow me up, men," said Ki.
                  "You wish to see Colonel Grant?"
                  "Most certainly; I have a prisoner here I am leading to Sir William Howe."
                  "Oh! excuse me, but if you had said this at first, much difficulty would have
                     been avoided."
                  The Cornet then directed two of his men to lead the party to General Grant's
                     quarters.
                  "Harry," said Ki to Burnham, "I am very hungry, and I think you are the same.
                     This must be about the time General Grant is taking his breakfast, and he can't
                     do less than invite us to his table when I show him that I carry dispatches to
                     Sir William Howe, the Commander-in-chief."
                  On went the party to the mansion where Gen. Grant, in company with
                        Knyphausen,*
                      commander of the Hessians, were about to partake of an early morning's
                     meal. They halted, until the Sergeant returned with the message transmitted by
                     his commander.
                        
                        *American historians have been very apt to confound all the auxiliaries of
                           the British army in America as Hessians. This is wrong—Knyphausen and Dr.
                           Heister commanded the Hessians. The Brunswickers were from the Dutchy of
                           Brunswick, and came with Burgovne. Their commander was Baron De
                           Reidsel.
                     
                  General Grant, who was one of the most shrewd and soldier-like of the
                     commanding British generals, rose from his seat, and came himself to the door,
                     gazing upon Ki, Burnham and the party.
                  "Have you, sir, a pass through the lines," he said to Ki, after a close
                     scrutiny.
                  "Nothing more than this, sir," was the reply of Ki, as he took from his cap the
                     sealed note of Sir Henry Clinton to Sir William Howe—"beside the countersign
                     which has passed my party thus far."
                  "This appears to be right," said General Grant, examining the note closely.
                     "Sir Henry's writing, and sealed on the outside with his arms. Suppose you
                     alight, and take breakfast with me."
                  "With all my heart," answered Ki, "for I have eaten nothing since last
                     night."
                  As he dismounted, he carelessly rode up to Burnham and said:
                  "Mount my horse, Thunder—you know him well—and make your escape up that path—it
                     leads to Sullivan's advance. I will follow, with my men, in pursuit; the trick
                     will not be seen through until too late."
                  Ki was approaching General Grant, when Burnham sprang on the saddle of Ki's
                     horse—waving his hand, and striking his spurs, away he went.
                  "See to your prisoner! see to your prisoner!" shouted General Grant.
                  "Never fear, sir, he cannot get far. Follow me, men, at full speed," said Ki to
                     his party, as he flung himself upon Burnham's jaded nag. "We shall have him in
                     five minutes, General—the rebel rascal will be under our charge in that
                     time."
                  
                  It is true that Ki and his party were in full pursuit (but as
                        friends) at once. The English General knew nothing of this, and
                     he quietly returned to his breakfast, directing a seat to be reserved for the
                     "tall Yankee," as he called Ki, on his return with the rebel prisoner.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXV.
                  Burnham struck up the path directed by Ki, and the noble animal dashed on at
                     full speed. Looking back once or twice, he saw Ki and his party rapidly
                     approaching, but it was yet too soon for him to slack his pace.
                  The narrow road was somewhat crooked, and on turning an angle that hid from
                     view the approach of Ki, he saw, not a great distance off, a small party of
                     British dragoons advancing directly towards him. Here was a dilemma. The
                     dragoons had perceived him; to return would only endanger the safety of Ki and
                     his party, and to advance was a certainty of being made a prisoner. Giving his
                     horse the spur, he turned and leaped a small fence that skirted a thicket of
                     underbrush and forest trees.
                  The dragoons, who had got very near, commenced shouting a "prisoner," "a
                     prisoner," and the leader of the party directed most of them to dismount and
                     strike into the woods in pursuit of Burnham. When this was done he was left
                     with only three or four men.
                  It was not long before Ki with his men reached the spot, and the following
                     conversation ensued between him and the officer, who, by spreading his men
                     across the road, endeavored to make as good a front as possible, not knowing
                     whether Ki was friend or foe.
                  "Has a mounted rebel officer passed this way?" said Ki, hastily.
                  "Some one, I don't know who, has dashed into the woods yonder, and my men are
                     now in pursuit."
                  "How many men have gone in pursuit?"
                  "About twenty. I am a Cornet in Harcourt's light dragoons. We landed but
                     yesterday, and are giving our horses a little exercise."
                  "Well, Cornet, your exercise will be short this time. You are my prisoner,
                     sir," saying this he laid his hand upon the bridle of the officer's horse.
                     "Men, secure the other prisoners."
                  The young Cornet was so taken by surprise that he had barely time to place his
                     hand upon his sword, without the power of drawing it, and say,
                  "You forget my party is far your superior in numbers, and your are surrounded
                     by our troops."
                  "You are my prisoner for all that," said Ki. Here, Jones, take this officer and
                     his men at once along this road to Sullivan's advance. Stay, one moment, we
                     will out the bridles of these horses belonging to the absent dragoons, and you
                     can drive them ahead. I know that our army lack horses, and these of pure
                     English breed will come just in time."
                  The soldier he spoke to, with three men, filed off, and the unfortunate British
                     dragoon officer, with the few men he had left, had no alternative but to obey
                     the commands of his capturer, and proceed on his journey to Sullivan's camp as
                     a prisoner.
                  "Now, men," said Ki, to the few remaining soldiers left with him, "we must be
                     cautious. The dragoons are in search of Major Burnham. Their horses are gone,
                     and they most likely have nothing with them but their broad-swords, and,
                     perhaps, now and then, a pistol. If we act right, we can take the whole party
                     prisoners. Pretend to be on their side until I give the signal, if we succeed
                     in getting them together. Part of you remain here on the look-out, the balance
                     follow me into the woods."
                  Dividing the few left, Ki entered the woods, still on horseback, as were those
                     that followed him—a mode English soldiers were not accustomed to.
                  We must now return to Burnham. When he darted over the fence on Ki's horse—a
                     noble animal, by-the-bye, that knew his master with the docility of a dog—he
                     lit upon a small path, that extended into the woods a short distance.
                  Following this path, Burnham was startled by the sound of voices, and checked
                     his steed as far as possible, but not sufficiently so until he found himself in
                     the presence of a small camp company of the hangers on of all armies—men, women
                     and children—busily engaged in preparing breakfast. Around this group, a
                     portion of soldiers were assembled, and sentinels were seen, here and there,
                     marching backwards and forwards, as if under regular discipline.
                  Such was the fact. An advance post of the Buffs had been unexpectedly detailed
                     in the position occupied, and, without being aware of his situation, Burnham
                     found himself in the midst of his enemies.
                  The steed of Ki, that he had mounted, seemed almost aware of the position in
                     which he had brought his rider, for he stopped instantly, and turned his head
                     towards Burnham.
                  "We must make the best of it," said Burnham, as if speaking to a reasonable
                     being, instead of his horse, "we must make the best of it, my nag, now let us
                     do what we can." The horse pricked up his cars, opened his eyes, and went
                     forward with his rider up to the very place where the camp women were cooking
                     the breakfast for officers, mess and squadron, with rapid determination.
                  "Halt!" said a sentinel.
                  "I wish to see your commander," was Burnham's reply.
                  "Sergeant of the guard," said the sentinel, "here is a man on horseback who
                     wishes to see Major Baird."
                  "Then keep him there until I find the Major," was the reply.
                  The man departed on his errand, while Burnham remained before the sentinel,
                     awaiting the orders of the commander of the detachment.
                  At times, the sounds of the fifes and drums of the English troops, advancing
                     across the roads and over the heights of the ridge that guarded the American
                     rear, was distinctly heard by Burnham. Then again the deep bass drums of the
                     Hessian auxiliaries came sounding up the hill, indicating very plainly that the
                     British troops were on the advance, and it became necessary, if possible, that
                     both Sterling and Sullivan should be on the watch.
                  "There is no use, sentinel," Burnham said, "that I should wait longer, my
                     orders from General Clinton were to direct Colonel Baird of the 71st, to remain
                     in this position until further orders. I hear firing, and it is necessary that
                     I leave at once."
                  "You can't leave, sir," said the sentinel, "without having Colonel Baird's
                     permission," cocking his musket and presenting it at the same time.
                  "I WILL leave," was the instantaneous reply of Burnham.
                  He gave his bridle rein a twist, and the faithful steed was obedient at once.
                     The sentinel fired his musket, and the ball struck the flank of the charger,
                     yet, with his rider, on he pressed, determined, it would seem, to do his duty,
                     come what might. Away they go. The frequent sound of the discharges from the
                     muskets of the sentry, seemed only to nerve the gallant animal the more, and
                     through the woods they dashed, as if old acquaintances of the path pursued.
                  Now and then some of the dismounted dragoons, belonging to the party of the
                     officer who had been captured by Ki, made their appearance, but as yet little
                     acquainted with warfare in the woods, endeavored to arrest the horse and rider
                     in vain. Now and then they would discharge a pistol or raise a broadsword, but
                     invariably without effect—they were yet on their "sea legs," and "bush
                     fighting" was somewhat new.
                  The rattling of musketry and the roar of artillery now began to sound along the
                     valleys and upon the hills, as if the conflict had in reality begun. Anxious to
                     reach his position on the heights, on he pressed. Once or twice a straggler
                     crossed his path, with gun in hand, but they seemed too eager to escape to
                     interfere or stop his progress.
                  In the course of half an hour he succeeded in reaching the outposts of
                     Sullivan's camp, from whence he could laugh at his pursuers. The sentinels of
                     Sullivan's command were stationed across that portion of the country (and
                     supposed to occupy the heights) beyond the Jamaica road, including all the
                     dangerous passes. Here was the great failure. At this late day it is useless to
                     enter into reasons why such and such matters were not differently acted upon.
                     Leaders and officers were alike to blame.
                  The first inquiry that Burnham made was after Ki, but he could not find that he
                     had been seen or heard from. His own manœuvre of escape had occupied his
                     attention too much, particularly after his forest adventure, to notice what
                     might have become of those who were his pursuers yet protectors.
                  He knew full well the shrewdness of Ki, and had no doubt of his escape with his
                     party, yet still, the fact that if danger arose it came simply from the truth
                     of his own captivity and rescue, in effecting which Ki ventured his own liberty
                     and that of his companions to accomplish.
                  These feelings induced Burnham to apply to Putnam for a select corps, whose
                     duty it should be to watch every movement of the enemy on Long Island during
                     the day. If the results were friendly to the American side, then the corps to
                     continue in service, if not, the quicker it was disbanded the better for all
                     sides.
                  Let us now return to Ki a little while. He advanced with the few men under him
                     into the woods. At different points he met with some of the dragoons who were
                     in search of Burnham, but, as they knew little or nothing of the ground, and
                     being little accustomed to such pursuits in the woods, they put themselves
                     under his directions, on his stating that, like them, he was in pursuit of the
                     fugitive.
                  In this way, in a short time, he got the whole party together, and leading them
                     on, step by step, towards the advance lines of the Americans, he drew them, as
                     he well knew, within the range of their patrols. A Sergeant of the British
                     party at length got suspicious.
                  "I don't understand," he said, in bluff John Bull style, "the road you are
                     leading us on, if you call this a road, over swamps, through woods and briars.
                     Our Cornet will be looking for us."
                  "I'm Captain, Cornet and leading officer now," was the brief reply of Ki, "and
                     you'll obey my orders."
                  "Obey your orders?" answered the Sergeant Major, significantly,
                     and halting with true military precision.
                  "Yes, my orders," replied Ki
                  "I'll see you d—d first!" answered the British soldier, with the sturdiness of
                     his countrymen. "Halt, men, we are getting into an ambush."
                  He drew his broadsword as he spoke, and a number of his men gathered around
                     him, likewise unsheathing their swords, some of them drawing pistols, and
                     looking daggers at Ki and his small party.
                  "You see," said the non-commissioned officer to Ki, "you are in my power; if
                     you are a king's man, take us at once to the road where we left our horses and
                     leader, or you may find that tampering with us is dangerous."
                  "Be not so sure, my bluff friend, that you are not my prisoner now, with all
                     your companions," said Ki.
                  "Your prisoners?"
                  "Yes, understand my meaning fully."
                  "We will see about that," said the Sergeant, a bold-hearted, fine-built
                     specimen of an Englishman, "be on your guard, men, we are without horses, but
                     file to the front."
                  "Look behind and around you," said Ki, calmly.
                  The near roll of a drum caused the British Sergeant Major of Horse to turn
                     indeed—there was no chance for an escape, nor even for fighting with any
                     thought of success. A large body of Americans were in front, rear and flank,
                     being the advance of Sullivan's division. The bewildered Sergeant, taken by
                        surprise, cast a half-angry,
                     half-piteous look at Ki, and said, grating his teeth:
                  "Who are you?"
                  "A Captain in the Continental service," was the answer.
                  "You are the devil, I believe, but I surrender, I surrender. It is a hard thing
                     that Sam Bradford, Sergeant Major in Harcourt's horse, should be cut off the
                     second day of his landing. All for getting into woods with paths leading Old
                     Nick knows where."
                  "Don't blame yourself so much, Sergeant. You were only obeying the orders of
                     your superior officer. Will it gratify you to see that he is also a prisoner at
                     this time?"
                  "Gratify me," said the Sergeant, eagerly, "I'd be confined till the war is over
                     to know if that was true."
                  "Then, be contented, my brave fellow, yonder he is. You can see his scarlet
                     uniform, just between those trees. He is dismounting and under guard."
                  "Thank Heaven! there he is!" shouted the Sergeant. "Boys, we have not been
                     caught in the trap alone," she said to his men, "see, there is the Cornet, a
                     prisoner."
                  The Cornet had been conducted, with the horses taken, to the outposts, as
                     directed by Ki, and was now about to be sent into the lines at Brooklyn. The
                     particular reason why the Sergeant felt gratified at the capture of his
                     superior officer, arose from the fact of the Cornet's unpopularity, and the
                     dislike which his men had to obey the order when they were directed to enter
                     the woods.
                  The meeting between the parties was not very cordial.
                  "Why, Sergeant! how came you, with so large a portion of the men, captured? You
                     were within our lines," said the Cornet.
                  "Because we were sent upon a foolish errand," replied the Sergeant, with
                     boldness. "What could I or my men know about the roads and paths through a
                     forest we never saw before. I've done my duty and obeyed orders, sir, so I have
                     nothing to answer for."
                  The Cornet made no reply aloud, but muttered to himself "insolence," and at the
                     head of his small party, with a suitable guard, he was soon on his way to
                     Brooklyn, filled with mortification.
                  Other things now began to engross the attention of the American leaders. The
                     repeated firing of artillery, as well as small arms, and the driving in of
                     detached parties of the Continentals were conclusive proofs that the English
                     advance was in full force. Along the wooded heights of Gowannus, the sharp
                     crack of the Delaware and Maryland rifles were distinctly heard, for, upon that
                     position, Grant's division was known to be advancing.
                  The division under Clinton and Cornwallis, was advancing in another direction,
                     and there appeared to be little concert on the part of the American generals of
                     divisions for simultaneous action.
                  The sickness of Greene, who was better acquainted with the ground, and the
                     appointment of Putnam to his place, made, probably, a different disposition of
                     the troops, than would have otherwise occurred. To be added to this, must be
                     taken into consideration the little knowledge most of our general officers of
                     that day had of actual service.
                  Sir William Howe, Commander-in-Chief of the British forces, was a good
                     executive officer, but, perhaps, no great tactician. Clinton and Cornwallis
                     were both better general officers on the field, Cornwallis, in particular.
                  There was a jealousy between Clinton and Sir William Howe, and, most likely,
                     this jealousy caused the latter officer to pay but little attention to the
                     advice of Sir Henry Clinton. The jealousies of superior officers, when engaged
                     in campaigns, are of more value than armies to opposing forces.
                  Our historians have scarcely alluded to this fact, of difficulty among the
                     leaders of the British troops. Sir William Howe was recalled by Lord George
                     Germaine, in 1778, solely from this cause, although, perhaps, Sir William Howe
                     was more popular than Sir Henry Clinton, in the army.
                  Indeed, to such a pitch did this feeling exist between the Commander-in-Chief
                     of the British army and his second in command, at one period, that the only
                        etiquette that existed between them, was
                     such as their rank and relative position made necessary between them.
                  Glad we are to say it, for it is, doubtless, true, this dispute occasioned the
                     saving of the larger portion of the American army, on its famous retreat from
                     Long Island, under the masterly command of Washington, on the night of the 30th
                     of August, 1776. But we finish this chapter to give in our next the battle of
                     Long Island.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVI.
                  BATTLE OF LONG ISLAND.
                  The British General, by nine o'clock in the morning, had gained such
                     advantages, that the advanced corps of the Americans were gradually driven in,
                     with the exception of the Marylanders, Delaware and Pennsylvania rifle
                     battalions, who still occupied and manfully stood their ground on the woody
                     range of Gowanus Heights.
                  Dr Heister led the advance column with his Hessians, while Grant, with his
                     division, flanked off by the Narrows road. Toiling up the hill, the Hessians,
                     little used to such kind of fighting, were received with anything but a kindly
                     welcome from the riflemen, and several times they were driven from out the
                     woods into the plains. At the close of the day, when the battle was over, it
                     was found that the Hessians had suffered more, in proportion to their numbers,
                     than any other division of the invading army.
                  Bought at a bounty of five pounds per man, the British leaders never failed to
                     place the Hessians in the most dangerous portions of battles, during the first
                     campaigns of the revolution. After a while, however, these hired mercenaries
                     found that the Americans, instead of being savages, received them as friends
                     when they came over to their side, and they also found many that spoke the same
                     language, natives of the soil, whose ancestors emigrated from the Palatinates
                     of Germany during the reign of Queen Anne of England. In fact, they were driven
                     from the provinces along the Rhine, by the orders of Louis, XIV., on account of
                     their Protestantism, ere the victorious star of Le
                        Grand Monarque paled behind the rapid conquests of Marlborough and
                     Prince Eugene, in Flanders and along the borders of France.
                  The Hessians and Brunswickers, in the end, were of more injury than benefit to
                     the arms of England. Not but that they were brave and fought well, but they
                     gradually became weaned from the British side, when they found that justice was
                     on the side of the people of the colonies. At Long Island and the storming of
                     Fort Washington they fought remarkably well, and, though unfortunate at Trenton
                     and Bennington, it cannot be denied that they fought with as much bravery as
                     the circumstances would permit in those two battles.
                  Dr. Heister, who commanded the Hessians, was an old soldier of the German war,
                     rigid as a disciplinarian, and exact as a martinet. He was a man of more
                     education than Knyphausen, the second in command. An anecdote is told of the
                     latter, which some of the British officers used to relate with great glee.
                     Having a long passage across the Atlantic, and getting wearied with the sea, he
                     very gravely asked the Admiral of the fleet, on board whose ship he was a
                     passenger, if they might not have sailed past America!
                  
                  It was against Dr. Heister that Lord Sterling's division was mainly opposed.
                     The post of the American commander was on the rising ground near the Red Hook
                     mills, of which buildings, I believe, a few mementos are left, though the rapid
                     extension of Brooklyn will soon eradicate every trace of this battle-field of
                     the revolution.
                  Whilst Lord Sterling was watching the conflict on the ridge of hills, he was
                     somewhat startled to hear the sound of cannon from the road on the water side,
                     commonly called the Narrows road. It happened that, at this moment, Burnham
                     rode up, followed by a dozen of the horsemen which, as before stated, had been
                     granted him by Putnam to carry on his scout.
                  "Major Burnham," said Sterling, "I wish you would go down the Narrows road with
                     your men, and ascertain the meaning of that firing. Dispatch one of your party
                     back as quick as possible with the information."
                  Burnham departed at once for the scene. Riding about half a mile, he came near
                     to some portions of Grant's detachment. They were advancing in good order, and
                     the light skirmishers were fighting on the hill-side with some American
                     riflemen. Farther on, more to the rear, a firing of artillery was heard, and
                     the discharges rapid, announcing that a fierce conflict was taking place.
                     Burnham gazed on the scene for a moment, and exclaimed, between his teeth:
                  "We are out-flanked, and in danger, ride back, one of you, to Lord Sterling, as
                     quick as possible, and tell him that a large force is advancing in his rear,
                     and all will be captured unless the troops are drawn off to the camp in ten
                     minutes' time. Make all haste, I shall remain to see if anything can be
                     done."
                  The soldier, as directed, rode off at a rapid pace.
                  It was true—Grant was advancing in the rear, and had already made too much
                     progress for Sterling's division to effect a retreat. The instant the messenger
                     reached that General, with Burnham's communication, he swore a deep oath,
                     called upon his aid-de-camp to follow him as quick as possible, and rode up the
                     hill where the Americans were engaged with Dr. Heister's division.
                  Addressing himself to the officers of the regiment nearest, he directed their
                     immediate retreat down the hill for the entrenchments of Putnam. So scattered,
                     however, were the troops, that but few had an opportunity to obey the order,
                     for they had no chance to hear it. The Marylanders and Delawares, however,
                     formed in column and commenced a retreat down the hill, turning and firing as
                     the Hessians advanced to the position they had just left.
                  It is now time to turn to Sullivan's division, which was to the east of the
                     Jamaica road. Sullivan himself, made aware of the approach of the enemy, though
                     unexpectedly, endeavored to make such arrangements to give him a warm reception
                     as the state of his forces would allow.
                  He hardly thought the Bedford road would be reached and the onward march of
                     Clinton and Cornwallis would take place at the time both movements occurred.
                     Some small reinforcements were sent him, but not enough to be of much avail.
                     His skirmishers were already engaged with a part of the enemy's advance, for
                     Cornwallis had been directed to move on the Bushwick and Newtown road. In
                     looking out too much for this column, Clinton was enabled to come down the
                     Bedford road to Brooklyn, with very little resistance on the part of the
                     Americans.
                  Ki, after leaving the Cornet and his prisoners at Putnam's camp, was sent
                     forward to Sullivan's division with his small party of horsemen, to be of such
                     service as his means would allow. Thus it will be perceived that Burnham and Ki
                     were attached to separate divisions.
                  In a short time, Ki found himself at the spot where Sullivan was temporarily
                     surveying his position and the approach of the enemy on his left flank. Ki gave
                     him an account of his adventures with Sir Henry Clinton, the way in which he
                     got clear, and his capture of the Cornet and his men,
                  "The horseman you sent me," said Sullivan, "gave a confused account of the
                     advance of the enemy's patrol by the Bedford pass. Was the main force ready to
                     move on?"
                  "Yes, sir, and before long will be in your rear."
                  "Then the day will go against us, I am certain. Follow me, Captain Lane."
                  Riding along toward the Bedford road, they met detachments of their own troops,
                     driven in by the overwhelming forces advancing. Sullivan gazed on with knitted
                     brow—his attention was now directed to a retreat to the camp at Brooklyn, and he gave orders to Ki to go
                     along the Bedford road as far as possible, and direct the skirmishers to
                     dispute the British advance as far as they could, while the main body was
                     filing off in the direction of Brooklyn.
                  On gaining a hill and looking down, Ki could observe most of the conflict. The
                     music of the military bands, at times, rose above the roar of small arms, and,
                     at a distance, the occasional sound of artillery mingled with the rest. Whilst
                     the British light infantry skirmished along the road, the grenadiers in firm
                     column, their burnished arms glistening in the sunlight, and their bearskin
                     caps towering above the troops of the line, advanced with martial step and
                     military precision.
                  The sight, to Ki and his companions, was more magnificent than agreeable. The
                     advance of an enemy upon their native soil could not be pleasant to Americans.
                     But these thoughts were of short continuance, for Ki gave orders to wheel by a
                     circuitous path into the woods, for the purpose of fulfilling the orders of
                     Sullivan.
                  These orders, however, were- of but little use. The enemy were so numerous,
                     that it was a matter of utter impossibility to resist them. Momentary stands
                     and checks were made, but this was all.
                  The main body continued to advance along the road, regiment after regiment,
                     until they wheeled entirely in the rear of Sullivan. Ki rode back as rapidly as
                     possible to inform Sullivan that to retreat with the whole body of troops was
                     impossible, and the best way would be to let every man shift for himself.
                  Sullivan was not to be found, and Ki now found it full time to look out for
                     himself and his little party. This was no easy undertaking. The troops of
                     Clinton were stretched along the peninsula, up to the very entrenchments of
                     Putnam. Taking advantage, however, of a narrow interval in the line, Ki
                     suddenly emerged from a clump of trees, behind which he had been for a few
                     moments concealed with his party. Darting at full speed through the enemy's
                     line, he succeeded in reaching Putnam's camp, with the loss of but two men.
                  Sterling's division were taken in the rear, by the approach of Grant along the
                     Narrows road. Here it was that Smallwood's Maryland and Hazlet's Delaware
                     battalions fought so bravely, in forcing their way across Gowanus marsh,
                     absolutely cutting through the British line, with the loss of half their
                     number. Burnham was with them, and thus effected his safe retreat into the
                     lines at Brooklyn, on that memorable day.
                  The defeat cost our army the loss of about one thousand killed and wounded, and
                     two thousand prisoners. Both Lord Sterling and General Sullivan were taken
                     prisoners. It was a disastrous day for the cause of liberty and
                     independence.
                  Of the masterly movement of Washington, in getting across the East River to New
                     York, after the defeat, ten thousand men, with all their 
                        otores
                        stores
                      and cannon, we give some details from one who was an eye-witness and
                     partaker. The General had sent over, to further strengthen the lines against an
                     attack from General Howe, the morning after the battle, three regiments, the
                     picked ones of the army, at that time. They were posted in the extreme left, at
                     the Wallabout. The author was Captain Graydon, of Shee's battalion. Here is his
                     account:
                  "On the morning after our first night's watch, Colonel Shee took me aside, and
                     asked me what I thought of our situation. I could not but say I thought it a
                     very discouraging one. He viewed it in the same light, he said, and added,
                     that, if we were not soon withdrawn from it, we should inevitably be cut to
                     pieces. So impressed was he with this conviction, that he desired me to go to
                     the quarters of General Reed, and to request him to ride down to the lines,
                     that he might urge him to propose a retreat without loss of time. I went, but
                     could not find him at his quarters, or at any of the other places where it was
                     likely he might be. It was not long, however, before he came to our station,
                     and gave the Colonel an opportunity of conferring with him. This day passed
                     like the last, in unabating skirmishing and rain.
                  "After dark, orders were received, and communicated to us regimentally, to hold
                     ourselves in readiness for an attack upon the enemy, to take place in the
                     course of the night. This excited much speculation among the officers, by whom
                     it was considered a truly daring undertaking, rendered doubly so from the bad
                     condition of our arms, so long exposed to the rain; and although we had
                     bayonets, this was not the case with the whole of our force, upon whom we must
                     depend for support. It was not for us, however, to object to the measure—we
                     were soldiers, and bound to obey. Several nuncupative wills were made upon the
                     occasion, uncertain as it was, whether the persons to whom they were
                     communicated would survive, either to prove or execute them. I was for a while
                     under the impression that we were to fight, and, in the language of the poet,
                     was 'stiffening my sinews and summoning up my blood,' for what, with the rest,
                     I deemed a desperate encounter. But when I came to consider the extreme
                     rashness of such an attempt, it suddenly flashed upon my mind that a retreat
                     was the object, and that the order for assailing the enemy was but a cover to
                     the real design. The more I reflected upon it, the more I was convinced that I
                     was right, and what had passed in the morning with Colonel Shee, seemed to
                     confirm me in my opinion. I communicated my conjecture to some of the officers,
                     but they dared not suffer themselves to believe it well founded, though they
                     gradually came over to my opinion, and, by midnight, they were, for the most
                     part, converts to it.
                  "There was a deep murmur in the camp, which indicated some movement; and the
                     direction of the decaying sounds was evidently towards the river. About two
                     o'clock, a cannon went off, apparently from one of our redoubts, 'piercing the
                     night's dull ear' with a tremendous roar. If the explosion was within our
                     lines, the gun was probably discharged in the act of spiking it; and it could
                     have been no less a matter of speculation to the enemy than to ourselves. I
                     never heard the cause of it; but, whatever it was, the effect was at once
                     alarming and sublime; and what, with the greatness of the stake, the darkness
                     of the night, the uncertainty of the design, and extreme hazard of the issue,
                     whatever might be the object, it would be difficult to conceive a more deeply
                     solemn and interesting scene. It never recurs to my mind, but in the strong
                     imagery of Shakspeare's Henry the Fifth, in which is arrayed, in appropriate
                     gloom, a similar interval of dread suspense and awful expectation.
                  "As our regiment was one of those appointed to cover the retreat, we were, of
                     course, among the last to be drawn off, and it was near daybreak before we
                     received orders to retire. We were formed without delay, and had marched nearly
                     half way to the river, when it was announced that the British light horse were
                     at our heels. Improbable as was the circumstance, it was yet so strenuously
                     insisted upon, that we were halted and formed, the front rank kneeling with
                     presented pikes, to receive the charge of the supposed assailants. None,
                     however, appeared; and the alarm must have proceeded from the fear of those who
                     gave it, magnifying the noise of a few of our horsemen into that of squadrons
                     of the enemy. We again took up the line of march, and had proceeded but a short
                     distance, when the head of the battalion was again halted. The orders we
                     received were erroneous. We were informed that we had come off too soon, and
                     were commanded with all expedition to return to our post. This was a trying
                     business to young soldiers; it was, nevertheless, strictly complied with, and
                     we remained not less than an hour in the lines before we received the second
                     order to abandon them. It may be supposed we did not linger; but, though we
                     moved with celerity, we guarded against confusion, and, under the friendly
                     cover of a thick fog, reached the place of embarkation without annoyance from
                     the enemy, who, had the morning been clear, would have seen what was going on,
                     and been enabled to cut off the greater part of the rear. One of my soldiers
                     being too feeble to carry his musket, which was too precious to be thrown away,
                     I took it from him, and found myself able to carry it, together with my own
                     fusee. On attaining the water, I found a boat prepared for my company, which
                     immediately embarked, and taking the helm myself, I so luckily directed the
                     prow, no object being discernible through the fog, that we touched near the
                     centre of the city. It was between six or seven o'clock, perhaps later, when we
                     landed at New York; and, in less than an hour after, the fog having dispersed,
                     the enemy was visible on the shore we had left."
                  This retreat of Washington has ever been considered by military men as one of
                     the greatest of his exploits.
               
               
                  CHAPTER 
                        XXV
                        XXVII
                     .
                  We must now make a little episode in our regular story, for the purpose of
                     recording the death of a gallant soldier of New York, who fell early in the
                     revolution, and from whose services much had been expected.
                  General Nathaniel Woodhull, of Long Island, was a man much beloved by all who
                     knew him. He had received a classical education, and was, by profession, a
                     lawyer. In the old French war, that is, the war of '56, he was an officer in
                     one of the regiments raised in this colony, and was with his regiment at
                     Ticonderoga, Fort George, and other actions of that period. He acquired the
                     name of a brave, skilful and vigilant officer. When the disputes took place
                     between the colonies and the mother country, his stand was decided for the
                     rights of his native land.
                  He was a member of the first provincial Congress of this State, was President
                     of that body, and was appointed a general officer to command the militia of
                     this State. We have before stated that he was in command of some bodies of men
                     and horsemen on the fatal day of the battle of Long Island, and that, in a
                     measure, the guarding of the pass through which Clinton made his way had been
                     left to him. It was not his personal fault, however, that the route was left
                     open.
                  It was the afternoon of the day of the battle. The conflict itself, however,
                     was over, save here and there a few straggling shots where small parties were
                     engaged in pursuing the fugitives on the American side who had escaped into the
                     woods, fields, and behind the fences and stone walls that skirted the
                     roadside.
                  There was evidence of a thunder-storm gathering. The clouds were fast driving
                     into thick masses, and the hot August sun was becoming obscured. Peals of
                     thunder were heard in the distance, evidently coming nearer. Heavy drops of
                     rain were falling, not thick at first, but large, indicating one of the deluges
                     of the season in our latitudes.
                  Near the Jamaica road, some four or five miles from Brooklyn, was a deep
                     valley, and the sides of the valley were covered with heavy timber and thick
                     undergrowth, almost impenetrable. The woods ran close up to the road, so that a
                     party might easily conceal themselves therein, observing all that passed along
                     the road, yet themselves be free from observation. Under and amid these trees
                     and underbrush, some dozen or more camp followers and others, belonging to the
                     British side, had taken refuge from the rain, and to watch stragglers.
                  Three or four were dressed in the uniform of the British army, regulars, who
                     had strayed off in pursuit of the foe, and to avoid the rain chiefly, had here
                     sought shelter. Most of the other males were armed, but in the garb and dress
                     of countrymen, loyalists, because they had most to gain by it, and who had
                     joined to plunder as irregulars, rather than to fight, from honesty of opinion.
                     They were hard-featured men, generally, the worst inhabitants of the
                     neighborhood, well acquainted with every road and bye-path on that part of the
                     island.
                  A huge iron kettle swung over a hastily constructed crane, the supporters being
                     crotched limbs of trees, across which another stout branch upheld the kettle by a hook. A good
                     fire was blazing underneath, and most of the party snuffed up the savory steam
                     which issued from the kettle, wishing to taste the solid food within.
                  A woman superintended the cooking department, and now and then when some of the
                     men would raise the lid, she did not hesitate to strike a smart blow with a
                     ladle she held, on the fist of the intruder.
                  "Why, Mother Gatchell, you needn't be so fierce, I only want just to look in,
                     for my bowels are grumbling most confoundedly, they are hollow as a drum."
                  "Then, beat tattoo, Jack Carpenter, and you'll feel better; I'm captain of the
                     pot, and serve out the mess."
                  "Yes, mistress, but if you don't serve it out soon, there'll be a mutiny, and
                     we'll help ourselves."
                  "I'd like to see one of you, yes, all of you, try it. Do you see them barkers,
                     boys, all loaded to the muzzles, ain't they pretty critters."
                  The "pretty critters" were four horsemen's pistols, stuck in her belt, under a
                     loose red jacket, that had belonged to some soldier, who had been much larger
                     in girth than herself, though she lacked not for size.
                  "Oh! ho, Mistress Gatchell, you didn't forget the plunder, while after the
                     prog. You are a screamer of a mess woman, and when Hank Suydam raises the Long
                     Island loyal rangers, you shall be the woman of the regiment."
                  "Woman of the devil! Do you think Moll Gatchell will be under the control of
                     any lousy, liver-hearted leader of colony sojers? Not a bit of it, I've jined
                     already, I belong to the reg'lars—reg'larly inlisted and commissioned, ain't it
                     so, Rafe Dowton?" This portion of her conversation was addressed to one of the
                     regulars.
                  "So I was told, Mistress Moll, and you are to look after our mess, in
                     partic'lar. The thirty-third always lives well abroad."
                  "There, do you hear that, you Long Island clam diggin', moss bunker, you,"
                     exclaimed Mother Gatchell, giving the ladle a flourish round her head, and
                     letting it fall with great dexterity, but not very lightly, upon the head of
                     Jack Carpenter, as she called him.
                  Angry as he was, and almost ready to bring his bayonet to a charge, with the
                     musket he held, prudence restrained him, but while he rubbed his head with one
                     hand, his tongue resumed its occupation, in a way that the thrust committed
                     almost as much execution as if done with the bayonet.
                  "Well, Mistress Gatchell, I can only say to this sojer of the thirty-third,
                     it's well you ain't got no more sons to desert to the rebels, as Jake did, to
                     get our necks strung, or it would be a bad day for the thirty-third, when you
                     jined 'em. The mess wouldn't have no secrets, I can tell 'em."
                  If Mother Gatchell had been bitten by a rattlesnake, she could not have started
                     sooner or felt worse The blood rushed to her bronzed face with excitement, and
                     then rolled back. The cut was, indeed, a severe one. She was childless, through
                     her own bad passions—she had reared her offspring to crime, and thus had lost
                     them.
                  It was known almost to a certainty that Jake had deserted, and this, to her,
                     was as hard a blow as if he was really dead. She hated her countrymen with a
                     bitter hate, for to them she thought she could trace back all her troubles,
                     particularly since the commencement of the war. Irritated beyond all bearing,
                     she drew one of the pistols from her belt, and levelled it at Carpenter. He
                     sprang quickly behind one of the soldiers an instant before she pulled the
                     trigger, and it was well he did so, for the ball would have passed directly
                     through his head.
                  This sample of the old woman's rage, of course, made no little commotion among
                     the party. Two of the soldiers advanced, and took hold of her, remonstrating
                     with her upon her conduct.
                  "Don't talk to me," she said, "I'm a better king's woman than you are men. To
                     be insulted by a dirty dog like him But, mark me, I'll have my revenge yet,"
                     and she shook her finger at Carpenter, while she deliberately replaced the
                     pistol in her belt.
                  "I shall look out for that, Mother Gatchell," answered the man, with provoking
                     coolness, "since you gave me notice that you intend to murder,
                     I'll look out for myself. All I want to know is, if I'm safe in your company
                     to-day?"
                  "Yes, for a week to come, after that, look out."
                  This was said in decisive tones, but, apparently honest, on the part of the old
                     hag.
                  "And now this difficulty being settled, suppose, Mistress Gatchell," said one
                     of the soldiers, "you see if the contents of that kettle ain't done; it's
                     coming on to rain harder, and pretty soon, these trees, full of leaves as they
                     are, won't shelter us."
                  The old woman removed the lid, gave the interior of the kettle a stir, and
                     communicated the gratifying intelligence that all was ready. The party soon
                     gathered around, displaying such utensils as they had, camp cups and plates to
                     hold their respective shares, while others took theirs in scoups, made of
                     bark.
                  The kettle or pot was a large sized one, and well filled. It would be hard to
                     give its contents a name. Besides the rations of beef and pork, it contained
                     sundry fowls, a stray goose and duck or two, that Mother Gatchell had seized
                     while nibbling the grass by the road-side, and carefully plucked and cleaned,
                     before they were cut into pieces and thrown into the kettle. Some new potatoes,
                     parsley and biscuit also, formed part of the mess, and the meal was not a bad
                     one, particularly where the appetite was good.
                  "I say, Mother Gatchell, this is a capital stew, but this goose, I think, must
                     be one of the first settlers, judging from the way the flesh hangs to the
                     breast bone."
                  "Beggars shouldn't be choosers. Eat away, and thank your stars you fell in with
                     me."
                  "That I do," replied another soldier, "Bob Clark was always dainty, but this
                     fowl is as tender as a chicken."
                  "Capital, capital," says another. "May the war in America be a long one, if we
                     always get prog like this."
                  "I say, boys, arn't any of you got something drinkable in your canteens."
                  "Drink, drink, Tom? That's what you always want. Why, lad, hold up
                     your mouth for a minute, and catch the drops from the skies. How they patter
                     among the leaves."
                  "If it rained grog, Dowton, you'd have your mouth up quick enough, there would
                     be no chance for me, in such a case."
                  "Eat away, boys, plenty more in the kettle. Eat hearty, perhaps you won't get
                     another meal till to-morrow, and then you'll fall back on salt pork and
                     biscuit," said Mother Gatchell.
                  "Eat, why, we havn't given any signs of stopping yet, although the rain is
                     pouring down on us. Ah! you are an excellent cook, Mistress Gatchell—if you
                     only had a little grog for me now, I'd almost kiss you, bless you, I'm sure I
                     would."
                  Mother Gatchell had some vanity, and she was evidently touched by this tender
                     expression of the smiling son of Mars.
                  "You roguish, red-coated rascal," she said, "I believe you saw me strip that
                     rebel rifle-officer, when he fell at the bottom of the hill. Now, this horn,"
                     said she, as she unfastened one from her belt, "I thought was full of rifle
                     powder, but smell, smell."
                  The soldier took the polished ox horn, and pulling out a small stopper, applied
                     the orifice to his nose; gradually he slipped it down to his mouth, and, but
                     for the "halt! halt!" of Mother Gatchell, repeated rather sharply, it is
                     doubtful whether smell or taste of the contents would have been left for any
                     one else.
                  "Capital stuff, Mistress Gatchell, capital stuff, it's liquor of a kind I never
                     swallowed before, what call you it."
                  "The Virginny and the Pennsylvany boys call it Monongahela. It's whiskey made
                     out of rye, and when it's old, there is no liquor like it," in proof of which,
                     she emptied the horn at a draught.
                  "By St. George, that's unfair, old lady," said one of the soldiers, suspending
                     his dinner for a moment, "here's one of the thirty-third, your mess that is to
                     be, without a taste of the cratur."
                  "You spoke too late, too late," was the reply, "besides, when there's only
                     enough for two, what's the use of spiling the flavor among three. There's a
                     rebel tavern down the road, and when it stops raining, we'll give the owner a
                     call, and try his liquors, if he ain't scampered."
                  "Then, the sooner, lads, we finish eating, the quicker for drinking. I'm done,"
                     and he threw the bone of a fowl he was gnawing, up into one of the trees.
                  The rain now began to come down faster and stronger than ever. The forest of
                     leaves overhead which had so long protected them from the heaviest of the
                     storm, had become saturated, and as the wind rose, it scattered the huge drops
                     down upon them thick and fast.
                  "This is too bad," spoke one, "let us get nearer the road, that wall will
                     shelter us some, and see, there's a piece of old canvas, that may have been one
                     of the rebel tents. Take hold, lads, with me."
                  Dragging the canvas along, and getting under the lee of the wall, they
                     succeeded in putting it up, so that they were, in a measure, sheltered from the
                     heaviest of the rain. An August thunder storm, in the United States, has, to
                     the ear of an European, something awfully sublime. The dazzling, instantaneous
                     flashes of lightning, followed by peals of thunder, shaking heaven and earth,
                     seem, to the unaccustomed hearer, as if all animate and inanimate matter were
                     alike to be crushed, and that chaos was once more to darken the world.
                  "I must observe," said one of the soldiers, recovering himself a little after
                     the last peal, "that Yankee thunder and lightning are big in their way, and I
                     should think couldn't well be equalled. Oh!" As he finished, a vivid flash,
                     followed by a peal of thunder, louder than ever, echoed through the forest.
                  "Ha! ha!" shouted Mother Gatchell, who gloried, nay, revelled in the wild music
                     of the storm," that was splendid—but hark!" She slowly rose, parted a bush and
                     looked over the wall into the road. Carpenter also did the same, The sound of a
                     horse's feet, at full speed, was heard along the road, and Carpenter beckoned
                     to one of the soldiers to hand him his gun.
                  "Shake the powder out of the pan, and put in fresh priming," he said, in a low
                     tone. This was done, and the gun handed him.
                  From the place where Mother Gatchell and Carpenter, the tory, stood, they could
                     see fifty or a hundred yards up and down the road. From the sound, the horse
                     and rider were coming from the direction of Brooklyn, towards Jamaica, or
                     rather beyond Jamaica. The rain still fell heavily, but the lightning and
                     thunder were rolling away to the east.
                  Soon, horse and rider made their appearance. The steed was at rapid gallop, and
                     now and then, the person he bore, would turn 
                        and and
                        and
                      anxiously look back, along the road he came. He was a middle-aged
                     man, and dressed in the uniform of a general officer of the American army.
                     Carpenter gritted his teeth when he recognized the officer through the
                     bushes.
                  "Ah! I have you at last. It's General Woodhull, the d—st whig on Long Island;
                     not a man with him either. Now, Mister General, I'll pay you for getting me
                     locked up in Hempstead Jail, because I helped myself to another man's horse,
                     that owned three more than he used."
                  He cocked his gun and took deliberate aim, but the horse, whether from the
                     acuteness of that animal, when nearing danger, displayed oftentimes, made a
                     shear, and the ball passed in front of the officer. He gave one glance into the
                     thicket, put spurs to his steed, and dashed out of sight.
                  A few miles beyond the village of Jamaica, stood, and, unless torn down within
                     a few years, still stands a small tavern, built of wood, a story and a half
                     high. In 1776, it was kept by a man named Carpenter. A tory at heart, he
                     pretended to be a whig, although it was generally suspected he had
                     communications with General Howe, when that officer landed at Gravesend, with his troops, where, it
                     will be remembered, he remained sometime, before the line of march was taken to
                     Brooklyn by the army.
                  The same afternoon, and about the same hour of the occurrence related in the
                     preceding paragraph but one, Carpenter was sitting in his tavern, with three or
                     four cronies of the same political stamp.
                  "Well, Joe," said Carpenter, "I guess we'd better show our hands now. The
                     rebels have got a dose they can't get over. The king's side is the right side
                     for safety, as I thought."
                  "Yes, yes, Jacob Carpenter, that's true, there will be glorious pickins' for
                     honest men, and king's men, like you and me, when the whig farms come to be
                     given to loyal subjects."
                  "Very right, Joe. Besides, the British pay us off in gold, and the rebel
                     Congress would stick their dirty paper on us, that won't be worth so many dead
                     oak leaves in a month's time. The story runs, the rebels are all licked out,
                     clean up to the lines."
                  "Yes, so one of the British officers told me, as he stopped at my door to take
                     a drink of milk. He was carrying the news to Sir William Howe, Jacob."
                  "To Sir William Howe, ha?" and the tavern-keeper's eyes twinkled with peculiar
                     lustre.
                  "They do say, Jacob," said the farmer he called Joe, in a low tone, "that you
                     and Sir William Howe understand each other. Don't forget me when you see him,
                     Jacob, you know I'll do you many a good turn, and I've always been on the
                     king's side."
                  "Yes, yes, Joe, we'll see, we'll see." In this manner, the two conversed for
                     sometime, when, suddenly, one of the party looking out of the window,
                     exclaimed, "Who's this, riding up so fast in the rain?"
                  "It's General Woodhull, d—n him," said Carpenter. "Well, if he
                        will put himself in a trap, it's no fault of mine," he
                     continued.
                  The General, dripping with rain, rode up to the door, where Carpenter met him.
                     This Jacob Carpenter was a cousin to the one before mentioned in this
                     chapter.
                  "Jacob," said the General, "have any of the king's troops been this way, as
                     yet?"
                  "No, sir, they have not."
                  "Then I will step in for a moment, for I am ringing wet." He cast his eyes
                     anxiously up to the dark, heavy clouds, filled with rain, before he went in. "I
                     think I must have a quarter of an hour's start," he muttered to himself.
                  The tavern-keeper led the General's horse in the rear of the house, where he
                     remained for a moment. The officer noticed he had an open knife in his hand,
                     when he returned to the bar-room.
                  "Give me a glass of wine, I feel chilled."
                  Carpenter handed him the wine, without making any remark, and the General began
                     to feel uneasy, from the cold looks of those around him, for the all knew him
                     well. In about five minutes time, he said—
                  "I think the rain is checked a little, I'll mount and ride on."
                  He went himself to get his horse.
                  "It will puzzle the rebel General to mount, I think," said Carpenter, with a
                     malicious grin to his companions.
                  General Woodhull found his horse, but the girths of the saddle had been cut, as
                     also the reins! A troop of British light horse, at the same moment, came
                     dashing along the road, and rode directly up to the door of the tavern.
                     Woodhull, seeing that all was over, with a calm countenance, entered the
                     bar-room the back way, just as a party of the dismounted troopers came through
                     in front.
                  "Ah! ha! here is one of the flying-hares, at last. A prize, boys, a prize. Who
                     are you, sir?" said the leader of the party.
                  "General Nathaniel Woodhull, of the New York troops."
                  "A General, too. Well, down on your marrow bones, and say 'God save the
                     king.'"
                  "I am your prisoner, sir, and expect to be treated like a soldier and a
                     gentleman," answered the General, firmly.
                  "A rebel gentleman! Come, say 'God save the king.'"
                  "God save us all! I will say nothing else," replied the intrepid
                     officer.
                  The ruffian drew his broadsword, and struck at the General, who raised him arm
                     to ward off the blow. It cut clear to the bone, and the blood spouted all
                     around. Two or three others, equally brutal, now came up, and the poor unarmed
                     officer was terribly hacked and mutilated. It is said, Major Baird, of the 71st
                     regiment, was one of the assailants. We can hardly believe a British officer of
                     that rank could have been a party to so foul an act.
                  General Woodhull soon became insensible, from loss of blood. In the course of
                     the night, he was taken to a church, where many other prisoners were confined,
                     under a strong guard. Receiving no medical assistance, the second or third day
                     after, locked-jaw set in, and the gallant Woodhull perished, a martyr to the
                     "good old cause."
                  He rallied sufficiently a little before his death, to write a letter to his
                     wife, in which he prayed earnestly for the success of his native land, in her
                     desperate struggle. Like Montgomery, Mercer, Nash and others, he did not live
                     to see the colonies independent, but their blood cemented the foundation laid.
                     This account of the death of Woodhull is strictly historical, but given fuller
                     in detail than usually narrated.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVIII.
                  Before continuing the main thread of our story, we must refer to a young
                     officer who was mentioned a chapter or two back—Capt. Hale.
                  It will be recollected that he left the American camp at New York, for Long
                     Island, as a spy, some days before the battle took place. He did not cross by
                     the way of Brooklyn, as his undertaking was one of secresy—the more public, the
                     more dangerous.
                  He went as far east on the island as Huntington, from whence he struck across,
                     to avoid the American scouts, some of whom penetrated as far in small parties,
                     and to forage.
                  The dress of Hale was that of a common farmer, or farmer's laborer, of the day.
                     A black, rough-wove hat, rather slouched than cocked, a coat of homespun wool
                     and linen mixed, no waistcoat, and linsey woolsey breeches, tied with strings,
                     and cowhide shoes.
                  These, with a stick and a basket of some size, completed all that he bore about
                     him. The contents of his purse amounted to a couple of Spanish quarters and a
                     few pistareens, of the old stamp, a coin now almost unknown. This money was
                     from the contingent fund of Washington, supplied by Congress for secret service
                     money, when Continental bills were of no avail.
                  The first night Hale stopped at a substantial farm-house, the occupant of which
                     endeavored to be non-committal in his conversation. He was anxious to draw from
                     Hale his opinions, but the latter was too cautious to express them.
                  "It is said," spoke the host, as he lit his pipe, after supper, "that the
                     Britishers are mighty numerous about Flatbush and Gravesend, and that we'll
                     have a party of 'em this way 'fore long. They are good payers, too, I
                     hear—nothing but gold for what they buy."
                  "Yes," replied Hale, "the King of England and Parliament are very rich."
                  "Continental bills are getting down," and the host took another long puff.
                  "Yes."
                  "Why can't they pay, like King George, in gold? A man must look
                     out for himself."
                  "They haven't it," was the short answer.
                  "War uses up a terrible sight of money. I don't see how Congress can carry
                     it."
                  "They can't, unless the people make sacrifices."
                  "That's very true, but will the people do it? It's hard a man should risk his
                     all in unsartain matters—besides, the king has a good many friends among the
                     people, too."
                  "Yes, in some parts of the country—in others, none at all."
                  "He's a good many about here, I think," said the farmer, in a low tone, looking
                     Hale full in the face, as he shook the ashes out of his pipe.
                  "More than there are on the side of Congress?"
                  "I reckon so. You see how it is. The king's troops will get New York, and the
                     Continental troops can't stop 'em. Now, thirty thousand sojers, in New York,
                     must eat, and Long Island raises the food. So, when you come to put into the
                     farmers' pockets gold for all they sell, instead of Continental rags, they
                     ain't much to blame for looking out for number one."
                  "No, as you reason, it's perfectly right. This, you think, is the
                     general feeling on Long Island?"
                  "Oh! no doubt of it."
                  "And you think so, likewise?"
                  "Well, I didn't say so—did I? These are ticklish times, and he's a wise man
                     that can steer through without touchin' either side. Now, my friend, let me
                     hear your opinions. What do you think?"
                  "On what subject?"
                  "Which side do you believe in and go for?"
                  "The right side."
                  "Ah! but which do you call the right side?"
                  "There can be but one right side—which that is, let every one judge as his
                     conscience tells him. If, as an American, you think the king's side right, join
                     it—if not, you know the other course to pursue. The greater the sacrifice, the
                     purer the motive."
                  "Why you talk just as our Domine talks, though, to tell you the truth, I think
                     he's getting to be a little more king-like in his opinions than he used to
                     be."
                  "Well," said Hale, rising rather abruptly, "I have to journey early in the
                     morning, and, as I don't own a horse, and am too poor to buy one, if you'll
                     tell me where I'm to sleep, I shall feel thankful. I must be away before
                     sunrise."
                  He drew the few pieces of coin from his pocket, held them out to the farmer,
                     and requested him to take out the sum for his supper and night's lodging.
                  "Why," said the host, looking at the money and hesitating, "I didn't mean to
                     charge you anything."
                  "No, no, I prefer paying."
                  The farmer selected one of the Spanish quarters, and guided Hale to a small
                     room on the ground floor, saying:
                  "There, you'll find as good a bed as there is on the island, and can sleep
                     sound, I reckon. I get up before daylight myself, and I'll see that you are
                     awake early."
                  Hale, without taking off his clothes, threw himself upon the bed, and was soon
                     in deep slumber.
                  The farmer went to his own room, which was on the same floor, but upon the
                     other wing of the house. He did not propose to go to bed, but seated himself in
                     a comfortable arm-chair near the window. After conning with himself upon some
                     scheme, he rose and went to the bedside.
                  "Anneke?"
                  "Well, what is't you want, old man—why don't you come to bed—it must be very
                     late?"
                  "That's the reason I aint coming to bed. The oats and the grain, you know, have
                     got to be on their way to camp before daylight, besides the two big wagons of
                     hay. Fifty guineas an't earnt every day, nor night nither, and it won't do for
                     the whig neighbors to know it. Besides, I don't know what to make of that
                     strange man, that's sleepin' in the east room. He talks too learned and
                     minister-like for the dress he wears."
                  "I know'd the instant I got a look at him, and wanted you to tell him we
                     couldn't lodge him any way. What time is Sempronus to come with the men?"
                  "A couple of hours afore daylight, if everything is fixed right. The guard is
                     to come down and take the wagons early, so they'll be out of our hands, and I
                     won't be suspected in the business."
                  "Then you'd better keep a look out for the stranger. He might hear the noise, and if he's
                     aginst us, he'll make trouble for us among the rebel neighbors. Now, I'll go to
                     sleep again." Aunt Anneke was breathing hard in a few moments.
                  Although Hale slept sound, a slight noise usually awoke him. He was aroused by
                     what he thought a slight tapping against the window, the sash of which had been
                     partially raised, to let in the air. Not clearly awake, he listened confusedly
                     to hear the tapping repeated, instead of which, the 
                        sonnd
                        sound
                      of voices and conversation, in a low tone, fell upon his ear. He rose
                     cautiously and went to the window.
                  "Why, Semp, how came you to knock at that window. There's a stranger in the
                     room that might play Old Nick with us both in this business."
                  "Why, Massa John, you tell me to knock at the window when I come'd, but yer
                     didn't say which one, Massa John," was the reply of Semp, or Sempronius, more
                     classically speaking, one of the old-fashioned Long Island negro race, now
                     pretty much extinct.
                  "Speak low, Semp. Who's with you? Enough to load the wagons in half an
                     hour?"
                  "Yes, yes. Lordy, there's Pomp and his brother, Nick and his two boys, and
                     three or four New York darkeys, dat isn't worth much, dat's a fac."
                  "You've seen the commissary, Semp. I suppose. You know I'm leaving it all to
                     you, and three gold guineas for your share is a good deal of money."
                  "Oh! leave Semp alone for regulating dese tings. Dar is to be three wagons ob
                     oats, two ob wheat, and de two double team wagons ob hay. De commonsary's man
                     is to be at the cross road, dat's exactly eight miles off, a little farder or a
                     little behind."
                  "Quick, go on."
                  "Den he's to hab wid him a troop ob horse, de King's horse, all dressed up in
                     scarlet and gold, so bery fine dat I tink I nebber see de like, not eben at de
                     great training day at Jericho."
                  "Leave that out, Semp, and tell me what the soldiers are to do?"
                  "Why, Massa John, an't Semp tellin' as fast as ebber his tongue let him?"
                  "Go on your way, niggers will take the longest road to the mill," said the
                     farmer, petulantly.
                  "Now, Massa John. You know dat Semp is free as any white man, dese ten years,
                     and de term nigger am not all apply to me. D'ye hear dat, Massa John?"
                  "I was wrong, Semp—I won't say so again, but tell me, what is to be done with
                     the wagons and horses, after the company gets through with them."
                  "Dat's de right kind ob 'pology, Massa John. Well den, when we gets to de cross
                     roads, de company—he take charge ob de wagons, take em down to de British camp
                     wid de dribers, and de bery next night, at de same hour, he cum back, wid de
                     empty wagons, to de camp roads, and Semp bring 'em back agin to fill up, as
                     long as de barn hold out, and fodder enough left for the stock in winter."
                  'All very good, Semp, very good. Ah! you are a cunning fellow, and always was.
                     The jug is full, out in the barn, and there is some cold meat and bread and
                     butter out there too. Now, let's all take a smack, and load up as quick as we
                     can."
                  The two men, "Massa John" and Semp proceeded together to the barn.
                  "Here," thought Hale, as he withdrew from the window, "is one of a class of our
                     unfortunate countrymen, whose hearts would be right, but for fear of the
                     despoiling of the means they possess, be their wealth what it may. A love of
                     gold and a love of true freedom are incompatible. This man, at heart, I doubt
                     not, wishes well for his country, but that country is poor and weak. On the
                     contrary, the foe is both rich and strong. If we were all united, we could
                     drive our enemy into the sea, and sweep them forever from our shores, in a
                     single campaign. Alas! that the few must ever bear the 
                        bnrden
                        burden
                      of the many, in achieving great results, which redound to the benefit
                     of all. We find the flower of our youth risking the greatest wealth in the
                     world—life, yet this man will not risk our famished army with a load of
                     provisions, without pay in gold, but freely and willingly supplies those who
                     would trample upon us—perhaps himself, if necessary.
                  He laid again on the bed, but not to sleep, for he did not wish to awaken any
                     suspicion on the part of his host, should he enter the house and find him up.
                     He made up his mind to leave as soon as practicable, after the master of the
                     house had despatched his wagons.
                  Now and then, he could hear a noise from the barn, and the neighing and
                     stamping of the horses, who had nearly received their heavy loads.
                  Let us take a look there. A well to do farmer, one of the substantial kind,
                     "Massa John's" barns were always well filled when harvest came round.
                  "I think, Semp, we might squeeze out another equal quantity for
                     the commissary, if he would advance in the pay a little, don't you think so,
                     Semp?"
                  "Oh! yes, Massa John, mighty sartain ob dat, and hab plenty of stock for de
                     winter, besides. I guess he come up a little scratch, if I talk right to
                     him."
                  "If you do, Semp, the next time, you shall have five gold guineas, instead of
                     three, you cunning fellow, you."
                  Semp, who had an eye to windward, as well as "Massa John," had something to say
                     about it.
                  "Why, you see, Massa John, it's risky kind ob business, and when white folks
                     cotch a man ob color doin' a litte wrong, dey ginerally, accordin' to de best
                     ob my obserwation, puts it on to him double."
                  "What do I understand by that, Semp?"
                  "Why, you see, it's dis. Make de offer six guineas, and I'll accept, and do
                     what I can wid de commonsary, and run all de risk, dat's de fac."
                  "Well, well, Semp, you shall have the six, only be faithful, be true, because
                     some of our strong whig neighbors, and you know there are some pretty strong
                     ones about, might treat us both to coats of tar and feathers, and then send us
                     over to the American lines on the New York side, and that wouldn't be very
                     pleasant, Semp."
                  "No, I reckon not Massa John, and I guess I'd get along the wust. Day'd take me
                     and sell me, and pocket de cash, dats what would be de end of Semp. Semp an't
                     no sich fool as to be cotch't, anyhow."
                  "Semp, you are a bright fellow if your skin is a little dark. The wagons are
                     all loaded, and it don't want more'n an hour and a half of daylight Try the jug
                     once more, and be off."
                  Semp's party, all blacks, came up at the signal, and the jug soon emitted a
                     hollow sound, giving ample warning that it would have to be replenished for
                     some future trial.
                  "Good bye, Massa John, I'll be back wid de cash for dis provender, about
                     breakfast time," and putting himself at the head of the train, the whole party
                     left the barn-yard and turned down the road which skirted the farmer's house.
                     The owner watched the train, until it was lost to sight in the darkness, and he
                     then slowly entered the house.
                  Hale, let what he supposed half an hour's time elapse, for the wagons to get
                     some way on their journey, before he got off the bed. He made some noise, for
                     the purpose of letting his host know that he was awake and about to start.
                     Opening the door, he found the farmer with his coat on his arm, and
                     barefooted.
                  "Why, you are up early," said he, "you'd better stay to breakfast."
                  "No, I thank you, I feel refreshed, and my business is such that I must be some
                     miles away before sunrise, or else I shall miss one object of my journey."
                  "You go yonder way, I believe?" said the farmer, pointing in a contrary
                     direction, from the one the wagons had taken.
                  "Yes, for the present," was the reply.
                  "Well, a safe journey to you, sir, a safe journey. Times are dangerous—trouble
                     all round—I hope things will soon be settled to please us both, for as you may
                     say, I wish well to the right"
                  "Thank you—the right, is the side I have chosen," and Hale went on
                     his way. He had no sooner lost sight of the house, then he crossed a lot or
                     two, and by a circuitous path reached the road beyond the house, in the
                     direction Semp had gone with the wagons.
                  "A brisk quarter of an hour's walk," he said, "will bring me up with the train,
                     and I must watch my opportunity then to accomplish my intentions."
                  As he said, fifteen minutes time brought him within hearing distance of the
                     train and the creak of the wagon-wheels. Watching his opportunity, for it was
                     yet quite dark, he escaped observation, and was soon alone behind the last
                     wagon, which was loaded to the top with hay. The drivers were all walking by
                     the sides of their respective wagons, though holding the reins. Hale, who was
                     very active, by the aid of a rope which extended over the load, mounted to the
                     top, and threw himself among the hay unperceived, out of sight, yet where he
                     could see and hear in safety.
                  It was not long before they entered a piece of woodland or forest, through the
                     centre of which run the road.
                  In due time, though it seemed to Hale much longer than it really was, (so slow
                     does time pass, when we are anxious; alas! how swift does it speed at other
                     periods,) the wagons reached the cross-roads. It was still dark, though a faint
                     ray of the coming morn was seen "dappling the east," when they halted. A single
                     horseman rode out from the shelter of a tree.
                  "Here at last," he said, in somewhat peremptory tones; "I've a good mind not to
                     pay you half the price agreed upon. For an hour we have been waiting, and it
                     will be an hour after daylight before we get into camp, with a chance of having
                     a lot of rebel shooters popping at us from behind every tree."
                  "Couldn't help it, Massa," was the submissive answer of Semp.
                  "Well, come here, I would talk with you," and the horseman and Semp went under
                     the tree, out of Hale's hearing. In the course of ten minutes both returned,
                     and Semp gave orders to the drivers to follow the stranger, who would return
                     with them to the same place the next night. He then, with two of his
                     companions, retraced his way down the road.
                  The horseman directed the drivers of the wagons to turn the cross-road. He
                     looked about, and he soon observed two files of dragoons, about twenty in each
                     file, drawn up on the sides of the road. As the wagons approached, one file
                     wheeled and took the advance, whilst the other closed up the rear. Thus
                     carefully guarded, the train passed in the direction of the British camp.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIX.
                  There are now but few land-marks, furrows traced out by war's ploughshare
                     during the Revolution, to be found upon or around New York Island. The increase
                     of population, the building up of houses upon grounds which was all country not
                     a third of a century ago, and the progressive march of railroads and new
                     avenues, are fearful interlopers upon antiquarian haunts. Thirty years ago the
                     remains of many of the fortifications which covered the island from Corlear's
                     Hook to the North River, along the ridge of hills now levelled and called Grand
                     street, were still visible. Bunker's Hill yet remained in all its glory, and
                     Belvidere, Mount Pitt and Ranelagh still bore those old names, names by which
                     they were known during the revolution. But in the oft repeated quotation,
                        sic transit, gloria mundi.
                  Immediately after the battle of Long Island and the retreat of the American
                     troops over the river, great efforts were made to put New York in a state of
                     defence:
                  By many military men it has been urged that Washington should never have
                     attempted to retain the city or island, the naval power of the British alone,
                     by descending both rivers, preventing any peculiar advantages that might arise
                     from retaining it.
                  
                  It is now well known that at a council of regular officers, held at the
                     quarters of Washington, it was decided by a majority, to which Washington gave
                     his assent, that the city should be fortified and defended. This decision,
                     after experience proved an unwise one, and General Lee strongly opposed it at a
                     preliminary meeting of officers long before.
                  The American fortifications were at Corlaer's Hook and Horn's Hook, opposite
                     Hellgate, and Montezores (now Randall's) Island, on the east river side. The
                     battery at Fort George, and one along the banky hills in the rear of old
                     Trinity church, with Fort Washington on the upper end of the island, were the
                     main defences on the North River side.
                  At Fort Washington was encamped a number of the finest regiments of the army,
                     principally from Pennsylvania and Maryland, with some New York and New England
                     militia. The chief portion of the army, however, was in and directly around the
                     city proper.
                  It is difficult to tell what the exact number of Washington's forces were, for
                     large bodies of militia were continually coming and going, and they knew so
                     little of military rule, that half the time their officers made no report to
                     the Adjutant General.
                  Graydon, in his memoirs, states, that when he arrived at New York with his
                     regiment (Col. Shee's of Pennsylvania,) he found the New England battalions
                     practising at street fighting, but he does not give the reason. It was supposed
                     General Howe would land at the lower part of the city with his troops,
                     protected by his ships of war, and drive out the Americans. The latter
                     accordingly made their preparations to defend the place, street by street.
                  The lingering of Howe, for more than two weeks after his victory on Long
                     Island, was a mystery to the American general officers. Even Howe, in his
                     published defence, when brought to inquiry afterwards by the ministry, gave no
                     satisfactory explanation. His chief reasons were, that he had been led to infer
                     that a majority of the people were yet loyal to the government and that the
                     news of the disastrous defeat on Long Island would put an end to the rebellion,
                     so called. General Howe was both mistaken and misled.
                  The morning of Sunday, the 15th of September, 1776, was bright and lovely. A
                     clear fall air, so peculiar with us during this month, made the atmosphere
                     bland, yet bracing, and the sun's warmth enlivened, instead of heating and
                     depressing the animal frame. The day before, the British sloops-of-war—the Rose
                     and Phœnix—had passed the batteries at Corlaer's Hook, without receiving much
                     damage, and anchored off Kip's Bay, near the lower end of Blackwell's
                     Island.
                  At Kip's Bay were stationed two brigades of militia, under the command of
                     Generals Parson and Fellows—troops that had arrived in camp but a few days
                     before—men just off their farms, and perfectly ignorant of discipline, either
                     in practice or theory—and yet, it so happened, these men occupied, that day,
                     the most important position on the island Nearly opposite Kip's Bay, on the
                     Long Island side, is Newtown Creek, which then penetrated into the back country
                     several miles, the tide flowing up to its source.
                  At the source of this creek, or stream, General Howe had caused to be built an
                     immense number of flat-bottomed boats, scows, and some other craft he had
                     seized, capable of conveying to the New York side eight or ten thousand men,
                     with their artillery. At daylight, of the day mentioned, the movement
                     commenced, but it was near ten o'clock before the first division of boats
                     reached the mouth of Newtown Creek, and deployed, as it were, on the widest
                     portion of the East River. A spectator of that scene, who yet survives, full of
                     years and honors,*
                      describes it as beautiful indeed. The calm serenity of the day—the
                     beams of the sun reflecting upon the glittering arms and scarlet uniforms of
                     the British soldiers in the numberless boats—the soldiers from the fleet, in
                     their blue jackets, who pulled the oars—all combined to make a living picture
                     seldom witnessed in a life-time.
                        
                        *The venerable Jeremiah Johnson, of Brooklyn. He was then a boy, about
                           twelve years of age, and witnessed it from his father's farm, on the
                           banks of the East River.
                     
                  Forming somewhat the shape of a wedge, with the apex towards Kip's Bay, the
                     flotilla moved rapidly onward, pulled by the sturdy arms of the ocean oarsmen.
                     As soon as the van reached the centre of the stream, the two sloops-of-war
                     opened their guns upon the spot where it was intended the troops should land,
                     to clear the way for their disembarkation.
                  Whether any return fire with artillery was made from Kip's Bay, cannot now be
                     told Most probably not. There was certainly no field artillery attached to the
                     militia brigades, and, probably, no cannon were mounted on the heights back of
                     the little bay, nor is it probable there were any entrenchments thrown up at
                     all, for an attack was not expected in that quarter. The whistling and ricochetting of the eighteen-pounder balls, from the men-of-war,
                     was new kind of music to the militia guard on the river-side, and it is hardly
                     to be wondered that they backed out in double-quick time, after seeing the head
                     of one of their number taken off, and another cut in two by the iron 
                        missles
                        missiles
                      of death.
                  The landing place at Kip's Bay was, and, we believe, is, (if the march of
                     improvement has not extended to that neighborhood,) a huge shelving granite
                     rock, yet surrounded by deep water on one side. As the van of the British boats
                     neared the shore, one of the bands struck up the national air of "God save the
                     King," which passing from band to band, the whole bay rang with music, many of
                     the soldiers joining in chorus.
                  Within forty or fifty yards of the shore, from a small clump of trees, a fire
                     was opened by a few men there concealed, which did but little injury, wounding
                     slightly two or three men in the foremost boat.
                  "Push on, my jolly blue jackets," said a daring Ensign of the buffs, who rose
                     and unfolded the regimental flag; "put us lobster-backs ashore, as you call us,
                     and you'll find that Britannia can rule on land as well as on the sea. Push on,
                     lads—one more pull, and here are a couple of guineas for the first landing on
                     our side."
                  A strong man-of-war's pull, and the boat swung close up to the rocks. The young
                     Ensign leaped ashore, tossed the guineas to the crew, as promised, and, waving
                     his flag, exclaimed, in a loud voice:
                  "Britannia rules the—oh!"
                  A groan finished the sentence, and he fell back into the arms of the Sergeant,
                     who had followed him, a quivering corse. A musket-shot from the clump of trees
                     had finished his mortal career, just upon the threshold of that land he came
                     three thousand miles to aid in conquering.
                  Boat after boat struck the shore, in the course of five minutes, and a staff
                     officer having landed, the line was formed, and the troops marched over the
                     rock, and across the rude causeway, until they reached the meadow that skirts
                     the old Kip mansion. The American guard who occupied that building retreated,
                     firing only a few shot, to the main body higher up the rising ground, which
                     could hardly be called a hill.
                  When the British were first seen crossing the bay from Newtown creek, their
                     object was not specially known or comprehended. It was thought that it might be
                     their intention to land upon Blackwell's Island, for the purpose of fortifying
                     it. It was not long, however, before General Parsons comprehended their
                     intentions, and he immediately dispatched a messenger to General Washington's
                     quarters in the city.
                  It so happened that the night before, Washington, with his staff and a portion
                     of his guard, had gone up to Harlem Heights, for the purpose of examining the
                     fortifications there thrown up, and to select such a portion for the halt of
                     his troops, if driven from New York, as would combine safety with comfort. He
                     was engaged in this duty, when the sound of the cannon fired from the British
                     vessels of war, warned him that some sudden attack or alarm had occurred during
                     his absence.
                  Crossing Harlem plains from the Kings-bridge road, with his staff and dragoons,
                     he rode 
                        rapidily
                        rapidly
                      down to the old Boston Post road, which then turned by the way of
                     Cato's, and in less than an hour he came in sight of Kip's bay. The scene which
                     there met his eye, caused a singular excitement in his countenance, his
                     compressed lip, fixed teeth and the flashings of his bluish grey eye, were
                     noted by those immediately around him.
                  The militia were flying in all directions and the British light infantry were
                     pursuing them in regular order, while the field artillery was rapidly landing
                     upon the rock from the boats.
                  "Good God! gentlemen!" exclaimed Washington, "is it with such troops we are to
                     meet the enemy, and gain the liberties of our country. Forward, Forward!" and
                     the whole party rode rapidly in the direction of the advancing and 
                        victorous
                        victorious
                      English troops
                  The nearer they approached the scene of action, the more disgraceful everything
                     appeared. Here was a militia officer throwing away his sword and trying to
                     crawl over or through a fence, perhaps ahead of his men in the retreat, and
                     they no less eager to escape after such examples, tossed away their haver-sacks
                     to run the faster.
                  "Stop, coward, stop!" exclaimed Washington, in his loudest tones, riding into a
                     group of privates His speech was directed to a man whose cockade denoted him an
                     officer, who was just throwing one leg over the fence to escape into a ditch on
                     the other side, "stop, coward, stop, or I will shoot you down," and the
                     Commander-in-Chief drew a pistol from his holster. The militia officer was too
                     quick in his movements, for he rolled rather than leapt from the fence into the
                     ditch, out of sight. But it was now time for the General and his staff to look
                     out for their own safety, for a detachment of British troops were within fifty
                     yards.
                  So evident was the rage of Washington at the dastardly retreat that he had not
                     perceived his own danger. It is said that on this occasion, and so related in
                     some histories of the times, that, in the midst of his anger he threw his
                     chapeau on the ground. We have been told, and feel inclined to believe, that
                     such was not the fact. In the excitement of the moment he rose in his stirrups,
                     shook his head, and his chapeau fell off.
                  Ki Lane, who was that day at the head of the guard, instantly dismounted,
                     picked up the General's cap, and handed it to him. At the same moment, his
                     secretary and aid, Gen. Reed, rode up the other side, and said —
                  "General Washington, the enemy are within a few yards of us—a moment's delay,
                     and we shall be captured."
                  Washington made no reply, but still continued to gaze with indignation upon the
                     retreating troops. At a signal from Reed, Ki seized the bridle of the General's
                     horse, and wheeled him in a contrary direction from the advancing regulars
                  This seemed at once to recall Washington to himself; he glanced at Reed and Ki,
                     then looking at the British troops, merely said, "you have done right," and the
                     party made their way through the fugitives, striking over the island by a
                     narrow path, which led into the middle road. Just as they reached it, a small
                     party of horse, led by Burnham, from the city, dashed up, and hailed the
                     Commander-in-Chief with joy, for it had been whispered by some of the
                     retreating militiamen who reached the city, that he and his staff had been cut
                     off.
                  Burnham briefly related the movements in the city, that the troops, with their
                     cannon, were already in movement, only awaiting orders.
                  "Return instantly, Major Burnham, to General Putnam, and tell him to put all
                     the troops in motion, with their cannon and stores, for Harlem Heights. Such
                     stores as cannot be removed, must be destroyed Let him consult General Greene,
                     but do all things quietly. It will be two hours, at least, before the British
                     troops will be in sufficient numbers to extend their lines over the island, and
                     by that time, our rear guard should be at the five mile stone, and out of
                     danger. I rely upon the discretion of the two Generals, and urge upon them
                     haste. I must return to the Heights, and pick out our encampment, for I fear
                        to-night night much; the
                     dastardly retreat at Kip's Bay will nerve the enemy to attempt anything.
                     Gentlemen, forward."
                  The General and his escort, preceded by a solitary trumpeter, rode rapidly in
                     the direction of the Harlem Heights, whilst Burnham and his party pursued their
                     way, with equal speed, to the city. That single trumpet sent up no victorious
                     notes on that day of gloom, but in singular contrast, from the water-side, the
                     bands of the enemy beat their lordly and triumphant notes of victory and
                     success. The heart—even of the warmest patriot in the army, succumbed, in a
                     measure, to the sound, and little did any one on either-side imagine that when
                     next the music of the two armies should arise on the same ground, it would be
                     with notes of triumph on the part of the now defeated, on the glorious 25th of
                     November, seven years later.
                  When Burnham reached the city, he found everything in commotion and excitement.
                     The troops, however, were mostly drawn up, and ready to march. The instant
                     Washington's orders were made known, the advance brigades were put in motion
                     for Harlem Heights, and in a short time, most of the soldiers had taken up
                     their line of retreat.
                  Large numbers of the inhabitants, who were on the side of their country, felt
                     that the city was no longer a place of refuge for them, on the contrary, the
                     tories who had suffered somewhat from the persecutions of the whigs, now felt
                     it was their turn to raise a note of triumph at the approach of their friends.
                     It was indeed, a sad sight to see women and children, forsaking the homes where
                     they were born, exiling themselves to avoid the tumults that follow in the
                     track of war. Many of them left their all forever, and the pleasant dwellings,
                     which had been the scene of a thousand joys.
                  Fortunately, and almost miraculously, but a very few Americans were taken
                     prisoners in the retreat to Harlem Heights. The last brigade was saved by
                     Colonel Burr, after it had thrown itself into a redoubt near the corner of
                     Broadway and Grand street, called Bunker's Hill. The commander, General
                     Silliman, supposed that they were cut off, but Burr, then the Aid-de-Camp of
                     Putnam, rode up, and remonstrated on the folly of the troops remaining where
                     they were, and he conducted them in safety, by a cross-path, to the
                     Bloomingdale Road, by which they passed in safety to the heights, not half an
                     hour before the British line extended directly across the island from Kip's
                     Bay. Sir William Howe had stopped at the mansion of Mrs. Murray, on Icklebery
                     or Murray's Hill, to refresh himself with some cake and a glass of wine!
                  Toward the close of the afternoon, it came on to rain heavily, which continued
                     through the night, and the American troops, tired, fatigued and hungry, without
                     tents, and supperless, passed the memorable night of the 15th of September on
                     Harlem Heights.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXX.
                  The head-quarters of the American army, the night of the day it retreated from
                     New York, was at Colonel Morris's house, on Harlem Heights. The advance party
                     of the army extended to the ridge of land which extends from Harlem River,
                     skirting the upper side of Harlem plains to the North River by Manhattanville.
                     These ridge of heights, together with those on the lower side of the
                     plains-were covered with woods and a thick underbrush, which rendered assailing
                     the heights a dangerous business.
                  The British troops had advanced, and their line extended from Horn's Hook, over
                     the island, to the Kingsbridge road, between the seventh and eighth
                     mile-stones, close up to Harlem plains. Colonel Knowlton's regiment of New
                     England troops, together with a portion of the third Virginia regiment, which
                     had only arrived at New York from Elizabeth-town that very morning, formed the
                     advance guard of the American army, in the direction of the city, on the
                     heights.
                  Burnham had received permission to attach himself to Colonel Knowlton's command
                     for the present, at his own request, the regiment being formed of selections
                     from all of the New England line—in fact, picked men. He acted as Major—Brown,
                     the second in command, acting as Lieutenant Colonel—Congress, as yet, having
                     made no such appointments in the regiment.
                  The night, as I have before stated, was rainy and dark, and Colonel Knowlton,
                     taking Burnham aside, told him that he felt a disposition to reconnoitre the
                     position of the enemy, and, for that purpose, proposed to him to venture out of
                     the lines. Burnham at once consented, and the two officers passed the outer
                     range of sentries, descending into the plains, a little east of what was known,
                     in the Orderly-book, as the "point of rocks." The rain fell just heavy enough
                     to deaden the sound of their footsteps, and the atmosphere was sufficiently
                     dense to hide them from observation at a very short distance. The British line
                     of sentries extended a little back from the lower heights.
                  In some places, the plains are but two hundred yards across, though they extend
                     directly over the island, in an extensive flat, from the easterly side of the
                     heights. The two friends advanced cautiously and slowly, ascending the heights
                     through the thick bushes, which, in many places, intervened until they stood on
                     the top.
                  Here they could see the camp fires, and hear the hum of voices from the men
                     gathered around. The subject of conversation, however, was sealed to the
                     listeners. The picket guard consisted of Hessian yagers or riflemen, and their
                     chain of sentries extended in an easterly direction towards the river.
                  There was a 
                        familarity
                        familiarity
                      between the Hessian officers and men unknown to the British army, and
                     even the sentinels nearest would now and then join in the conversation carried
                     on around the camp fires.
                  "If we had force enough this picket might be carried," whispered Knowlton to
                     Burnham.
                  "Yes, here, but look yonder, there are men of a different
                     calibre."
                  At no great distance, and meeting the line of the Hessian picket, were to be
                     seen a range of sentries, who fulfilled their duties in silence and caution.
                     Their stately bearing, martial plumes and tartans, bespoke the natives of
                     Caledonia.
                  "I see," replied Knowlton, "they belong to the forty-second, Leslie's regiment
                     of Highlanders."
                  "Yes, formerly called the 'Black Watch,' raised out of the rebellious clans of
                     'forty-five.' I have heard my father speak of them as gallant soldiers,—they
                     served in the old French war, when he served in those campaigns."
                  "Perhaps we may have a chance to try their metal in the morning, Burnham. The
                     dastardly retreat of the militia at Kip's Bay this morning, has disgraced us
                     all, and I burn for the honor of our native soil, to show what we can do."
                  "It is impossible for our army to remain in its present position," said
                     Burnham, "Sir William Howe is crossing his troops from Long Island to Throg's
                     Neck for the purpose of enclosing us upon the island.
                  "No, we cannot remain in our present position long, that is certain, nor is it
                     probable we shall. If I am informed correctly, orders have been already given
                     to select ground in the neighborhood of the Bronx River for the encampment of
                     the main body."
                  "Look again," said Burnham, "these appear to be officers of rank approaching.
                     We must fall back a little further into the bushes.
                  Both knelt down and concealed themselves closer behind the thicket, for they
                     were within a dozen yards of the sentries. Half a dozen officers in the British
                     and Hessian uniforms made their appearance by the side of the nearest
                     camp-fire—the soldiers presented arms and the subalterns received their
                     superiors with great deference.
                  "I think that the enemy's position is a stronger one than we anticipate,
                     General De Heister, but our men can carry them easily, if Sir 
                        Willian
                        William
                      will give us an opportunity."
                  "I think so, General Leslie," said the officer in reply, with a strong German
                     accent, "and we must have a chance to try it."
                  "I have permission to get up a little skirmish when I choose, and I think I am
                     old soldier enough to bring on an engagement if the enemy will only show a
                     little fight in the plains. Have no deserters come into the line during the
                     evening," he said to the subaltern.
                  "None, General, have been reported to me," was the reply.
                  "This is strange, why, I thought, after the events of to-day, we should have
                     been overrun with rebel repenters."
                  "Oh! plenty to-morrow, General, plenty to-morrow, rebels come with daylight to
                     see how bad their ways," said the Hessian General, with a smile.
                  "Now for the party of my gallant forty-second. This way, gentlemen, and you,
                     General De Heister, if the rain has not already completely wet your
                     thighs."
                  "Ah! General, I am too old a soldier to mind a little rain—I served too many
                     campaigns in the seven years' war, in Bohemia, and along the Rhine, where it
                     rained like dirty devils, to mind a little water here. Allons," and the party moved on.
                  The movement of the general officers along the line, made the Hessians, for a
                     few moments, careless of their duty, and Knowlton and Burnham availed
                     themselves of it to advance under the cover of some hedges, until they found
                     themselves completely within the line of sentries.
                  From the tents and camp-fires, it appeared as if the British were in large
                     force across the island. Probably, two brigades of troops, one of British and
                     the other of Hessians, and within reinforcing distance of all the troops in the
                     island. The great fear, on the part of the American Commander, was not for the
                     number of the British army, but for the want of discipline, arms and
                     experience, on the side of his own troops.
                  Their bravery there was no doubt of, but as for their discipline, which often
                     gains battles over courage, no reliance could be placed upon it.
                  "If our men were only as well equipped and trained as the soldiers before us,
                     how quick could we overthrow the invaders of our land, and cut them off to a
                     man."
                  "Yes, but we must take time for that. No fear but it will come in time, Major.
                     We are destined to win our liberties successfully, though you and I may not
                     live through the campaign to bring it about."
                  In this manner, they continued to converse, in a low tone, as they cautiously
                     made their way still further into the enemy's camp, until reaching a clear
                     space of ground so open to the view of the sentries, that further advance was
                     impossible.
                  "It is time for us to think of returning, Colonel. We have been absent from the
                     post over an hour."
                  "Yes, but let us make our path through this grove, it skirts a portion of the
                     British line of sentries, and we can see what is going on there."
                  "Then let me be the guide, Knowlton, I crossed here yesterday, before the
                     enemy's troops reached the ground."
                  They descended the line of heights half way by a track which had evidently been
                     a sheep path, at some former time. The trees and bushes were high enough to
                     give them perfect concealment.
                  When, after five minutes cautious walk, they found themselves near the bottom
                     of the heights, and were about to cross over to their own party, the sound of
                     voices, at a short distance, apparently, attracted their attention. The sound
                     appeared to come from a little ravine, to the left of their path.
                  "Let us advance a little further and listen, Colonel Knowlton," said
                     Burnham.
                  A moment brought them near enough to hear, and they could see, around the dying
                     embers of a fire, some half dozen soldiers.
                  "And when did Major Adair reach here,' said a 
                        grum
                        gruff
                      voice, yet still sufficiently feminine to let the listeners know it
                     proceeded from a woman.
                  "Two days ago. He landed from a frigate from Quebec."
                  "Ha! ha! then he's within my reach, Sergeant."
                  "Yes, but we must be cautious—don't talk so loud, some of the soldiers may be
                     listening."
                  There was something in the tone of this man's voice that sounded familiar to
                     the ears of Burnham, he was certain that he had heard it before.
                  "Has he married that minister's gal he was so furious after up in Canada, and
                     she wouldn't at first stand fire, as you tell'd me?"
                  "No, the girl would have nothing to do with him. She loves, it seems, a Yankee
                     officer, no friend of mine, or yours either, Mrs. Gatchell, for he's the
                     superior officer of that cursed Ki Lane."
                  "Oh! ho! is he—that's enough—what's his name?"
                  "Burnham"
                  "Oh! yes, I've hearn of him—be still, the sentries are coming this way, and I
                     guess I'll crawl under my tent, for I've sold out pretty well, for a
                     camp-follower, to-day and night. In the morning, early, Sergeant, when you are
                     off duty, come and see me. I'll get a little—something warm for your breakfast,
                     and we'll talk this matter over."
                  Knowlton had not heard this conversation, for Burnham ventured nearer than he
                     did, he having a personal interest in the matter. The Sergeant, he knew, was
                     Watkins, and when the two officers returned to the American camp, which they
                     reached in safety, it was some hours before Burnham could get to sleep, so
                     filled was he with thoughts of the meagre conversation he had heard.
                  The next morning, the 16th of September, the sun rose bright and gladdening
                     upon the plains which separated the advance guards of the armies. Considerable
                     of a stir was seen in the British lines, and about noon, a body of skirmishers,
                     consisting of Hessian Yagers and Highlanders, descended into the plains, and
                     commenced firing at a long distance upon the American lines.
                  Knowlton gave orders for a small party of his men to descend also, and continue
                     the skirmish, and very soon, a hot fire took place, which continued for some
                     time, with the loss of a number killed, on both sides. The British commander
                     kept reinforcing his men, until finally the number of combatants amounted to
                     several hundred. Washington, whose quarters were at a distance of a mile and a
                     half from the advanced posts, as he stated in his letter to Congress, narrating
                     the affair, heard the firing, and rode to the scene of action. General Leslie
                     had just sent into the plains a battalion of Highlanders and a larger
                     detachment of Hessians, determining, if possible, to bring on a general
                     engagement.
                  Washington immediately ordered Knowlton with his regiment, to manœuvre and
                     attack the forces on the left flank, and Major Leitch to advance on the right
                     with his regiment of Virginians. Both regiments went down into the plains, and
                     advanced briskly against the enemy. The troops were so eager they hardly waited
                     to get in the flanks of the enemy, but charged in front under a brisk fire.
                  Knowlton, who was a man of tall stature, had mounted his horse at the bottom of
                     the hill, and was plainly distinguishable from the heights, as he advanced at
                     the head of his men close up to the line of the Highlanders.
                  "That man is one of the most promising of our officers," said Washington to his
                     staff, as he looked down upon the scene.
                  "Yes, sir, and how gallantry he leads forward his men," replied Reed, who stood
                     near.
                  The sounds of the Scotch bag-pipe from the opposite hill, were wafted over the
                     valleys, as the drums and fifes of the American column played Yankee
                     Doodle.
                  The sight was a beautiful one of a battle on a miniature scale. Although the
                     forces on both sides, actually engaged, didn't exceed a thousand men, there was
                     the attack, the defence, the fire and the charge.
                  In a short time it became evident that the British officers were giving ground
                     and falling back towards the heights covered by a few pieces of their
                     artillery. The voice of Knowlton, cheering on his men, was distinctly heard
                     upon the heights by Washington. Presently he was seen to fall from his horse, a
                     ball had passed through his body, and the gallant soldier was mortally wounded
                     just as the cry of victory rose. On rushed his men, the Highlanders gave way
                     before the furious charge, and rushed back to the heights, where they met a
                     re-inforcement, and the battle was renewed.
                  As Knowlton was borne off the field, his son, a boy of fourteen, rushed to his
                     side.
                  "Go back, my son," said the dying officer—"go back to your rank and do your
                     duty—you can do me no good now!"*
                  Burnham, who was near by when he fell, pushed forward with his column into the
                     midst of the fight, and fiercely was it waged when the Highlanders were
                     re-inforced. Leitch, with his Virginians, had nobly performed their duty; they
                     drove back the Hessians on the opposite flank, and were advancing rapidly, when
                     he received two balls in his body, and was borne off the field senseless.
                  The command now devolved upon Burnham. Nerved to desperation at the loss of
                     their two commanders, the troops advanced at a rapid charge, driving their
                     enemy close up to the base of their works. Perceiving that they had done
                     enough, and not liking to make a general action for so slight a cause,
                     Washington sent word for the line to move back to the American side of the
                     hills. Both parties withdrew simultaneously from the plains—the English General
                     surprised at the check he had received, and the Americans pleased that they had
                     done something to retrieve the disaster of the previous day.
                  The gallant Knowlton died in the course of the afternoon, and Major Leitch
                     survived but a day. They were buried, side by side, beneath a hill near the
                     lines.
                  Washington, in general orders, bestowed great merit upon the troops engaged,
                     and spoke of Knowlton as "a gallant soldier, who would have done honor to any
                     cause." The parole, next day, was "Leitch," in remembrance of the brave
                     Virginian, who had also fallen in the common cause.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXI.
                  It was but a few days after the skirmish, narrated in the last chapter, when
                     Burnham received orders from the Commander-in-Chief to go upon a secret
                     expedition. The order ran thus:—
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 HEADQUARTERS, Harlem Heights, Sept. 20th,
                                       1776.
                                 
                              
                              SIR—You will take command of a detachment already detailed for
                                 service, with the proper subalterns, and proceed, as soon as
                                 possible, into Westchester county, for the purpose of arresting
                                 several disaffected persons, therein named, a list of whom will be
                                 furnished you by the Adjutant General. It is necessary that
                                 discretionary power be granted you, and, in case of attempted
                                 flight, on the part of those to be arrested, you will pursue such
                                 ultimate measures as circumstances may need. It is understood that
                                 a band of wretches, attached to neither side, are in the habit of
                                 plundering the residents of the county, indiscriminately, in some
                                 cases proceeding to murder.
                              Should you meet with any such parties, make severe examples of the
                                 leaders on the spot, taking good care that they are really guilty
                                 of the offences charged. Trusting in your judgment to do right in
                                 the premises, and your speedy return to camp with the
                                 prisoners,
                              
                                 I am, &c.,
                                 GEO. WASHINGTON.
                                 
                                    
                                       To Major Harry Burnham.
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  The detachment consisted of fifty chosen mounted men, well equipped and armed,
                     with a Captain and two Lieutenants. Burnham received the order at night, and
                     the next morning, at daybreak, he was on the Kingsbridge road, to fulfil his
                     orders. Crossing Harlem River, he met at the outposts the guide that the
                     Adjutant General told him verbally, would be in waiting to meet and lead him to
                     the residences of the disaffected persons named. Burnham was in high spirits,
                     for the service was a confidential and 
                        imporant
                        important
                      one.
                  The officer in command at the post on the Kingsbridge side, politely asked
                     Burnham and his brother officers to take a little refreshment, and Burnham
                     dismounted, more for the purpose of inquiring into the character of his guide,
                     whose appearance was anything but prepossessing.
                  After partaking of a little of the cheer offered, he asked the commanding
                     officer if he knew anything about the man.
                  "No more, I presume, than yourself. He came here last night, with a permit from
                     the Adjutant General to remain until your detachment came up. I tried to get
                     him in a little conversation, but gave up the job, he seemed so stupid and
                     foolish."
                  "I cannot say that I like his appearance at all," answered Burnham, looking
                     through the window at the man, who stood a little distance off, by the
                     road-side, with his eyes fixed upon the ground.
                  "No, Lavater would not choose him for a companion, if countenance is any
                     indication of intelligence and amiability."
                  "To horse, gentlemen," said Burnham to his companions—"the sun is fairly in the
                     heavens, and we have a good day's work before us. Good morning, Captain, may we
                     soon greet you once more."
                  "Success to you."
                  "Come, Mr. Guide, mount. I suppose you have a horse?"
                  "Yes," was the man's reply to Burnham, very quick, but sullenly. He went to a
                     field, whistled, and a shaggy pony, with a sheepskin on his back in place of a
                     saddle, and ready bridled, galloped up to his master. The guide soon mounted,
                     and the party took the main road in the direction of Phillipsburgh.
                  Burnham had now a better chance to examine the man than before. His dress was
                     that of a laboring countryman—his head surrounded by a singular shaped catskin
                     cap. He took this off once, which enabled Burnham to regard him attentively.
                     From the crown of his skull, his head sloped singularly to the eyebrow, so
                     that, if it had not been for his thick, shocky red hair, full one-third of the
                     head would have been a continuous forehead.
                  His nose, from appearance, had originally been somewhat puggish, but a blow of
                     some kind had broken the bridge, and thus his nasal organ, or what remained of
                     it, was all pug. His lips were thick and parted, so that both his lower and
                     upper teeth projected out, giving the lower part of his face an appearance of
                     singular ferocity. The color of his eyes was hard to tell, for the red eyebrows
                     were very thick, and, when he looked at you, which was but seldom, the eyes
                     quick, but only half open, remained in deep shadow. In stature, he was of the
                     middle height, and of a broad and muscular make. Such was the appearance of the
                     guide that Burnham now addressed:
                  "Do you belong in Westchester County?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Was you born in it?"
                  "So I heard."
                  "Heard—that is a singular answer—don't you know?"
                  "How can any one know where he was born? People don't come into the world
                     men."
                  "You are short in your answers, my good fellow."
                  "Good fellow. I never heard much good about me."
                  "I should judge not—but hark'ye, these answers are not the thing. You are now
                     under my control, and I expect straight replies. In what part of the country
                     did you last live?"
                  "Near Byran pond."
                  "Who selected you to be the guide of this expedition?"
                  "I don't know as I'm bound to answer that question."
                  "An honest man would not be ashamed to answer such a question, besides it is my duty to know it."
                  "You've got your duty and I mine," replied the guide, his eyes glistening with
                     a strange expression as he spoke.
                  "I will have no more of this. Troop! halt. Lieutenant Waters, you will take
                     half a dozen men and return to the camp with this man. He is either a knave or
                     a fool, and I want no such guide."
                  The man looked about him, and perceiving that Burnham was really in earnest,
                     said:
                  "You are a most unreasonable sojer, I reckon. There, read that, if you be so
                     mighty crooked about me."
                  The guide handed Burnham a written paper, which stated that the bearer, Simon
                     Westervelt, was a good and faithful whig, and knew well who was disaffected in
                     the county of Westchester. That he was now in the service of the Provincial
                     Congress, and that the Commander-in-Chief might rely faithfully upon him in all
                     services required. This was signed by the Secretary of the Provincial Congress
                     of New York. It bore date something like a month past, but was countersigned by
                     one of the Commander-in-Chief's aids, under date of a few days back.
                  Burnham examined it attentively, and, although all appeared correct, still he
                     had doubts of the faithfulness of the guide. The latter, after receiving the
                     paper back, said, coolly:
                  "I suppose it's all right now?"
                  "It appears so," was the short answer of Burnham; "but where is the first
                     arrest to be made?"
                  "We'll keep up the road, if you like, as far as Saw-Mill River. I guess that
                     Squire Hagarman may as well be looked after first."
                  "Hagarman, Hagarman," said Burnham, taking the list of names from his
                     pocket—"yes, I see the names of Isaac Hagarman and his son, William."
                  "Two of the greatest tories in the country," said the guide.
                  "What is the distance to their residence?"
                  "About six miles."
                  The guide rode a little ahead, but not beyond the reach of the pistols of the
                     first file, to whom Burnham gave orders that, if the man attempted to leave the
                     party, and did not halt when called upon, to shoot him down at once He
                     expressed to his brother officers some doubts respecting the character of the
                     guide, and that it was necessary he should be closely watched.
                  The party rode briskly on, and, in a short time, passed through the town of
                     Philips-burgh, which the guide seemed anxious to avoid as much as possible. Of
                     his own accord, he rode to the side of Burnham, and said:
                  "There's a good many in this place may suspect us, and give warning—I think
                     we'd better not halt."
                  "I do not intend to, Mr. Guide," was the answer.
                  Burnham noted that several of the villagers whom they met, whilst they saluted
                     him courteously though a stranger, turned a suspicious look upon his guide.
                     They were soon out of the place and turned up a narrow road which led from the
                     village on the east bank of the stream, which bore the not very beautiful name
                     of Saw Mill River. The banks of the stream were shady and green, and the
                     prospect around pleasantly rural.
                  "Westervelt," said Burnham, in a loud voice. The guide paid no attention.
                  "Westervelt," he called still louder, but there was no reply, and he galloped
                     up and placed his hand upon the man's shoulder, who started and turned hastily
                     round.
                  "Oh! it's you, Captain," he said, recovering himself.
                  "Yes. So it seems, Mr. Guide, you don't know your own name?"
                  "Name, how?"
                  "What is it?"
                  "Why you saw it on the paper, didn't you?"
                  "Yes, I read a name that you are not familiar with. And to speak plainly, Mr.
                     Guide, I doubt if it be your name."
                  This was spoken in so stern a tone, that the guide flinched a little, and did
                     not appear exactly at his ease.
                  "Oh! Captain, what a queer man you are. It's strange if a man that has lived
                     forty years in the world don't know his own name. I guess Simon Westervelt,
                     knows his."
                  "Why did you not answer, when I called you twice by your name."
                  "Why you see, Captain, there's quite a family of us Westervelts, and we go by
                     our christian names. If you'd called Simon now, I reckon my eyes would have
                     turned quick enough, though I be a little deaf."
                  "A consummate rascal," muttered Burnham, in a low tone. How far off is
                     Hagarman's place?"
                  "You see, Captain, that red-roofed house, between the trees yonder, on the hill
                     about a mile off?"
                  "I do."
                  "That's Squire Hagarman's, and he's well to do in the world, I tell ye, but
                     he's mighty fond of gold, and that's the reason I reckon that he thinks the
                     King's side safest and best."
                  "There are too many of his way of thinking, for the country, Mr. Simon
                     Westervelt."
                  "So, so I hear say—there must be two sides to everything, Captain"
                  "Some are inclined to both sides," replied Burnham.
                  They now had reached an open space, from which the house was fully in view at a
                     quarter of a mile distance, and from the house a party of horsemen could also
                     easily be seen, as they wound along the banks of the river. A field stretched
                     down from the house, on one side to the creek, and two or three children were
                     playing there. One of them happened to look up and seeing the horsemen
                     approach, although still at a considerable distance, gave a shout, and rushed
                     towards the house, which they entered. In a moment, the discharge of a gun was
                     heard, and then another immediately after, as if a signal. Then two shots were
                     heard in reply, at a distance, apparently, on the other side of the creek.
                  "Push on at a gallop, men," said Burnham, "these guns indicate some private
                     signal. Come, Mr. Guide, no lagging, keep between the files, we want you more
                     than ever now."
                  In five minutes the dragoons reached the house, which they immediately
                     surrounded. Burnham, dismounting, entered the dwelling.
                  It was the kitchen of the farm-house, such an one as is found in any well-to-do
                     farmer's house along the Hudson. Two black females were hard at work scouring
                     up the pewter plates, and several children, of the same color, were playing
                     with the smaller children of their master or mistress. Although slavery existed
                     then in the colony, it was merely nominal, for the few blacks, in every
                     farm-house, were considered part of the family.
                  When Burnham entered, the clank of his steel sword-scabbard along the floor
                     caused a general excitement, and the children, with screams, ran up and
                     sheltered themselves behind the women.
                  "This is Squire Hagarman's house, I believe?" said Burnham.
                  "Yes, yes, sir," replied one of the women, with a stammer, "but master be'ent
                     home now."
                  "How long since he went away?"
                  "I'll ask Missis directly," was the reply, and the speaker went into another
                     apartment, which led off from the kitchen. She soon returned, and said: "Please
                     to walk in and see Missis."
                  Burnham followed the domestic into the parlor, or best room in the mansion,
                     where he found a good-looking woman, a little past the middle-age; twin girls,
                     not more than seventeen years old, stood by her side, and, from their
                     appearance, daughters of the mistress of the house
                  "Mrs. Hagarman, I presume?" said Burnham, as he removed his cap and bowed low
                     to the party.
                  "Yes, sir," was the half-alarmed reply of the elder female.
                  "Is your husband near home, Mrs. Hagarman?"
                  "Not very near, I think, at this time," was the reply, "and I sincerely
                        hope so."
                  "Why so, madam?"
                  "Ah! sir, I probably know what brings you, with such a company, here. This
                     cruel war, that is now rushing over the land, separating husbands from their
                     wives, and children from their parents, is a terrible affliction. I know, from
                     your uniform, that you are not on the king's side, and my husband is, of which,
                     in his pride of heart, he too often makes a stubborn boast. You are here, sir,
                     to arrest him. Is it not so?"
                  "To be frank, madam, I came for that purpose."
                  "I thought as much. Thank God! he heard the signal."
                  "My duty will now compel me to send in pursuit."
                  As he said this, he beckoned from the window to the officer next in command.
                     His orders were brief, and the officer left, taking with him the Lieutenant and
                     twenty men of the party. On reaching the road, they separated, and took
                     different routes.
                  "Oh! sir, you will not injure our father?" said one of the young girls, in an
                     entreating tone, as Burnham withdrew from the window.
                  "I hope there will be no necessity, my young miss. There certainly will be none
                     if resistance is not made."
                  "But why should he be arrested more than our neighbors—are they not equally
                     guilty in opinions?" said the mother.
                  "Although it is not my duty to enter into any explanations, my good lady, I
                     will do so. It becomes necessary, for example sake, to arrest such as endanger
                     the cause of our country's independence. Sorry I am, that your husband has
                     joined the side of the oppressor—since it is so, he must be arrested, and kept
                     from doing injury, when he will not benefit."
                  "And thus we suffer. A day or two ago, a party of plunderers, attached to no
                     side, drove off from the meadows our oxen and cows. To-day comes an order to
                     arrest my poor husband, from the Congress side, and to-morrow, perhaps, the
                     royalists will be in pursuit of him. Oh! evil times, evil times!"
                  "As far as regards the plunderers, Mrs. Hagarman, if you can give me any clue
                     to their whereabouts, I will pursue them, and hang up the leaders before your
                     own door. My orders are strict to deal with these men. Can you give me any
                     information respecting the party?"
                  "If I could, what good would it do us. We should then be marked out for certain 
                        detruction
                        destruction
                     . Our fields would be robbed of what little they now possess, and our
                     dwellings burnt over our heads. No, it is of no avail, we must suffer, it is
                     the Lord's will."
                  "Your husband has only to take the oath of allegiance to the Congress and the
                     country, and he will be molested by none. Surely he loves the soil on which he
                     was born."
                  "No one possessing honesty can be a hypocrite. My husband is honest in
                     supporting the royal side, and he loves his native land too. May the protection
                     of a higher power than Congress be over him."
                  "That power already smiles upon our dawning liberties, my good madam. Through
                        His aid we shall be free."
                  "My poor, poor husband!" she sobbed.
                  "Have no fear for his personal safety, madam, if he makes no resistance.
                     Nothing will happen to him when arrested. If he refuses to take the oath of
                     allegiance, he will be merely sent farther back into the country, or permitted
                     to go into the lines as he may choose."
                  "But if he should resist when overtaken?"
                  "Do not ask that—he certainly will make none, if—"
                  Before Burnham could finish the sentence, there was a shout from the dragoons
                     on the lawn, and a random discharge of pistols, he rushed at once from the room
                     the instant he heard the sound, to the scene of action.
                  When Burnham reached the lawn, he saw the guide some distance off, apparently
                     in pursuit of an object, at full speed. Suspecting treachery on the part of the
                     guide, a few of the troopers had followed, and, not halting when called upon,
                     they had fired upon him.
                  Burnham hesitated for a moment, to take Westervelt, dead or alive, when the latter
                     suddenly stopped, jumped from his horse, and disappeared behind a stone wall.
                     The suspense was soon over, when he was seen again to cross it, bringing with
                     him a negro, and both were soon in the presence of the commanding officers.
                  "Who is this, Westervelt?"
                  "Why, he's one of the farm niggers, about the place, and I didn't like his
                     running away. When I called him, he wouldn't stop, so I after him."
                  "And you well knew," said a female voice, from the door of the house— it was
                     Mrs. Hagarman—"that Jack was deaf and dumb. Ruffians, like you, disgrace any
                     side to which they belong."
                  "Yes, yes, I know all about him, ma'am. Jack didn't use to be deaf and dumb,
                     once upon a time, and I guess he might be made to hear now, if a horsewhip was
                     well laid on."
                  "Was he born so, madam?" inquired Burnham of the mistress.
                  "No, sir. About six years ago, one afternoon he was at work in the meadows
                     yonder, when a storm came up. A flash of lightning struck the spot, killing
                     outright two men that were working with him. Jack recovered, but with the loss
                     of speech and hearing. His intellect is injured, but he is good-natured and
                     harmless."
                  "He seemed to know well enough that I was after him. What made him
                     play the part of a sneak, and crawl up near us, behind the stone wall?"
                  "What made him do so?" was the angry reply of Mrs. Hagarman—"fear. A few days
                     ago, a parcel of plunderers robbed us, and, not content with stealing from the
                     field, they tied up poor Jack to a tree, and whipped him till he was senseless.
                     No wonder that the poor wretch runs like a child from every band that
                     approaches."
                  The poor black seemed to half understand what was said; he rubbed his back
                     violently, distorted his countenance, and mumbled over some unintelligible
                     idiotic gibberish.
                  "Let the man go," said Burnham to the guide, in an angry tone. "We do not make
                     war upon such beings"
                  "Well, just as you say, Mister Major, if anything happens, I ain't to
                     blame."
                  The negro, glad to regain his liberty, immediately darted off and took as
                     before his position behind the stone wall out of harm's way, but looking round
                     him very anxiously. Burnham withdrew from the house a little way and beckoned
                     the guide to come near him.
                  "Have you any surmise where the master of this place can be found? It is plain
                     he is not in the neighborhood, or his wife could not display so much
                     coolness."
                  "I can't tell, unless he's t'other side of the river. He's heard the signal,
                     that's plain, and before we could get in fair pursuit, he'd be up among the
                     hills where we could'nt find him in a week's search."
                  "But I thought you knew the haunts and retreats of all the tories in the
                     county."
                  "I did, for they thought I was one of 'em two months ago, but they change their
                     quarters like foxes if they're hunted after."
                  "You was thought to be with them, you say, two months ago?" said Burnham, with
                     surprise.
                  "Certain, Mr. Major, I was. Didn't I know all about their tricks and movements?
                     Didn't I get all their secrets? Didn't I know the letters that General Howe
                     sent up to their leaders from Staten Island? I reckon I did, and I reckon the
                     provincial committee knew all about it, that is, what they got from me."
                  "And so," said Burnham, with a little disgust, "you think it right to betray
                     your confederates in this manner, do you?"
                  "Why not? I'm a patriot now, I've seen the error of my ways, and go for the
                     country and the whole country—nothing less nor shorter, Mister Major."
                  There was a singularity in the manner in which the guide spoke, that yet
                     continued Burnham's doubts.
                  "Where does the next nearest of the party live to whose residence you are to
                     guide me?"
                  "Let me see, the next —oh! Josiah Rapelje—he's a regular king's man, and
                     raisin' a company, they say. He lives over toward White Plains."
                  "It is nearly time for the parties sent out to return, and I see no need of
                     lingering about here, when the game has flown. As soon as they join us we will
                     proceed to the other place, according to your guidance, Westervelt. A word in
                     your ear. I know that you think me suspicious of you—I
                        am, in spite of your certificate, and if 1 find you dealing double, I
                     will hang you up at the first tree, and take my chance for a court
                     martial."
                  "Ha? ha! ho! ho!" roared the guide, merrily. "You are game, Mister Major, but
                     the acorn an't sprouted that's to grow up my gallows. No, no, and if you should
                     try to hang me, I wouldn't answer for your life, if a thousand men were about
                     you."
                  "Honest men fear no warnings, Westervelt, and what I say to you, I mean to
                     fulfil."
                  "We'll see, we'll see, Mister Major," and when the guide turned his head from
                     Burnham the scowl which came over it, signified the spirit that dwelt
                     within.
                  Burnham gave orders to his men to dismount, for it was getting towards the hour
                     of noon, and refresh themselves, it being his intention to proceed the instant
                     he was joined by the party he had dispatched to search the immediate
                     neighborhood.
                  A polite personal invitation was given by Mrs. Hagarman to Burnham, to partake
                     of dinner, which he accepted, and with his remaining Lieutenant entered the
                     mansion, leaving particular orders with the Sergeants to keep a keen look out,
                     videttes being posted at some distance.
                  An excellent and substantial dinner was placed before them, and the matron and
                     her daughters seemed to strive with mutual ardor to please their guests, who
                     had come on so unpleasant an errand, for the purpose of making prisoners of
                     father and son.
                  "I am sorry, my good madam," said Burnham, "that upon me has fallen this
                     disagreeable duty. I can assure you that it would give me pain to be the cause
                     of one moment's pang to you or your's—a soldier's duty is sometimes harsh."
                  "I believe you, sir, but is there no chance of a reconciliation between the
                     people and the king? Oh! how ardently I pray for it."
                  "The King and his ministers have gone too far for that, it is now too late. The
                     war will be a long and bloody one, and the good and the bad will alike suffer,
                     before the contest is ended and our liberties secured."
                  "But surely Congress will not murder my father and brother," said one of the
                     daughters, "even if they are taken prisoners?"
                  "No, no, if they take the oath of allegiance to the thirteen colonies, they
                     will secure its protection. If not I fear the fortunes of war, as far as the
                     comforts I see around me, will find its way to your home, for this pleasant
                     valley must become the theatre of conflict."
                  "It is hard."
                  "Yes, madam, it is hard. The King's side have taken a bitter mode
                     of vengeance in waging penalties and exactions from the peaceable disposed of
                     our party, in all places where they have gained the ascendancy, and our rulers
                     in self protection, are now determined that all inhabitants dwelling in places
                     in our possession shall take the oath of allegiance or go over to the
                     enemy."
                  "My husband's brothers and my own relations are nearly all republicans—cannot
                     their conduct and faithfulness protect my husband?"
                  "I am not the judge. Depend upon it, that whatever I can do personally to
                     ameliorate his captivity, should he be arrested, will be extended to the
                     utmost."
                  The sound of a trumpet was heard, which caused the officers to rise, and they
                     perceived, approaching through the lawn gate, their companions. The commander
                     of the detachment hastened to meet Burnham and make his report. At the same
                     time, the Lieutenant, who had accompanied him, was assisted into the house by
                     two men, he having been thrown from his horse, and so severely injured in one
                     of his legs that he could not walk.
                  From the report, it appeared that they had been within a circle of five or six
                     miles, and that they had seen no suspicious characters, or persons they thought
                     proper to arrest. From a farmer at work in a field, they were informed that the
                     night before, a band of marauders had burned the house of a small farmer in the
                     neighborhood, who was himself absent as a militiamen in the American camp.
                     That, not content with this, they had also burnt the dwelling of a tory,
                     declaring that they belonged to no side, but were independent of every body. In
                     number, they were about thirty, and well armed.
                  Their informant did not know their exact place of rendezvous, but he believed
                     they had a place in the mountains, but they were so cautious and watchful in
                     all their movements, it was a hard thing to keep track of them; nor did he know
                     any one that would be willing to guide a party to their haunts, because if
                     unsuccessful, the guide would never be sure of his life again at any moment.
                     This was the substance of the report of the commander of the first party sent
                     out.
                  On their return, the Lieutenant's horse became restive and unmanageable,
                     through fright at something in the road, and threw his rider. On examination,
                     the bruise was found to be very severe, though, fortunately, no bones were
                     broken. Mrs. Hagarman and her daughter vied with each other in bestowing those
                     kindnesses which women alone can bestow on those in pain and anguish.
                  At the earnest request of the females, it was thought best that the injured
                     officer should remain where he was for the present, and as, from appearances,
                     Burnham might be some days in accomplishing his orders, he would be of no
                     service, but a detriment to the command. For these reasons, the Lieutenant was
                     left in kind hands
                  The sun had passed its meridian, when the trumpeter's note gave the signal for
                     the troops to march, and Burnham took leave of the mother and daughters, with
                     the understanding that the party was to return by the same road for their
                     comrade.
                  "Now, Mr. Guide, lead us as quickly as possible to the place of this Rapelje,
                     we must make some arrests to-night. At this rate, we shall not get through in a
                     fortnight."
                  "Well, I'll make your party trot as fast as they'll go. Come, Satan, let out
                     your speed, and show the Major what you can do."
                  The pony seemed to understand what his master said, for he set off at a rapid
                     rate, and before many minutes had elapsed, Burnham was surprised, on looking
                     around, to perceive that he was the only one who had kept up with the
                     guide.
                  "Well, Westervelt, or Sim, as you call yourself, your pony is, in truth, an
                     animal of great speed. I thought I was a little better mounted than any one
                     hereabouts, but I must acknowledge that I am fairly met, though not beaten.
                     Halt a moment for the troop to come up."
                  "Ah! Mister Major, you haven't seen half of Satan's pace yet. Like the great
                     rogue of all he's named after, he can get over his space of ground in a short
                     time."
                  "Is he for sale, Mr. Guide?"
                  "No, no, not he Besides, he wouldn't obey any one but me. I'm the only one that
                     can mount Satan's back."
                  "I am glad to hear that Satan has a master at last, he has roamed long enough
                     about the country—see, since you have got him under you, that you keep him in
                     check."
                  "Well, Mr. Major, the Satan you mean is a little harder character than my pony,
                     and he's got his agents in many places, look out you don't meet some of
                     'em."
                  "That is what I fear, Mr. Guide, and you perceive I keep a close watch upon
                     you"
                  "Humph! much good may that do you, but I don't think it will." The latter part
                     of the sentence he muttered to himself.
                  By this time the troop had come up, and at a smart pace they followed their
                     commander and the guide. Burnham was silent, but kept a watchful eye upon the
                     movements of Westervelt, the guide.
                  "Did you not see, Major," said his second officer in command, "a man pass just
                     now into that clump of trees yonder."
                  "No," was the answer.
                  "I think he had a musket, for the sun glittered tered bright on something he held, he was in
                     sight but an instant."
                  Burnham turned to look at the guide, who was gazing anxiously in the direction
                     pointed out by the officer. The grove of trees jutted out as if it were from a
                     forest that extended far back into the hills, and offered a safe cover for any
                     number of men to conceal themselves. The party passed on without annoyance,
                     though Burnham gave orders for the troop to close up, so as to be ready in case
                     of an attack. The spot was remembered again, for what followed at a subsequent
                     period.
                  At White Plains they arrested, without any trouble, Rapelje and several others,
                     whose names were on the proscribed list, and, as the night was drawing in, it
                     was thought best to take up quarters in the village. The inn, kept by a
                     conspicuous whig, furnished good quarters for the officers, and as the men were
                     too numerous for the house, they found comfortable barracks in the barn.
                  The prisoners were treated with all lenity and kindness, but a guard was
                     stationed at the door of the room they occupied, and the tavern placed under
                     martial law for the time being. The guide retired early, giving as a reason,
                     "that his pony, Satan, had ridden so fast during the day, that in the morning,
                     before 
                        sunsise
                        sunrise
                     , he must rub him down well for the coming day's labor."
                  After seeing that the guards were all stationed, and giving the countersign,
                     Burnham retired to his bed, somewhat fatigued with the day's labor, and was
                     soon fast asleep.
                  It was now some two hours later, perhaps a little past midnight, when the
                     window of the room in which the guide slept was slowly raised, and the head of
                     Westervelt peeped out into the darkness. There was no moon, but the night was
                     calm, and save the rattle of the sentinel's arms, at some little distance, as
                     he wheeled on his march, all was still.
                  The room of Westervelt was on the second floor, but still at no great height
                     from the ground, and presently his figure darkened the window, and he dropped
                     as gently as possible on the grass below.
                  Crawling slowly along, Westervelt, or Sim, as we shall call him, with
                     snake-like sinuosity, reached, unperceived, some currant bushes which skirted
                     one portion of the plot of ground in the centre of which stood the tavern. This
                     shelter screened him from the observation of the guard, who passed by on his
                     rounds.
                  As soon as an opportunity offered he left his hiding place and struck across a
                     meadow. The situation and path by which he went seemed to be well known to him.
                     In five minutes time he was out of hearing and beyond pursuit, even had his
                     absence been discovered. The meadow stretched to the base of a hill, which Sim
                     reached, and commenced ascending. After half an hour's toil, by a path hardly
                     discernible by daylight, he came to a crosspath, the position of which he
                     ascertained more by feeling for some particular landmark than any other way.
                     Down this path he sped as fast as the underbrush would permit him, until he
                     came to a log shanty, such as is hastily put up by the watchers of a charcoal
                     burning. Sim gave three knocks against the door which elicited a growl from
                     some our within.
                  "Open, open," said Sim; "I've but little time to spare. Open, Jack or Peter,
                     either of you."
                  The rough door, which had been braced inside by an oaken bar, was opened, and
                     Sim stood inside of the hut.
                  "Hello, Sim, how are you? We've been on the look-out for you these two days,"
                     said the man who had opened the door.
                  "Light up a little, Pete; take a brand out of the fire, if nothing else is
                     handy, and give me something to drink, for this night, tramping over the
                     meadows and through the woods, isn't very pleasant, particularly if your neck
                     might be stretched when found out."
                  "There, drink," said Pete, handing him a bottle; "and what is the news?"
                  "I want to hear the news. When did the band meet last?"
                  "They separated only an hour ago. Fifteen or twenty, with the Captain, have
                     gone down the road, to pick up a few stragglers in the morning, should there be
                     any travelling."
                  "When do you come together again?"
                  "At noon, to-morrow."
                  "Then I'm in time. Are they to meet here?"
                  "Yes. Underhill was chosen the new Captain to-day."
                  "Underhill Captain. Why, where is Joe Weeks?"
                  "Got a shot through the body in a little skirmish, near Morrisiana, with some
                     Continentals. He is not dead yet, but he is a gone goose, the doctor says."
                  "Well, now, my business, Pete, is short. I've passed muster with the committee
                     of our colony Congress, and they take me to be a first-rate whig, as the gang
                     knows. Yesterday, I was sent to guide a Major and fifty men to arrest all the
                     leading tories in the county. Some of 'em are our friends, and some arn't. Now,
                     to-morrow a blow must be struck, for I can't pass in disguise much longer. You
                     are certain the gang meet to-morrow noon?"
                  "Yes, very certain. They've got a move in view."
                  "Well, this must be done, anyway. To-morrow, say about two, I shall be with the
                     party of troopers, and will so arrange it that we reach the grove, just above
                     the cross-roads, at that time. Let Underhill ambush the woods in that vicinity,
                     and I'll lead the party in, making the usual signal. We can cut off the most of
                     the party, and release the prisoners. Those that are against us, we can take
                     vengeance on."
                  "You say there is fifty men in the party? I don't think the gang can muster as
                     many, and your party are all sojers."
                  "Never mind that. I'll see that they get into the bear's den, where our folks
                     can take the whole of them, or shoot them off like black birds. Besides, unless
                     it is done, we are not safe."
                  "Well, Sim, I 'spose it must do. I'll tell Underhill, and we can carry it by
                     vote, safe and sure, on your side. So rest certain."
                  Some other conversation took place, of minor importance, and Sim soon after
                     succeeded in gaining the inn, before the day began to break, and, by means of a
                     post, reached his room through the window, his absence unknown to any one at
                     the tavern.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXII.
                  We must now return to some minor events connected with the story, transacting
                     in the city of New York. The British army had occupied the city on the 15th of
                     September, and held full possession up to Harlem Plains.
                  On the night of that day, and it was Sabbath day night, the parlor of a large
                     house in Queen street (now Pearl) was occupied by two females. The elder, whose
                     sharp and wrinkled features not only bespoke age, but a temper of no ordinary
                     fury when aroused, has already been described to our readers.
                  Her companion was a fair young girl, whose age certainly did not exceed
                     fifteen, if as much, yet still, the expression of her peaceful and gentle
                     features bore the unmistakeable marks of a mind quick and sagacious beyond her
                     years. There are such faces, which the most ordinary observer, if endowed with
                     any reflection, never fail to judge correctly.
                  The room was one, from its appearance and the remains of costly furniture, that
                     had been abandoned by its owners or possessors in great haste. They must have
                     been, too, of the wealthy class, for everything around was of superior style,
                     not to say extravagance, for that day.
                  The ceiling was high, and the walls magnificently papered with hangings of
                     violet and gold, a style just introduced in the dwellings of the wealthier
                     colonists, who resided in the larger cities. The fire-place was not surrounded
                     with Dutch china tiles, adorned with scripture pieces, the usual ornament, but
                     both mantel and side pieces were of carved wood, executed with great taste and
                     beauty, and of a superior workmanship, far more so than could be done in the
                     colonies.
                  An old-fashioned sideboard, of very large size, occupied one end of the room,
                     and, by the looks of the drawers, had been forcibly opened. The carpet had been
                     half torn 
                        foom
                        from
                      the floor, and, from the confused and scattered appearance of the
                     furniture generally, it seemed that the occupants must have fled in great
                     haste, while preparing to carry away their valuables.
                  A large fire was blazing in the chimney, but how fed? From the remnants of
                     black walnut and mahogany furniture, and the high backed oaken chairs, that lay
                     in profusion around, by the elder woman. The young girl looked on with a
                     saddened expression of countenance, as, from time to time the old woman broke
                     and threw on the fire a chair, with as little thought as if it had been a
                     shapeless stick.
                  At length, a kettle of some dimensions, that had been placed on the fire, began
                     to simmer, next to bubble, and the curling steam from the spout found its way
                     with a noisy vent, much to the gratification of Widow Gatchell, who had watched
                     for this movement on the part of the contents of the kettle, as from time to
                     time she put on additional fuel.
                  "There, Maggy dear, it boils at last, and I reckon we'll have all to ourselves
                     alone, for a half hour, anyhow. Come, my little pink of pinks, just throw a
                     cloth over the stand—you'll find a clean one in that big four-legged chest, or
                     whatsomever you call it, yonder, for they was so mighty skeart, they didn't
                     even get their linen things away."
                  "I do not like to, grandmother," she answered, in a soft voice, yet almost with
                     a shudder.
                  "Don't like to? Well, that's pretty, I think. Well, it's just so—this bringing
                     up poor girls to be ladies don't answer, nohow. Come, come, child, stir
                     yourself."
                  "How can I, grandmother, touch anything here How kindly have I been treated by
                     those who are now houseless, shelterless—and shall I act so ungrateful as to
                     rob them of their property?"
                  "Oh! dear, who ever heard such nonsense and stuff! Rob rebels of their
                     property, indeed! Where did they get it from, I should like to know?—from the
                     king's protection and aid, and now they want to rob him. I tell you, Mag, you
                     musn't be so chicken-hearted, if you want to be my favorite. Besides, if we
                     didn't take it, and keep possession of the house, who would? A parcel of
                     ruff-scuff sojers, red-coated blackguard rogues, that would steal the last
                     hinge from the doors, and the last nail from the roof. No, no, it's charity for
                     us to see to things—first come, first served."
                  The young girl, as desired, proceeded to spread the cloth, whilst Mrs.
                     Gatchell, after closing the door, and placing a heavy piece of furniture
                     against it, went to a small closet, or pantry, drew aside a false panel, and
                     brought out a heavy silver tea-pot.
                  "Ah! here's the darling," she said, clasping the shining metal to her breast,
                     "silver, solid silver, nothing like it to drink tea from. Its well I found you
                     out Maggy, after gettin' a description of the place. If I hadn't there's no
                     tellin' what might have happened. You might ha' been abused by the sojers, and
                     I never seen this pretty, pretty piece of silver," and again the old woman
                     hugged it, as if the tea pot had been a favorite babe.
                  "But, grandmother, what right have you or I to do anything here? Had we not
                     better conceal the most valuable things, and in course of time we may have a
                     chance to return them to the rightful owners. Oh! I should be so happy if you
                     will only consent—it will be merely doing right."
                  "What can ail the gal? Why, there isn't much Gatchell blood in you, I guess,
                     Mag. Hide away the valuables for the owners! who ever heard the like? Why it's
                     all confisticated, as they call it, to the King, that's what it is, and I'm on
                     the King's side, so I'm bound to take care of his property and this tea-pot in
                     particular."
                  "It is useless to attempt anything I see," said Margaret, in a low tone, "If
                     one does not plunder the house another will, and perhaps submission is the best
                     plan left."
                  
                  "Come, sit by, Mag. This bread is warm you see. The camp-baker has already got
                     a house near by for army baking. He's a Hessian, an old friend, and if you'll
                     put on one smile, I'll tell you something that may please ye."
                  "I am smiling, you see—now let me hear it."
                  "Well, these cheeny cups are ilegant. I'm one of the big ladies now—silver
                     tea-put and cheeny cups. But why don't you taste your tea, Mag?"
                  "There, you see me drink: now, for what you have to tell that will please me—I
                     wish something to cheer me."
                  "Now, Mag, it's a long time since I saw you 'til this morning, and I didn't
                     know that you was among the livin' till then—you was a baby only remember; but
                     more about that some other time. I've seen a good deal of the world in my time,
                     though I'm ignorant, and a woman, and I know what it's made of. There's no
                     chicken heart about me, that's sartain, nor much kindness neither to most
                     folks. Angels are tolerable skarse, I reckon, for I never see'd
                     one yet and don't calculate to what's more. If there's such a place as fire and
                     brimstone, that the preacher's talk about, I can't say but I'm likely to be one
                     of them that's sent there, for sins and such like, I own it, but the
                     Lord—."
                  "Now, grandmother, I pray you stop talking in that way," interrupted Margaret,
                     in a quick and firm tone, "I am ready and willing to listen to all subjects
                     except a doubt of what I believe sacred, and that I shall not endure. Your
                     opinions are your own—leave mine undefiled. I fear to relapse from my creed,
                     but I will listen to nothing against it."
                  "More of what the larn'd call edication, I suppose. Well, Mag, you'll hear
                     nothing more from me about that, but, as I was sayin', I know something about
                     the world. I havn't much credit for being particularly kind and gentle, 'taint
                     my natur, and I guess it an't been bettered any. But I tell ye what 'tis gal, I
                     hate them as hates me, and they don't get the best on't,—of that
                     I'm sure. Take some more tea, Mag, out of this silver pot."
                  The silver tea-pot was uppermost in the mind of the avaricious, revengeful old
                     woman's mind, say what she would.
                  "Some call me covetous," continued the old woman, "and Mother Gatchell has been
                     a byword in a good many stories, for one that's close, stealing they meant, if
                     they dared say so. Well, what did I care, what do I care—I've got nothing else
                     to live for except a little bit of revengeful natur, that's got to be let out
                     by and by, as some, I reckon, will find out, afore this war's
                     over, king's man and rebels both—what do you think of that, my dear?"
                  "I had rather not hear more, grandmother, about revenge, and such matters, one
                     should have no enemies, and need have none."
                  "Really, really now, you think so, do you, Maggy? No enemies, well, that is
                     good—and needn't have any that is better yet. Why, when was the world at peace
                     I should like to know. Ain't the priests quarreling about the way to go to
                     heaven—ain't the deacons fighting about which shall be first in the
                     congregation. Don't good people go to law, when two or three words might settle
                     the matter; ain't the whole country at war about rebels, king's men, tories and
                     whigs, I should like to know? Then, how can people like me, or any one else
                     that moves about, get along without enemies?"
                  "Very easy, grandmother. So might the whole world."
                  "In what way?"
                  "By a simple rule, very simple, and yet, oh! how true, grandmother."
                  "Tell me, tell me, my gal," said Mother Gatchell, with anxiety.
                  "It is old, very old, and contained in a book that I fear you never read. Do
                     unto others as you would have others do unto you, and you will make no
                     enemies."
                  "Is that all,—no, I don't act up to such doctrine, its sneakin' and cowardly.
                     When any one wrongs me, I'll wrong 'cm back, and give what's sent, that's the
                     doctrine for me."
                  "Then you will be in trouble for the rest of your days. I would not possess a
                     heart like yours, grandmother, if you speak truly, for the wealth of a world.
                     But, perhaps you may change, yes, you shall, if my simple words,
                     precept and example, can be of any avail. But you have not yet informed me of
                     that which you say will please me. What does it mean."
                  "This, my darling, for I begin to feel that I shan't make an enemy out of you,
                     do what I will. It's time I had some one to love, since what happened not long
                     ago—all gone!" and her voice actually trembled. "The Baker General, to the
                     camp, says that De Heister, that commands the Hessian foreigners, is looking
                     out for quarters, and that he'll most likely take possession of this house, and
                     if I manage right, I can get charge as superintendant, a kind of housekeeper
                     like."
                  "Do, do, if you can, grandmother," said Margaret, eagerly.
                  "Why, what do you care about it, gal?"
                  "For various reasons. One, it will give me a better opportunity to teach you
                     that there is joy in doing right."
                  "Pooh! pooh!"
                  "Another, you will be settled in an occupation respectful, instead of the
                     jeering stock for every drunken soldier."
                  "There's somethin' in that. I'm getting too old to be a camp follower any
                     longer, I think myself. But about being jeered—there's none among the sogers
                     dare to do that just yet, they dread Mother Gatchell too much, for they know,
                     when I strike, the blow comes pretty hard."
                  "And the last reason is, grandmother, that I shall still be in the mansion of
                     those who were once my benefactors, and thus save from destruction much that
                     will be valuable at some other time to them."
                  "Well, well, Mag, you have a kind heart, I see, and if I do get the service
                     under the Hessian General, why, you can write down all that there is in the
                     house on a piece of paper, and, maybe, the General will think 'em yours, and
                     then they will be safe. This silver tea-pot is my property, come what
                     will."
                  "Keep it then, if it pleases you. I have a right to give away something from
                     the house, to preserve what remains. Besides, I have up-stairs, books and
                     things of my own."
                  "Your's?"
                  "Yes, the gifts of my good friends who brought me up from misery and trouble,
                     to know and do that which was right."
                  "They must have been good to you, darling, that you love them so well."
                  "Ah! yes, parents to me when my own mother—"
                  "Don't speak of her," said Mother Gatchell, in a tone of bitter anger, "if you
                     do, I'll have nothing to do with you, no, I'll give you up, house and all, to
                     the soldiers, as true as you know me. Your mother, my
                     daughter—ah!"
                  "Well, grandmother, I will not mention her. She is unworthy even
                     your love, but do not hate her, I cannot, would not, for there should be time
                     left for repentance."
                  "Don't speak of her—not another word. Bad as I am, and bad as I may be, I never
                     can do half the wrong she has done. Enough, never mention her name again."
                  "To you I will not. Hark! what noise is that?"
                  The hour was about nine, and the part of the city in which the house was
                     situated had not, as yet, been divided into guard sections. The principal
                     portion of the soldiery had entered the city during the afternoon, and, in
                     spite of the exertions of the officers, many of the soldiers found opportunity
                     to indulge themselves in the use of liquor, until they became wild with
                     excitement, a consequence that always follows, when a city surrenders or is
                     evacuated.
                  Now Mother Gatchell had no fear for herself, but, in possession only by
                     occupation of a magnificent and well furnished house, with none near by to aid
                     her, and wishing none to do the pillage, save such as was done by her own
                     hands, she did dread the entrance of drunken soldiers. Her mind, as our readers
                     know, was quick in emergencies, and she rushed at once to the outer door to
                     secure that, but she was too late, two or three drunken men were in the entry,
                     cursing and swearing, but fortunately neither of them had a light.
                  "Out of here, you robbing rascals!" she exclaimed, giving one a push which sent
                     him reeling down the steps, "out of here. Is this the way you come into a
                     decent woman's house, a regular friend of the king's. I'll tell your commanding
                     officer of you, you blackguards."
                  One of them, recognizing her voice, drunk as he was, roared out—
                  "Oh! ho! it's you, Mother Gatchell, looking after number one, as usual. But you
                     shan't have it, you b—h, this time, no, that you shan't. Ho, boys, in the
                     street there, this way, this way, it's the old camp hag. Mother Gatchell, no
                     one else, come, lade come."
                  A blow from the fist of the muscular and hard-fisted old woman, for, in despite
                     of her age and sex, she was strong, knocked him down, but, in falling, he
                     blocked up the passage way, unfortunately, so that she was unable to close the
                     outer door. The remaining soldier drew his bayonet from his belt, and made a
                     pass at her, which she, dark as is was, avoided, and retreated back into the
                     room she had left.
                  The soldiers in the street, numbering some dozen or more, rushed up the
                        steps and soon filled the entry. Fortunately
                        Mother Gatchell had well secured the door of the room in
                     which she now was, in company with Margaret, and the latter betrayed no symptom
                     of fear, young and weak as she was.
                  "The red-coated rascals," exclaimed Mother Gatchell, "have got too much rum in
                     them, and a drunken sojer is worse than any other drunkard to keep in
                     order."
                  "If the worst should come, grandmother, there is a place of safety for us to
                     retreat to, known only to me."
                  "Retreat! do you think I'd retreat, gal, with arms in my hands, like these—no,
                     no, I'm too old in the sojerin' trade for that."
                  In one corner of the room, hid from sight, were two or three muskets with
                     bayonets, and a cartridge box well filled. These were soon dragged out, and the
                     old woman continued, as she loaded the weapons.
                  "You see, my dear—they make a great noise outside—you see I'm well prepared,
                     and I can give some of the rascals a dose, when they attempt to break in, that
                     they won't get over in a hurry—blow away, there, you'll have the guard after
                     you, and that's what I want"
                  "Open that door, will you, hag?" yelled one.
                  "If you don't, d—d a penny will you get from me for what I owe you," roared
                     another.
                  "Out with you, one and all, from the entry. This is a private mansion placed
                     under my charge, and I've two guns loaded, if you don't clear out mighty quick,
                     you'll get the contents of one of 'em."
                  "Fire and be d—d!" was the answer, mingled with oaths, and at the same time, a
                     heavy piece of wood was thrown against the door.
                  "If you do that again, I'll fire through the panel," screamed Mother
                     Gatchell.
                  "If you do, we'll fire back, you hag of hell."
                  "There's not a gun among you; drunken fellows can't get their guns from the
                     barracks."
                  This remark was true, and, so far, she had the advantage over those
                     without.
                  "Will you open the door peaceably, Mother Gatchell?"
                  "No, not I, you drunkard."
                  "For the last time, I say, old devil's dam that you are, will you open the
                     door."
                  "No, but I've got my finger on the trigger of a king's musket, and if you make
                     much more bother outside, I'll fire."
                  "Fire and be d—d, old hag, but if you do, we'll make a bonfire, and burn your
                     old carcass."
                  "We'll see to that inside; set fire, if you dare, General De Heister has chosen
                     this place for his quarters, and look out some of you don't swing for this
                     night's work."
                  The reply to this was a blow, followed by several still more heavy ones,
                     against the door, which gave
                     symptoms of yielding to the pressure.
                  "I'll call one, two, three, and when I say the last, I'll fire through the
                     panel, if you don't stop," said Mrs. Gatchell, now really mad.
                  Another blow.
                  "One!"
                  Still more blows, and a part of one of the panels is broken in.
                  "Two!"
                  "Ah, ha! knock away, boys, we'll soon be inside, the old she thief shan't have
                     all the pillege to herself."
                  "Three!"
                  There was a discharge of the musket, and the soldier who had last spoken, fell,
                     groaning terribly, in the entry. The shot had taken effect. There was a
                     moment's pause as his fellows gathered round him and lifted him up to bear him
                     away. Then rose a general shout, "break down the door! burn the hag! torture
                     her to death! damn her!" and similar phrases, as a desperate attack was
                     made.
                  A noise was heard in the street, above the roar of those inside—the trampling
                     of horses, and loud words of command. The soldiers outside ran different ways,
                     as several officers, in rich uniforms, dismounted, followed by an armed guard.
                     The door of the room had just given way, when the chief of the officers reached
                     the passage. A single word and the soldiers in the entry paused, a glance and
                     they attempted to retreat, but it was too late, the guard was at the outer
                     door.
                  "Secure those ruffians at once. We come to protect not to destroy," said the
                     officer, in a voice of command; as he entered the room where was Mother
                     Gatchell and her granddaughter.
                  "We are saved, saved, grand-mother," said Margaret, "thank God."
                  "And proud I am, that I have been the means of aiding one so young and fair,"
                     said the officer, as he bowed, cap in hand, to the girl before him—she was
                     indeed young and beautiful.
                  The young officer was some five-and-twenty years of age. His appearance was
                     martial, and his face beamed with frankness and candor. The light in the room
                     was sufficient to show Margaret this, as he spoke:
                  "Mrs Gatchell, I believe."
                  "Yes, sir," replied the old woman; "lately attached to the thirty-third,"
                     alluding to the regiment she had joined as camp follower.
                  "But now unattached," said the officer, with a smile; "but what means this
                     disturbance and noise?"
                  "Why, Major Abercrombie, the matter is this," and she proceeded, in her way, to
                     relate the occurrences of the night.
                  "I do not see but you were in the right, though I fear some of the drunken
                     rascals have got their quietus from your skill with the musket."
                  "They desarved it, your honor, for frightenin' me and my granddaughter as they
                     did."
                  "Is this your granddaughter?" he inquired, in a doubtful tone.
                  "Sartain, sir—my darter's darter. Speak up, Mag—this is Major Abercrombie, one
                     of the finest gentlemen of the army."
                  Margaret raised her eyes and acknowledged slightly the introduction.
                  "She wasn't brought up like me, in an ignoramus sort o' way—no such thing; she
                     was brought up like a lady, that she was."
                  "Then let me tell you, Mrs. Gatchell, this now is a poor place for her. The
                     city is filled with soldiery, at present hardly in obedience or under
                     control."
                  "I know that," said old mother Gatchell, "but as this is to be the quarters of
                     General De Heister, I took charge of it for him—wasn't I right?"
                  "That makes some difference, truly. Are you to take charge of the household
                     affairs of the General? I am at present acting as his aid."
                  "Oh! Major, I'm glad to hear it. A good word from you would get me the
                     situation. My granddaughter knows all about this house, for it was Mr.
                     Morris's, where she was brought up as one of the family."
                  "For the sake of this young lady, then, I will speak a good word; in the
                     meantime take possession, and keep everything in order."
                  "Sartainly, Major; but won't you take a cup of tea and a bit of something
                     before you leave us?—and mayn't we have a sentry or two around the place—there
                     is a good many valuables about."
                  "Yes, I have just given orders for stationing the patrol guard in this section
                     of the city, and it was while engaged in so doing that the disturbance brought
                     me here."
                  "But you'll take a cup of tea, Major?"
                  Margaret had risen from her seat, and placed upon the table the preparation of
                     food, which was ready at the time the soldiers made the assault.
                  "If, sir," she said, in her quiet voice, "you will taste of this trifling
                     supper, it will please me."
                  There was something lady-like in the manners of the young girl—lady-like, young
                     as she was, that riveted his attention, and he at once accepted of the
                     invitation, and took a seat at the table, which was near him. Margaret, without
                     seating herself, poured out the tea, placed it before him, and remained
                     standing.
                  "No, Miss, I cannot drink it without your company. Consider me in the light of
                     a guest, for you are certainly my hostess on this occasion."
                  "As you please, sir," was her answer, and she took her seat at the table.
                  The old woman knew her place too well, and merely superintended the fire, the
                     omission of asking her giving no offence, for it is hardly to be supposed that
                     her associations and character were not well enough known to the officers of
                     the army.
                  "This was the mansion of Mr. Morris, one of the most noted of disloyalists, I
                     think your grandmother said?"
                  "It was, sir."
                  "It is strange that he should have taken sides against the king, with his
                     wealth and standing."
                  "Opinions are various respecting the justice of the two sides."
                  "Really, it seems to me that all the females in this country are full of
                     patriotism, as it is called. I hardly find an exception."
                  "Why, Major, an't I an exception? I've done a deal for the king, bless him,
                     that's what I have."
                  "Yes, Mrs. Gatchell, so report goes," said the Major, with a smile. "You should
                     have a pair of epaulettes, at least, for your exertions on the king's side. The
                     fame of 'Mother Gatchell'—pardon my familiarity—is established throughout the
                     army, as loyal beyond belief almost."
                  "Mother is as good as any other name to me, Major. General Howe knows that my
                     sarvices are of some value."
                  "But how is it that this young lady, your granddaughter, is on the other
                     side?"
                  "Oh! you see, she was brought up in a rebel's nest. It's mighty strange, I only
                     found her out a short time ago. It's a long story, and you shall hear it
                     sometime, for, if you are General De Heister's aid, you must reside with him in
                     his family, and that will bring us together, so as I can tell you something
                     about my affairs."
                  "I would rather hear it from your granddaughter's lips. You seem desponding,
                     young lady."
                  "I do not feel in very good spirits, sir. The events of the last two days have
                     not been such as to please me. I have seen those who were my only true friends,
                     driven from their homes to make room for enemies."
                  "How enemies?"
                  "Not enemies to me, for I trust I have none; but enemies to those who are dear
                     to me. Is not this horrid war, which separates families, relatives, and
                     neighbors of a life, enough to make even the youngest desponding?"
                  "Oh! it will soon be over—the war cannot last long, and those who have been led
                     astray will again come back to their homes, and receive the king's pardon, if
                     they ask for it in time. The war cannot last long."
                  There was as little of the braggart about the young officer as in any man. But
                     the opinions and feelings he entertained were such as were universal at that
                     time among the British officers, they regarding the power of England as too
                     powerful to be resisted, not knowing the general determination of independence
                     existing among the Americans. For this reason, at the commencement of the
                     difficulties, England did not put forth all her power to crush them by main
                     force, and, when she did attempt it, they had reached a crisis that could not
                     be overcome.
                  "If a happy termination of these quarrels can be arranged, God grant that it
                     come speedily, and peace and plenty once more exist over the land," said
                     Margaret, in reply to what was last said.
                  "That is wished for by all, young lady. Well, Gifford, are the guards placed
                     according to orders?"
                  "Yes, sir," said a soldier, who had just entered the room, "I believe
                     everything is done as you requested."
                  "Have the wounded men been taken care of?"
                  "One, sir, is dead—the other they are about to take to the barracks. Their
                     companions are swearing vengeance against Mother Gatchell."
                  "And I'll do the same thing again, if they come in the same way," replied the
                     old beldame, indignantly. "If they attempt any underhand movements agin me, I
                     guess it'll be the worse for them."
                  "Keep quiet, Mother Gatchell," said the Major; "this matter will of course have
                     to undergo an examination, but I will see that no harm happens to you. You can
                     withdraw, Gifford—I will be at the door in a moment."
                  The Orderly withdrew as directed, and in a moment after the Major rose from the
                     tea-table.
                  "I thank you most sincerely for the attention I have received, my young lady,
                     to night. Rest without fear of any farther trouble. I shall give strict orders
                     to the sentries to permit no one to enter the house. To-morrow, when General De
                     Heister takes possession, if he chooses it for his quarters, things will be
                     made agreeable for you to remain at your convenience. If not, command Major
                     Abercrombie, and anything that he can do to place you in safety, be it within
                     our own lines, or out of them, if you prefer taking shelter with the Americans.
                     Mrs. Gatchell, good night; we shall meet again to-morrow," and without waiting
                     for an answer, courteously left the apartment, and was soon heard to ride
                     away.
                  "There, you see, Mag, what a situation we've got. I do think that pretty face
                     of yours had some influence in the matter. Only think, housekeeper to the
                     German General—what a promotion for me."
                  "As for yourself, grandmother, if this change will be of benefit, I hope
                     sincerely you will obtain what you wish. To me, it is of no importance. At the
                     proper time, I shall hold Major Abercrombie to his promise, and request a
                     safeguard to the American side."
                  "It takes two to agree to that bargain, Miss," answered Mother Gatchell, with
                     some asperity. "I'm your oldest relation recollect, and I've a right to keep
                     you with me if I wish."
                  "Surely you would not keep me here, to spend my time amidst soldiers. To
                     become, whether I would or not, however honestly, the associate of officers,
                     whose rank in life is so far above my own, that slander could frame what it
                     pleased, and be believed respecting a poor girl like myself?"
                  "Oh! fudge about character. Remember your mother, girl, and her way of life.
                     Besides, whose child are you, I pray. I know, on your mother's
                     side, what your blood is, but your father, that's what I want to
                     know."
                  To these unfeeling words, Margaret made no reply, but bent down her head and
                     sighed.
                  "No, no, girl—I didn't mean anything; Maggy, dear, forgive me. Your mother's
                     acts an't your fault, and this old tongue of mine has been so used to speaking
                     in a way that's right enough to common folks, I forgot I shouldn't do it to
                     you. No, no, Mag, don't think about what I've said. I'll see that no harm comes to you, that I will—I'll
                     watch and keep my eyes open, so that no harm can come to you. Look a little
                     cheery now, do.'
                  "You forbade me to mention my mother's name, and you are the first to bring it
                     up again. With all her faults, she is still my mother."
                  "Yes, yes, I know, and as unfeelin' a mother as she was darter. But enough
                     about her. Think what a grand situation it will be, to have charge of General
                     De Heister's house. You shall be the lady, while I have charge of the
                     kitchen."
                  "I have no wish or intention to remain here. Bet let us talk no more of this. I
                     feel weary, and as safety is now around us, I will go up stairs to my
                     bed-room."
                  "Up stairs, you say?"
                  "Yes, my room has not been disturbed. The family disturbed not a single thing
                     when they hurried away so fast to avoid the entrance of the English army, and
                     the soldiers have had no opportunity to plunder the upper apartments, as you
                     know."
                  "Very true, Mag, but where am I to sleep?"
                  The girl hesitated for a moment ere she replied.
                  "There is in the next story a room where you will find some loose beds and
                     blankets. They were left behind, although intended to be taken away. You can
                     have your choice, my room or there. As long as I feel safe from the intrusion
                     of drunken soldiers, it matters but little where I sleep"
                  "Wait but a few minutes, Mag, and I will go with you. You keep your own room,
                     I'll find a resting place. Never fear for a camp-woman."
                  "You will find no need of sleeping uncomfortably, as far as regards
                     conveniences, to-night, grandmother."
                  "Now let me carry this bowl of warm tea to the sentry outside of the door, and
                     then we will go up. There is nothing, gal, like being a leetle kind to those
                     who keep watch."
                  Mother Gatchell proceeded to perform that which she had spoken of, relieving
                     the sentinel, if not from duty, with some slight refreshment. The cup of ten,
                     however, was mere gammon—she was herself too old a soldier not to know that
                     something stronger than tea would best please the sentinel. The latter seemed
                     to think so likewise, when the old woman handed him a black bottle which she
                     had kept in concealment until she visited the soldier on his tour of duty.
                  "There, comrade," she said, "taste that—it's something you don't get every day.
                     Brandy, old French brandy, from the cellar of a rich rebel, isn't partick'lar
                     in flavor?"
                  "Never tasted anything half so good, old Mother," replied the sentry, smacking
                     his lips, "it's capital this chilly night. But, I say, how come you to shoot
                     any of the boys?"
                  "Shoot 'em, why shouldn't I? I give 'em warnin' enough, and they knew me well
                     enough, and why shouldn't I teach 'em to know better next time. But never mind,
                     we'll talk about it another time. Look out well till you are relieved, and to
                     morrow you shall have another bottle."
                  "Good—all right old woman—I'll keep my eyes in my head. I thank you for this
                     bread-stuff and the bit o' meat, but hadn't you better leave the bottle—there
                     isn't more'n a couple of gills left, and I guess it won't get me off the
                     rounds?"
                  "Well, well, Bill, since its you, I'll leave it, and mind and say
                     a good word for me among the wounded men's comrades; I don't want their
                     ill-will, but then I want to be treated right. Don't forget it—remember the
                     extra bottle for to-morrow, and good night." Saying this, she closed and
                     barracaded the outer door as well as she was able.
                  Margaret, when left alone in the room, placed a few small articles in a covered
                     basket. Her articles were, a bottle, which she filled with water, a flask that
                     she took from a concealed drawer in the broken sideboard, some biscuit and
                     meat, and several articles of linen. This basket she then placed in a corner,
                     and hastily threw over it an old carpet.
                  "Come, Mag," said Mother Gatchell, "now for bed; it's past midnight, and I must
                     be up betimes to see how things go. You see, gal, and I can't tell it too
                     often, that in my new situation, that is, if I should get it, I must put on
                     more dignity. To have charge of the kitchen, even of General De Heister, will
                     give me an important place in society."
                  Margaret could not help smiling, sad as she was, at this imagined dignified
                     situation of the woman she called grandmother. "Can it, indeed, be possible,"
                     she thought, "that this vulgar and bad old woman is my grand parent? But, ah!
                     with such a mother as I have, why should I doubt it. Is error and crime then
                     hereditary?" She shuddered at the thought.
                  By this time they had left the room, on their way to the sleeping apartments
                     above. The old woman took possession of the apartment pointed out, whilst
                     Margaret ascended to her own room, a story higher. Instead of 
                        undressimg
                        undressing
                      herself, she trimmed her lamp, and refilled it. From a bookcase she
                     took down a volume, and commenced reading. From time to time, she rose from her
                     chair, went to the door, and listened attentively.
                  An hour or more passed away, when, throwing a shawl over her shoulders, she
                     opened the door, and carefully shielding the light, she descended the stairs
                     slowly and cautiously. Passing the room of Mother Gatchell, the door of which
                     was closed, she paused a moment, but the deep breathing within gave audible
                     token that Mrs. Gatchell was in sound slumber. Satisfied with this, she soon
                     reached the room where they had supped.
                  From the room Margaret took the basket, and then passed along the entry towards
                     the rear of the mansion. An open passage-way led to a smaller building, which
                     had been occupied as a kitchen, but was now closed by a brick wall, that had
                     been placed so as to screen the doorway, and, to an inexperienced eye, no
                     entrance could be perceived. Against this wall she knocked slightly, and the
                     knocks were instantly returned.
                  "Margaret?" said a voice.
                  "Yes, it is!"
                  "Good and dear girl, I have been terribly alarmed at the disturbance and firing
                     of guns, but dared not show myself, even under my father's roof."
                  "Be content where you are, far the present."
                  "Is the house guarded?"
                  "Yes—speak low."
                  "Can I not escape before morning?"
                  "No, that is impossible. Be quiet, and I will see that you succeed. I have
                     brought you some refreshment—put out your hand."
                  A hand was extended through the narrow passage, and Margaret tremblingly placed
                     the basket within its grasp.
                  "I hope you will find food enough there to satisfy you for the next twelve
                     hours. By that time, I will see that the preparations are arranged for your
                     escape. You are safe, where you now are, as long as I remain, which will be for
                     some days longer."
                  "Did all our people get away in time to avoid the enemy?"
                  "Yes, but I must leave you. The longer I stay, the more you are in danger."
                  "To-morrow, then, you will return?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Give me your hand for a moment."
                  She extended her hand—the lips of the person within pressed it.
                  "Good night."
                  "Good night."
                  And Margaret regained her apartment in safety.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIII.
                  Our readers will remember that, at the close of the thirty-first chapter of our
                     story, we left Sim Westervelt safely returned to the quarters of Burnham, at
                     the village of White Plains. We say safely, according to the belief of Sim
                     himself, but how little do we know of our friends or our enemies.
                  The man, or woman, if you please, who undertakes to demonstrate that our race
                     are not, in a great measure, the creatures of circumstances, must find a newer
                     and fresher idea of argument than the world has yet furnished. The humble case
                     of Westervelt, in the present instance, is an argument in point. This
                     Westervelt, in reality, lacked all honor—Nature had created him
                     destitute of the meaning of the word, as understood in the origin of terms. He
                     possessed no etymology—none by nature or education. The world is full of such
                     personifiers of humanity. Yet one thing they possess—selfishness. Ah! this is
                     the deadliest of sins—the monster of vice—the parent of corruption—the
                     offspring of all vice, from the moment Eve took the apple in the garden of
                     Eden.
                  In the town where Westervelt was born, lived a farmer of moderate
                     circumstances. This farmer was the parent of quite a number of children, among
                     them several daughters. Of the daughters, one was peculiarly unfortunate. She
                     was born with a limited intellect. She grew up to the age of seventeen,
                     possessing faculties half sensible—the other half a blank. Still she knew the
                     difference between right and wrong—in some cases very singularly true—in others
                     all was void.
                  Pitiable, pitiable state for a female situated as she was. The story can be
                     briefly told. Westervelt took advantage of her situation. It was a fault of
                     nature, not of intentional error, on her part, for she scarcely recognized what
                     the world deemed right. He pretended that marriage was the same at one time as
                     another, and the results of his conquest terminated in the loss of her
                     character and the birth of a child. The existence of that child brought reason
                     to the mother, and, when she was cast out of doors, for a sin she knew not, in
                     its committal, for the first time, nature opened the eyes of the wronged woman
                     to her desolate situation.
                  Her destroyer had left the place immediately after this event. Circumstances
                     took him away, fortunately, so that he could not display his own ideas of
                     wrong—ideas that were as black, when viewed in the light of justice, as the sun
                     might be when looked upon in the duration of a full eclipse.
                  The girl had some friends, and, finally, after the burial of the child, which,
                     fortunately for itself and the mother, died, she was taken as a servant at the
                     very inn where Burnham and his command, together with the wrong doer to this
                     poor girl, remained for the time being. Westervelt himself knew nothing of it,
                     but the poor victim, the cast off woman, had seen him, and marked him well.
                  When he dropped from the window of his room, after midnight, there were two
                     eyes upon him that he little thought of. They were the eagle glances of the
                     half-witted girl he had once deceived, but now as eager in her hate as she had
                     been in her sincere affection for the scoundrel who had wronged her.
                  Neither did those eyes sleep—open they kept, during the remainder of the period
                     when Westervelt passed from his room until he returned, and entered the same
                     way he had left. Little did he think that the moment of pleasure is
                     followed—aye! closely followed—by hours of pain. But even those very hours are
                     hours of circumstances. We cannot reconcile them by any other rule—read what we
                     mean.
                  The time was morning.
                  Now, it so happened that Susan, for such was the woman's name, was told that a
                     favorite cow would recognize none but her, in her domestic arrangements for
                     milking. For this reason, she took her seat at the usual benching place where
                     she received her pails. Some animals—a cow, for instance—possess, in many
                     degrees, a remembrance of old acquaintance that we cannot confine or understand
                     by general rules. Such was the case, peculiarly, in this instance. The
                     four-footed animal had roamed through the broken-down gates and admission
                     places of the period, until she happened to arrive at the bars of the inn,
                     where, very impatiently awaiting her arrival, was her milking mistress, and
                     there she remained.
                  And thus did Susan remain. Her milking-pail was sent back—she did this
                     herself—but she had her vengeance beyond. For this it was she kept watch of
                     Westervelt. And why did she keep
                     watch of Westervelt? we may ask again. She knew him.
                  But was it for simple ideas of unexpected vengeance she remembered him?
                  No!
                  It was for revenge, but not for such revenge as befel Westervelt, her wronger,
                     her seducer.
                  Westervelt returned—he crawled through the window of his room, and appeared
                     sound asleep in the morning. The rogue had been out-rogued by the
                     woman he had himself deceived. He knew nothing of it.
                  When Burnham rose in the morning, he went in the direction of the stables. His
                     own horse was a favorite, and, to tell the truth, he felt no particular liking
                     for the favoritism his horse might receive, except from strangers, and
                     strangers he knew, even at the best of inns, to be anything but favorable, at
                     that time, to the nags of any one else.
                  When Burnham stepped forth, in the morning, he was accosted by this girl, and
                     it may be as well to state that, but for a vacant expression of the eye, she
                     would have passed not only for a girl of some beauty, but also intellect.
                  "There's great doin' among the trainers to-day. Ain't you Captain?" and she
                     caught hold of his sword as it trailed along the grass.
                  "I believe I am, my girl—Captain of these trainers, at any rate."
                  "What pretty feathers they wear."
                  "Do you think so?"
                  "Yes; and then their guns are so bright. It must take a mighty deal of scouring
                     to keep 'em so."
                  "Yes, yes, but let go my sword," he said, gently.
                  The girl still held firm to the scabbard.
                  "No, don't go away—I've something to say to you, and it's something pretty,
                     too."
                  "Well, well, let me hear it now—you see I'm all attention."
                  "No, I can't say it here—somebody will hear us, and it's very pretty."
                  "But why not say it here? I'm in a hurry, and cannot stay long."
                  "No, no, not here."
                  "Ah! then I can't wait."
                  Saying this, he withdrew his sword, which it required some little force to
                     do.
                  "Then you'll be sorry for not listening to what I've got to say," looking
                     around cautiously, then putting her lips close to his ear, said, "there's
                     danger about—it's close by, the tories have bright guns and long rifles."
                  This was spoken in a voice and manner that made Burnham start. It was evident
                     the girl knew something of his errand.
                  "Tell me at once, my girl, what you mean. I'll go where you say."
                  "The captain believes the witling at last, does he? See, too late, too
                     late."
                  She pointed to a black woman who was approaching with two large empty tin
                     kettles. When the black got close by, she looked from one to the other and
                     said,
                  "Come, Miss Sue, I guess you've had enough of love matchin', if what folks say
                     is true about you. Don't bother de officer, but take one of de pails. The cows
                     are waitin' for us."
                  The girl looked somewhat angry at the negro woman, then seizing one of the
                     pails, she darted off without saying a word to Burnham. The black woman gazing
                     after her, said in a half commiserating tone, "Poor gal, white folks has dar
                     trouble as well as black folks. She was a mighty good gal, people say, once,
                     but she didn't know enough. Dat was de Almity's reason, I spose."
                  This remark and the strange conduct of the girl elicited the curiosity of
                     Burnham, and the gift of a piece of silver drew from the black woman, in brief,
                     the story of the unfortunate born and unhappy girl. He listened with attention,
                     and at its conclusion he said,
                  "You are going now to assist her in milking?"
                  "Yes, master officer."
                  "I have reasons for wishing to see her. Will you say the officer who commands
                     the 'trainers,' will see her before he leaves?"
                  "Yes, master captain, but—"
                  "I want no answer. Do as I tell you, and you shall have another piece of money
                     for your trouble. Perhaps I may be of service to the poor girl, as she wished
                     to be of service to me. What is your name?"
                  "Sheba, arter one ob dem queens in scriptur', and de domine said last Sunday,
                     it was'nt sartin but Sheba was a black woman, bekase she come from de gold
                     country, which I tink was de Guinea coast, whar de black people are mighty
                     great, and whar dey was naturally born."
                  Of course Burnham did not stop to argue this matter pro nor con, but with a smile,
                     said, as he put into the hands of the wench another piece of money, "Repeat to
                     the girl what I have said—I will see her before I leave this place."
                  He then, without waiting for an answer, went towards the stable where his men
                     had reposed for the night, the sentinels and guards having been withdrawn at
                     daylight.
                  "Very good officer, very good officer, dat gentleman," said the wench, looking
                     alternately at the two pieces of money and then at Burnham, as he left the
                     spot. "Its kind o' curious what he should want to see crazy Sue for No harm, I
                     know, he don't look like it. I kinder guess some tory business, dat must be it.
                     Dat gal, though she be reckoned a sort o' crazy and foolish like, she am not
                     so, she am not so."
                  Finishing this soliloquy, she took her way with her milking pail, in the
                     direction the girl had gone.
                  As Burnham entered the barn, he was met by the Orderly, on his way to make his
                     morning's report.
                  "Ah! Stanton, has anything happened during the night?"
                  "Nothing, sir, that we know of and yet we can't account for one thing."
                  "What is that?"
                  "The horses that drank of the water brought in last night appear to be very
                     restive and unavailable, sir; whilst those that wouldn't drink it—yours, sir,
                     among the number—are just the same as usual."
                  "Was it brought from the well?"
                  "It was drawn from it, sir, but, as far as I can ascertain, it was left
                     standing half an hour in the big trough, before the horses were brought
                     out."
                  "That was wrong, Stanton, unless you followed my orders, and had one of the men
                     on guard at the well. You know we are, in a measure, in an enemy's
                     neighborhood, for Westchester abounds with tories."
                  "I don't know how it was, sir, but Jones, who was on guard, must have tasted of
                     the water too, for he's about as bad as the horses, and won't, or rather, can't
                     tell anything."
                  "Am I to understand you, Orderly, that most of the horses are not fit for the
                     men to mount?"
                  "No, sir, not exactly that, but I think it would be dangerous—some of 'em are
                     perfectly mad, sir."
                  A furious stamping arose, and a neighing, as if indeed the horses were let
                     loose, and were then about to rush out, mingled with the shouts of the
                     troopers.
                  "There is treachery somewhere," said Burnham, to the Orderly.
                  "I know, or at least I think there is, sir—but it's not among the men."
                  "No, not among the men; you are right in that respect, Stanton."
                  "I think, sir," said the Orderly, in a tone of belief, yet mingled with
                     apprehension, "I can guess where the treachery lies."
                  "Where?"
                  "Well, sir, if I must say it, the guide."
                  "And why the guide?"
                  "His looks."
                  "Ah! we should never judge men by their looks, Stanton. I thought you had
                     deeper reasons."
                  "Not really agin him, sir, but Jones has a kind of belief, as far
                     as he can talk, that a woman came and put something in the trough."
                  "And why did not Jones arrest her at the moment?"
                  "He did try, sir, but she led him a strange chase, and he found himself up to
                     his neck in a brook, at the very moment he thought he had her."
                  "Does he describe her appearance?"
                  "No, sir; he's too confused or drunk, or what not, to do that; he says she
                     disappeared, laughing at him, when he was in the water, up to his neck."
                  "A very good story on the part of Jones, orderly, a very good story. I think he
                     has, thus far, in the movements of the company, proved himself a good man.'
                  "I don't understand you exactly, sir?"
                  "Then I will tell you what I mean. He was in the leading file on the
                     right."
                  "Yes, sir, he was in that position after we left Mrs. Hagarmans."
                  "He complained of being unwell, I believe, am I right?"
                  "You are, sir."
                  "Now, did not the guide give Jones a small phial of medicine to relieve him of
                     his distress?"
                  "Now—I—think of it," said the orderly, slowly, "he did, sir."
                  "And Jones has partaken of it. I see through it all. Say nothing, but muster
                     the men, I will place things right. Let them get their breakfast quietly,
                     by-the-bye, before you make the muster or parole. We shall now be detained some
                     hours beyond the time ordered for the march. If our guide should come to you
                     and inquire for the reason of the delay, refer him to me, and watch him well.
                     He is a dangerous man, and I have every reason to believe he is engaged in some
                     manœuvre to catch us. We shall foil him, Stanton, we shall foil him, believe
                     me. Remember, my dear fellow, as one of the corps, the responsibility."
                  "Do not fear, Major, about that, I have now your hints, and if Tom Stanton
                     forgets his duty in this crisis, then may he never look for a commission."
                  "One thing," said Burnham, "is there no one of the brickets containing any of
                     the drinking water for the horses left."
                  "Yes, sir, I dipped it out myself and my horse left after drinking only a few
                     swallows."
                  "All then is right. Put it aside carefully until I call. I do not want to meet
                     the men, but I will return through the door I entered One thing, Orderly, look
                     out for the guide."
                  And Stanton did look out for the guide when in the course of half an hour he
                     came to the quarters of the men, and looked about him with an appearance of
                     surprise,—saying:
                  "Why an't the men mounted?"
                  "What business is that of yours," answered the Orderly, to Westervelt.
                  "That you shall soon ascertain," he replied with no little indignation. "What
                     is the reason the horses and men are not ready?"
                  "Pooh! the best thing you can do, is to go to the tavern, drink again,
                        sleep and then return."
                  "Scoundrel! what do you mean?" Westervelt had forgotten himself in regard to
                     his powers.
                  "Well, then—I mean this, Mr. Guide,—you see the commander of the party yonder.
                     If you don't know him, I do, Major Burnham,—now go to him and ask your further
                     questions."
                  "I see him, and, what's more, I'll remember you."
                  The guide left the place, and went in the direction of Burnham.
                  Stanton, the Orderly, did not cease his gaze, but murmured to himself:
                  "You an't forgotten either."
                  Sim Westervelt, to tell the whole story, did not feel quite so comfortable as
                     he imagined, after hearing all of the Orderly's remarks. He had entered upon an
                     enterprise which, if successful, would give him a certain position. But, in the
                     engagement of this enterprise, he had not considered far enough. When he
                     reached the spot where Burnham was standing, a glance was exchanged between
                     them, but the guide first spoke:
                  "What's the matter, Major?"
                  "Perhaps you can tell best, Westervelt—do you see the contents of that
                     bucket?"
                  "I see a pail full of water, Major."
                  "I supposed as much," was the answer—"but do you know anything of the contents,
                     except water, as you say?"
                  
                  "No, I do not," the guide answered, in a tone not only surly, but
                     half mad. "I was placed under your control, Major Burnham, to effect certain
                     objects. You act as pleases you, and drive me to certain positions. I came only
                     as your guide, and I will do nothing beyond that. Discharge me, if you please,
                     from holding that office, but you dare do nothing further. I've got the safety
                     certificate of the Provincial Congress in my pocket, and you dare not injure
                     me."
                  "Look, scoundrel!" said Burnham.
                  The half-witted, injured girl stood in the door-way. The guide bent his head.
                     He was indeed surprised.
                  "Ah!" he muttered, and shrunk away like a licked hound.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIV.
                  Our army still lingered about Harlem Heights and Fort Washington. The plans of
                     the Commander-in-Chief were approved of by the great majority of his Generals
                     and officers, and he determined not to leave the island of New York, unless
                     absolutely driven from it. Subsequent military commentators have disapproved of
                     this conclusion, but, if things at this late date have any bearing, he was
                     right.
                  Two or three days after the forced evacuation of New York city had passed, when
                     our old friend, Ki Lane, was summoned to the head-quarters of the "great and
                     good General." His alacrity on such a summons need not be
                     doubted.
                  "I have sent for you," he said, "again to try your mettle. The movement is a
                     dangerous one, but I know of none but you, at this moment, to confide it—my
                     last agent is not yet returned, perhaps he never will. I should, ere this, have
                     received several communications from him, but I have got but one. I wish you to
                     go into the city, or its confines; will you do so, with a very fair chance of
                     costing your life?"
                  "I will, sir," was the prompt and emphatic reply.
                  "And you take upon yourself a dangerous duty, in which I do not approve the
                     principle."
                  "Gladly, sir."
                  "I do not ask it for myself, I ask it for the country."
                  "I know that well, General—I consider it a matter of duty."
                  "You are correct in the supposition, Lane; but you have over your own life a
                     control that does not belong to me, nor to Congress, and, therefore, before
                     placing it in jeopardy, you should consider well."
                  "Have I not done so before, General?"
                  "Yes, you have," and Washington turned away his face for a
                     moment.
                  If we recorded the tradition correctly, the paper over which he was leaning,
                     and writing upon, might have been noticed wet.
                  And what was there wrong in this, from the great man of his time? He has been
                     remembered in history for his inflexible sternness, which cast over him
                     throughout his whole life, civil and military, an almost godlike sublimity. In
                     this case there stood before him one, who not only in "thought and sinews," was
                     far beyond the ordinary creation of man, but his patriotism was displayed in so
                     pure and extraordinary a degree, that it might be compared to that period, when
                     simplicity, as in children, was a virtue.
                  "Well, General, your commands," says Lane. This was not spoken at all like one
                     who considered himself inferior to any one in existence, but with that air of
                     respect which ever hung about those that stood in the presence of "the Father
                     of his country."
                  "My instruction to you, Lane, will be verbal. I cannot communicate them on
                     paper as I did to Captain Hale. I fear, as I before said, that he has been
                     captured; if so, and the instructions which I gave him were found upon his
                     person, he would inevitably be doomed to destruction. They are not as I am told
                     by the commanding officer of his regiment, to be found upon his person.
                  "Your verbal instructions, General, will be all that I require," was the reply
                     of Ki.
                  "Very well, you will go into the city: you will go to a house in Queen street,
                     No. 64. You will there meet with a female, whether quite young or of a more
                     mature age, at present, according to my papers, I cannot tell." He looked over
                     several letters as he said this.
                  It did not appear that he was determined upon the phrase in regard to the woman
                     whether "young or old," for he hesitated more than a minute as he examined
                     paper by paper.
                  "I remember the number and the street, General," said Ki.
                  "Very true," was the instant answer, "but there are many proceedings like this
                     one, which may not be rightfully construed. I wish, if it should be ordained by
                     the Almighty Creator of us all, that I should fall in the struggle, to leave
                     behind me a name that no doubt could be thrown upon, in any point—and in this
                     case it might be, I mean one that should bear upon its face a semblance of want
                     of respect to my wife."
                  It may be necessary to explain here what is meant. During the revolution, the
                     women, in many cases were singularly faithful—much more so than the men.
                     According to tradition, and we have no reason to doubt its truth, the principal
                     informant of what occurred in New York, was furnished to Washington during the
                     whole seven years' war by a woman.
                  "Sir, who can doubt that," was the prompt reply of Ki.
                  "No American I hope and believe, but my enemies might assert that which does
                     not belong to it."
                  "Our country, sir, will never throw a shade upon your memory. The name of
                     Washington will be remembered, even if you should fall now, sir, as long as the
                     Colonies or the States revere anything that is good."
                  The General seemed not to hear this, but speedily spoke.
                  "You remember the name of the street and the house perfectly?"
                  "Yes, sir, Queen street, and the number, 64."
                  "Right. You may be met by a young female, a girl perhaps, or one approaching
                     the meridian of life. You will ask if Mrs. Gordon resides there, and you will
                     be answered, 'No.' This means nothing—that you are so to consider. You will
                     then say, I have a letter for her, and that you supposed that was the place and
                     number. You will then be replied to, 'I will inquire.' Then give this simple
                     slip of paper."
                  The General gave to Ki a slip of paper, on which was written these three
                     words:
                  "A TRUE TORY."
                  "I cannot bear that paper, sir, nor will I take it.
                  "Yes, Lane, you will, when I say a few more words in its favor."
                  "As you please, General."
                  "The reply is a plain and simple one. I am compromised more than you."
                  "Explain it, sir, if you please."
                  "That I will do, Lane. Your life may depend upon that very slip of paper."
                  "How so, sir?"
                  "You have told me that you are willing to undertake this dangerous matter. In
                     so doing, are you not ready to believe me?"
                  "I am, sir, now, and I shall be always, I hope."
                  "Then I have a few words further to say. I trust, after the explanation, as
                     they are meant for the nation, you will not place wrong constructions upon the
                     words used. They mean different, as a matter of course, from what you read
                     them. The situation of our country may depend even on this simple matter."
                  "I begin partly to understand, General."
                  "This simple scrip of paper is understood by the parties who are doing us—I
                     mean by us, the nation—a favor, in which they risk their own lives even in
                     taking, answering, or receiving."
                  "I understand still further, sir."
                  "The words, a true tory, constitute merely a
                        countersign. As you are a soldier, and a good one, why object
                     to it in the present case?"
                  "I do not, General—I am now convinced."
                  "I am glad of it. I am now more, if such a thing was possible, convinced of
                     your singular patriotism."
                  "Now, General, I will listen to all you have to say, without a question, except
                     where they may be necessary to further the result."
                  "After delivering this paper, you will endeavor to ascertain the position of
                     General Howe. The delivery of this paper will place you under protection, with
                     the female to whom it is delivered From time to time, send me answers in the
                     way she may point out. Your absence may cover a period of two weeks."
                  "Yes, General. When do you wish me to set out?"
                  "To morrow, or, perhaps, to-night; but I have not communicated all I have to
                     ask of you. You must go, if asked, to the quarters of General Howe"
                  "Yes, General."
                  "In those quarters I wish you to stay. The duty is particularly requested."
                  "I will do so, General."
                  "But there is something to be considered beyond that."
                  "What is that, sir?"
                  "To report to me everything you hear—everything you can ascertain. These
                     matters you should report to me by letter, or by some communication."
                  "It is a hard business, sir, but it shall be done."
                  "Then, again, I wish you to remember, Lane, that these things be done
                     periodically, for that little time in which your term of absence is
                     allowed."
                  "It shall be done, dear General."
                  The Commander-in-Chief rose and grasped his hand.
                  It was just after midnight, on a rather cool morning in the latter part of
                     September, 1776, that Ki—with a general pass in his pocket, directed to all
                     officers in the Continental service, to permit him to proceed beyond the lines,
                     and the little slip—"A true tory"—snugly secured in his
                     valise—drew his horse from the stables, and started on his dangerous
                     errand.
                  At the outposts he met Capt. Alexander Graydon, to whom he communicated, by the
                     order of Washington, enough of his business to enable the procurement of a pair
                     of saddle bags, some small phials and packets of medicine, and a lancet or two,
                     which with the peculiar dress of a country physician of the day, consisting of
                     a round hat, blue coat, faced with velvet and finished with large gilt
                     buttons—black breeches, black silk stockings, shoes and
                     immense gilt buckles, completed a sufficient disguise for the business. These
                     latter articles were furnished from the department of the Surgeon General, who,
                     fortunately, was not only enabled to supply the medical part of the
                     requisition, but, also, the very suit needed.
                  A brisk ride of a few miles, brought him in the vicinity of the British guard,
                     on the Kingsbridge road, consisting of a detachment from the "forty second,"
                     better known, at that time, as the "Black Watch"—a remnant of a Highlander
                     Brigade out in '45, under the Pretender, Prince Charles.
                  The commander of the post—a Col. Leslie, who, with the title of Brigadier
                     General, was, nevertheless, a disciplinarian of sufficient strictness to
                     occasionally superintend the operations of his picquets in person, questioned
                     the strange surgeon very closely, but Ki, with all the simplicity of a plain
                     Connecticut Yankee doctor, managed to evade the consequences of the ordeal
                     admirably, and, stating that "bisness was dredful dull deown in Wethersfield
                     and them parts, and that he had invented the wonderful "Miraculum" sarve, which cured all weounds in once greasin', and
                     that, hearin' the Britishers was gittin' pesky hard up deown tew York, 'count
                     o' muskit shots and bagnit stabs, he had tuk the old critter an' jest rid eout,
                     tew see of sumthin' moughtn't be made in the surgin line!"—he was allowed to
                     proceed, with an earnest wish for his success, and a loud guffaw in his rear,
                     as he demurely straightened himself in the saddle, and jogged along. Leslie
                     had, however, previously given him a pass to the city, but not to return, and, as Ki leisurely journeyed down
                     the Bowery—or, as the street was then called, the "Bowerys"—a species of farm
                     grounds and pasture lands—he 
                        encounted
                        encountered
                      the staff of the Commander-in-Chief of the English forces, General
                     Howe, out for an early gallop, to get an appetite for their breakfasts—and was
                     again forced to come to a halt.
                  Just before leaving the camp of the "Black Watch," a gentleman was brought in
                     before Colonel Leslie, who had been taken in an attempt to run the guard, and
                     escape to the American lines, but who was instantly recognised by Ki as the
                     young collegian, Morris, spoken of in the opening chapters A single intelligent
                     glance between the two served as a token of mutual remembrance, and Morris
                     declaring himself to be a physician—which he really was—Colonel Leslie made a
                     formal introduction, in a bantering way, of the two Yankees to each other, Ki
                     Lane being named as "Doctor Ketcham," the soubriquet he had assumed when first
                     challenged. Morris was peremptorily ordered back to the city, without leave to
                     depart, and when Ki met the cortege of General Howe, the daring Continentaller
                     was, of course, "Doctor Ketcham, of Wethersfield," and nobody else. Howe soon
                     rode up himself, attended by several Aids-de-Camp, and, after intently
                     scrutinizing the pass, which, although in the evident handwriting of Colonel
                     Leslie, he seemed to mistrust, at length, after many questions in regard to the
                     strength and position of the rebels under Washington, which were represented by
                     the herculean adventurer as at least twenty thousand strong, admirably posted,
                     with plenty of provisions, powder and ball, and a formidable train of field
                     artillery, and reinforcements coming in every day, Ki Lane once more tightened
                     his rein, and proceeded down town.
                  Ki had stretched the truth tremendously, but he was dealing with a king's
                     officer. His own life depended on the mere film of his disguise, and he felt
                     that, not only physically, but morally, his existence was the property of his
                     country.
                  The stalwart and erect Dr. Ketcham had progressed nearly as far as the present
                     intersection of Prince street with the Bowery, when he suddenly found a hand
                     quietly laid upon his sword arm, and, ere he had time to turn his head, a low
                     "Hist!—don't look at me!" came up to his ear. Ki was momentarily startled, but
                     mechanically obeying the strange injunction, a single glance out of the corner
                     of his right eye revealed a queer-looking object, fantastically dressed, and
                     mounted on a small mule, whose ears laid back on its ill-formed head, betokened
                     the vicious stubbornness of the animal. With its unshod feet and shuffling
                     gait, it had borne its rider—fully as uncouth and shapeless as
                     itself—noiselessly along the country road, in the rear of the adventurous
                     soldier, and not until he felt the slight pressure on his arm was he aware of
                     the proximity of his strange companion.
                  "Look straight ahead, Captain, and listen! I know you, and you
                     have seen me before, I am—"
                  "Who the devil are you?" queried Ki, suspiciously, at the same
                     time loosening a pistol in his holster.
                  "Keep your hands off them barkers, now, Ki Lane—no matter what my
                     name is—I 
                        am am
                        am
                      as strong in the right cause as you are. You were
                     expected, and it is my business to see that you are kept as harmless as
                     possible. For God's sake, no words now!" ejaculated the fellow, seeing Ki was
                     about to speak. "Look right over your beast's ears, as I do, and hear me! You
                     are from the camp above—you have about your person the pass from Washington
                        himself—'A true Tory." I cannot deceive you, but would serve
                     you. Captain Hale has been taken, down below, and will be hung to-morrow
                     morning. You are surrounded by enemies. Watkins, your particular friend, is
                     Sergeant of the guard, and will recognize you instantly!"
                  All this was said in a rapid, but perfectly distinct manner, the lips of the
                     mysterious being scarcely seeming to move, nor would a spectator of the scene
                     ever have suspected that any communication was passing between the twain.
                  Ki, mused an instant, evidently in doubt as to the course he should pursue. It
                     was a fearful errand!—one of the noble hearts engaged at the instance of the
                     Commander in-Chief, was already in deadly peril, and if recognized by a patrol
                     of the King's troops, he felt that his own fate was inevitable.
                  "It's of no use to deliberate, Captain. If I wished to betray you, I could
                     easily give Watkins information which would swing you on the same gallows with
                     poor Hale, to-morrow morning—but follow me. For the sake of your
                        life, you must take up your quarters in "Cunningham's Tavern"*
                        for a night or two at least. But hark!—do you hear that drum?"
                  
                     
                     *The Provost prison, under Cunningham, the Provost Marshal, was called in
                        derision, by many Americans there imprisoned, "Cunningham's Tavern."
                  
                  "Yes!"
                  "It is the signal for doubling the guards. Gen. Howe has received information
                     which leads him to fear some serious affair, even here in the city, and all the
                     troops will be under arms before midnight. Follow me!"
                  Striking directly across the island, they left the Bowery behind, and reached a
                     lane, which then ran in the direction of Broadway, from the old Bloomingdale
                     road. At the head of this road were a few rough barracks and a gate. A
                     detachment from the forty-second regiment was here, stationed under the command
                     of Major Maxwell.
                  The companion of Ki dismounted at the gate, amid the laughter of the soldiers
                     off duty, who appeared to know him well, and went immediately to the quarters
                     of the commanding officer.
                  In about fifteen minutes, he returned with orders for a file of men to guard
                     Ki, as a prisoner, to the Provost prison. The latter, as a matter of necessity,
                     submitted to the fate he expected, and, after the customary challenges, and
                     unlocking of ponderous doors, Ki found himself in the presence of the brutal
                     Cunningham, a prisoner, and not a very willing ing one. On looking around, he
                     perceived the stranger had disappeared.
                  The Prevost, or old jail, was a building, the interior of which differed
                     somewhat from its present appearance as the Hall of Records.
                  It was filled in 1776 with cells, some of which were under ground. The keeper
                     was William Cunningham, an Irishman by birth, a man of large frame and high
                     stature, and nature had given him a most brutal disposition.
                  He was a scoundrel from birth—there was no species of cruelty that he did not
                     practice toward all the unfortunate Americans who fell into his control.
                     Avaricious, cruel, treacherous and of low education, there was nothing he would
                     not stoop to.
                  It was in the presence of this man Ki found himself. Ki had heard of him, and
                     knew somewhat his character. He had not observed, that his singular companion,
                     who had brought him there, handed Cunningham a slip of paper, before he so
                     suddenly disappeared.
                  "Treat him well—Yankee doctor, come to attend on some of his
                     countrymen—eccentric, strange man—quite distinguished," muttered Cunningham, as
                     he read over the paper, yet loud enough to be heard by Ki.
                  "Take this Dr. Ketcham back to one of the cells," said Cunningham, calling an
                     Orderly. "Watch him carefully, and if he attempts to escape, shoot him
                     down!"
                  "I am no prisoner," said Ki, anxious to ascertain the exact position in which
                     he stood.
                  "You are a prisoner as long as you remain under my charge. This order is to
                     allow you to visit the sick, not to insult me, or the commission I bear, under
                     the sign manual of royalty itself."
                  "You are a brute!" muttered Ki, between his closed teeth, but checking himself,
                     by the consideration that he had no right to attempt the redress of his own
                     private wrongs, so long as his country needed all his services, he
                     suffered the insult to pass without further comment, and followed the Sergeant
                     to the lockup.
                  On the walls of the cell were scratched a few names, some of the writers of
                     which were imprisoned prior to the revolution. The others had been written but
                     a few days before, and it would appear that some of them left the cell for the
                     gallows. Trials were brief then—a kind of drum-head court-martial, and a few
                     hours after, the man swung from the "gallows tree."
                  Strange, strange times were those of the revolution. In many cases, justice, on
                     either side, was out of the question. "Lynch law," as known in our days, was
                     then exercised with greater impunity, for civil war raged among our own
                     people.
                  Ki read these names with a strange sort of interest, one or two of the men
                     whose names were recorded here, were known to him by association, they had
                     belonged to the same regiment, and had been taken prisoners at Long Island.
                     Perhaps his fate might be the same, for it was evident they had suffered the
                     death of violence.
                  At length, night began to fall. The cell in which he was confined had a
                     grating, that extended a few feet, near the top of the cell, admitting some
                     beams of daylight, ere Sol descended in the west. Gradually, this light faded
                     away, and Ki was left in total darkness. He laid down on the bundle of straw,
                     and, believing that he was not to be taken from the cell that night, at least,
                     prepared himself for slumber. The footsteps of the various sentinels were
                     heard, on their lonely rounds; and soon he was buried in slumber.
                  It was the night of the memorable 21st of September, 1776. How long Ki had been
                     asleep he knew not, but he was awakened by the ringing of bells, the firing of
                     guns, and a great commotion all around. What could it mean?
                  Presently, a brilliant light streamed through the outer grating of his cell. At
                     times, the light was brighter than others, but the reflection continued steady.
                     Then rose the cry of "fire, fire," from many voices, and the sound of men
                     rushing towards the scene, was distinctly heard.
                  "Turn out all the prison guard you can spare with safety," cried some one,
                     evidently in authority.
                  "It shall be done at once, sir," said a voice in reply, which Ki recognized as
                     Cunningham's.
                  "Half the city is burning down, and I wish you to make haste. If you have any
                     spies, or men of that character in prison, look well to them, Cunningham," said
                     the same voice, "the cursed rebels have set the city on fire to prevent us from
                     having winter quarters, but the d—d scoundrels shall pay for it."
                  "I've got a precious lot of 'em in here, Major Baird, and, to-morrow, a pick
                     can be taken, I assure you, of the veriest rebels, scoundrels and rogues in
                     existence."
                  "Look well to them, Cunningham, and, by-the-bye, see that that Captain, who was
                     tried this afternoon, be hung to-morrow morning. What was his name?"
                  "Hale, sir, I think—Nathan Hale. Oh! yes, that's it—it's here on the
                     record."
                  "Very well, see now that it be done at daybreak General Howe may change his
                     approval before morning. If the rebels wish to burn us out, we'll hang them
                     out. Come, guard, fall in. Orderly, march them immediately down to the vicinity
                     of the fire, and, if you see a rebel skulking anywhere, who you think has been
                     concerned in this fire business, shoot him down at once. I have no mercy for
                     such rebellious rascals."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *This Major Baird belonged to the seventy-first. He was a Scotchman, and,
                        for his cruelty, was a disgrace to the country that gave him birth.
                  
                  Ki felt a shudder pass through his frame, as he heard these words spoken. Not
                     for himself, but for Hale. The young officer was a prisoner then, and sentenced
                     to die! Horrid thought!—and that a British officer should so coolly order such
                     doings, for fear that his superior might alter his mind, after sustaining the
                     decision of the court martial. It was making cruelty still more cruel.
                  "I must have an interview with Hale," he muttered to himself, and then he
                        commenced kicking furiously
                     against the door of his own cell.
                  In a short time, one of the keepers of the Provost, a creature of Cunningham's,
                     came to the door and said, without unlocking it:
                  "What do you mean by making such an uproar?"
                  "I want to see Captain Cunningham immediately," boldly answered Ki.
                  "You can't see him," was the reply.
                  "Why not?"
                  "There is a great fire in the city, and he is now on the top of the
                     prison."
                  "Go, immediately, and tell your master, Cunningham, that I have matters of
                     importance to communicate, that will save the city from destruction. Don't
                     hesitate a moment—the case is a desperate one."
                  Very shortly, Cunningham himself appeared at the door, and unlocked it, and let
                     out the prisoner.
                  Ki stepped from his cell, without hesitation, and followed Cunningham. They
                     ascended the different stories of the building until they reached the top. The
                     scene was as sublime as it was awful.
                  The lower part of the town appeared to be one mass of flame. Bright lines, as
                     if of lightning, would suddenly rise in the air, and then sink, while the
                     flashing embers rose higher and higher towards the heavens.*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *This fire was, for the period, as destructive, or more so, in regard to
                        buildings, than the great fire of 1835. About 800 houses were burned, on
                        the night of the 21st of September, 1776
                  
                  After very carefully scrutinizing the appearance of the conflagration, the
                     giant doctor very coolly informed the Provost Marshal that he could not, from
                     that elevated spot, show him anything material! or advise aught, save a plenty
                     of water to put the fire out!
                  "Why, you infernal rebel!" gasped Cunningham, choking with rage. "Do you intend
                     to fool me in this way?"
                  "Never you mind about the infernal," retorted Ki, with as much
                     calmness as he could summon. "You see, Mr. Provost Marshal, I've a great
                     dislike to the air of that cell. In the way of my profession, sir, I should
                     pronounce it decidedly unwholesome!"
                  "We'll try it! we'll try it!" yelled the brute. "This way, you slab-sided pill
                     vender!" and Cunningham led the way to the cells below.
                  If Ki had followed the impulse of the moment, there would have been another
                     Provost Marshal to officiate, the next morning, at the execution of the gallant
                     young Patriot, who was then immured in one of the most filthy dungeons beneath,
                     but swallowing his indignation, he followed the bloated villain to the
                     corridor.
                  "To the worst cell in the prison you go this instant!" said Cunningham, almost
                     foaming at the mouth.
                  "You dare not do such a thing now. I appeal to you, sir, as an officer, in the
                     service of your king, if I, who came in under a free pass, am to be made the
                     subject of this man's ill treatment?"
                  This part of the language he used was addressed by Ki to a fine-looking
                     officer, in the English uniform, who was walking backwards and forwards along
                     the corridor, his left elbow in a sling, for the balance of his arm was
                     wanting.
                  "Certainly not," was the reply of the personage to whom he spoke, "if you came
                     in under such a pass."
                  "I did, sir."
                  "How is this, Cunningham?" he asked, sharply.
                  "I have only to say, Captain Anstruther,*
                      that I received special orders to keep this man for several days under
                     close observation, and not permit him to leave the prison, but by special
                     order."
                  
                     
                     *Captain Anstruther was a gentleman and a soldier. He belonged to the
                        Guards. He fell, many years after, at the head of his regiment, (as
                        Colonel) at the battle of Corunna, in Spain.
                  
                  "All correct, Cunningham, but you should treat every prisoner with respect and
                     attention, particularly, when one is put here under such circumstances. I have
                     no right to interfere with your duties, but still, my position and rank do not
                     fail to keep me from giving a word or so of advice."
                  "Be that as it may, Captain, about being right or wrong, I have a paper here to
                     send one rebel officer after some of his friends in the lower regions. That is
                     the Captain who was tried by Court Martial last night."
                  "Poor fellow, poor fellow," said Captain Anstruther, "when is he to be
                     executed?"
                  "To-morrow morning, at daylight, the warrant reads. I'll see that he's swung
                     off, the rebel scoundrel, at the proper time."
                  "His name, who, what is it?" said Ki, with deep anxiety.
                  "It reads here in the warrant, Nathan Hale, Captain in the rebel service, tried
                     as a spy, and found guilty. He dies to-morrow morning, as sure as my name is
                     Bill Cunningham."
                  "Good God!" said Ki, with sudden vehemence.
                  "Ah! ha! so you know him?" said the brutal Cunningham.
                  "I did know an officer of that name. Is it wrong for one to know any of his
                     countrymen? May I have the privilege of seeing him?"
                  "As for myself, you have free permission, but the power of granting it rests
                     with Cunningham yonder, he being Provost Marshal. What say you,
                     Cunningham?"
                  "No! the fellow insulted me, and no rebel shall see him," replied the fiend,
                     sternly, if there can be a fiend in the shape of mortal being.
                  "Can I not obtain an interview with Captain Hale in any way?" inquired Ki of
                     Captain Anstruther.
                  "No. I have no right to give any such authority. This poor Captain of your
                     party, Continentals, rebels, or any other name that we choose to call you,
                     will, without doubt, be hung at sunrise. Come, let us go to the top of the
                     prison, and see the fire that is now devastating this unfortunate city."
                  Ki followed the Captain, and resumed the position he occupied when he was
                     before on top of the building. The heavens were all in a glow. It was a warm
                     September night, and perfectly clear.
                  The conflagration was very rapid, and the distant hum of the multitude,
                     together with the soldiery, all of whom endeavored to conquer the flames, could
                     be distinctly heard. The falling of walls, the cries of the sufferers, the long
                     drawn out voice of "fire," echoing and re-echoing, were truly awful.
                  Nor was this all. Many a citizen, who happened to be loyal—that is, a tory of
                     that day—when taken hold of by the infuriated soldiery, was cast into the
                     flames, without any trial whatever.
                  Some would plead loudly for mercy, but no mercy did they get, loudly as they
                     cried for it, and asked it on account of their loyalty. In this extremity, when
                     even martial law was outraged, who could bring the guilty to
                     trial? Stores and houses were broken into with impunity, for where were the
                     judges or jury?
                  One instance is related where a man who was one of the most loyal men in the
                     city—a man who had done everything to aid the cause of George the Third—was
                     hung up at a lamppost, in front of his own door, by some of the British
                     soldiers!
                  "This is a terrible scene!" said Captain Anstruther, when they stood on the top
                     of the old Provost, looking in the direction of the fire.
                  "Yes, it is so, indeed. Hark to the crackling sounds, as they come up
                     Broadway!"
                  Gradually came on that stream of fire, but with sure and certain destruction!
                     From time to time, the rapid beat of the drum and the sound of the trumpet were
                     heard, as the soldiers were driven from their barracks by this new enemy. It
                     went on, moment by moment, like an angry serpent.
                  A distant crash! The steeple of old Trinity had fallen beneath the maddened and
                     raging element! Then next was heard the tramp of armed men, arriving from
                     distant positions, to aid in subduing its terrible march of destruction.
                  "Is it possible your countrymen have anything to do with this business?" said
                     Captain Anstruther, turning to Ki.
                  "None at all, depend upon it, unless some base wretches, who belong to no side
                     except the one of plunder, may be concerned in it. There are rogues and
                     villains in all nations."
                  "Surely, I cannot believe that Washington has directed anything of this kind,"
                     Captain Anstruther said, in a tone as if more intended for his own ear than any
                     one else, and yet spoken loud enough for Ki to hear.
                  "General Washington has no miscreants in his employ," said Ki, proudly.
                  "No, I did not mean what I said—it was abrupt on my part to be spoken before an
                     American officer, and intended as no reflection—forgive me."
                  "I do, I do," said Ki. "Captain Anstruther, some day I may be enabled to do you
                     a favor that you will remember. But, I forgot," he said, gradually resuming his
                     assumed character, "I am a doctor, and I come to visit my sick countrymen, and
                     relieve them in prison, so I must leave this view of the fire, and go-down
                     again to see if that—no matter, I'll not speak ugly names—Cunningham will give
                     me leave."
                  "That he dare not refuse. By the recognised laws of war, a surgeon or physician
                     of the greatest enemy is allowed to attend upon the wounded of their own
                     countrymen."
                  "Such was my opinion," said Ki.
                  "Yes, and here's one who'll not want your attendance, I guess, in a few hours,"
                     exclaimed a brutal-toned voice—it was that of Cunningham. "There," said he, as
                     he pointed to the raging flames, "take your last gaze, my young Yankee—at
                     daylight you die!"
                  Ki looked at the young prisoner that Cunningham had brought up to scoff at
                     because his days were numbered. The person was Captain Hale.
                  Ki at once advanced to Hale, for his situation was precarious, and said:
                  "Perhaps you don't recollect me, Captain Hale. I'm Dr. Ketcham, of
                     Wethersfield."
                  "Yes, I remember, I have seen you before," replied the young officer, with the
                     utmost calmness. He at once understood the position of Ki. "You are here on
                     professional business, I suppose?"
                  "Yes, that's my business. To attend my sick countrymen, and acquire from the
                     British medical gentlemen a greater knowledge of the sublime science of
                     surgery."
                  "You will, no doubt, find plenty of employment. I, however, shall have no need
                     of your services, my days are numbered."
                  "Yes, you d—d spy, your hours and minutes are counted. You die at early
                     daylight. The Court Martial has fixed your business, and Sir William Howe has
                     signed your death-warrant."
                  "Be it as God disposes," Hale replied, in tones which brought tears into the
                     eyes of the British captain, Anstruther.
                  "Keep up your spirits, my young soldier," he said, "I know your doom is fixed,
                     and I was one of the Court Marshall that convicted you. You confessed your
                     errand, and, by the laws of war, your life was forfeited. We could bring in no
                     other verdict."
                  "Very true," was the reply of Hale.
                  "Yes, you know your crime, truly, you d—d rebel."
                  "Cunningham," said Anstruther, in calm but firm tones, "you disgrace the
                     country to which you belong. You hold a commission of some rank, which gives
                     you the position of a gentleman. Strive, then, if your education and
                     association have not been with that class, to prove yourself, at least, a
                        man."
                  Cunningham boiled over with rage. He was the son of a trumpeter in the "Blue
                     Dragoons," and this allusion to his low birth made him doubly mad.
                  "Captain Anstruther, you have interfered with my duties before, and I'll not
                     stand it. I'll complain to General Howe. You appear to be half rebel yourself,
                     and take part with them on all occasions."
                  "You are an insolent fellow, as all cruel men are. Beware, unless I
                        complain to General Howe before you."
                  Ki had doubled his fist, for the purpose of
                      knocking Cunningham down again, but
                     Hale, by a single motion, restrained him.
                  "Cunningham," said poor Hale, in tones which the brutal Provost Master long
                     after remembered, "you will be an unfortunate being through life. You will be
                     malicious as well as cruel; avarice will not be the least of your faults. You
                     will be despised from those whom, from your station, are partly compelled to
                     associate with you. None will love or respect you. You will become to your own
                     children a disgrace and reproach. You will be a disgusting thing upon earth, to
                     yourself and to all men that have ever associated with you. You will commit
                     some crime that will end your life upon the gallows!"
                  Singular prediction! singular result! If the records of the past are to be
                     relied upon, Cunningham thus died!
                  
                  "Scapegoat of hell! liar! rebel rogue!—the hangman's fee! Dare you, a prisoner,
                     talk to me in this way?"
                  "Dare! What honest man would not dare to talk to you—the scum of the country
                     which gave you birth?"
                  As Hale said this, Cunningham advanced with the large key of the Provost in his
                     hand, as if to strike him.
                  "Stop!" said Ki, in a voice of thunder; "if you touch that man I'll throw you
                     off the roof of the prison."
                  As he said this, he took up Cunningham, large as he was, and, moving a few
                     steps, held him like a child over the ridge of the roof.
                  "I'll not do it, I'll not do it," cried the miscreant, like a whipped child;
                     "place me back, for heaven's sake."
                  "I'll place you back, but not for the sake of heaven; rather for the sake of
                     hell, for that is the only kingdom that will belong to you after death."
                  No sooner was the brutal keeper released, than he at once, when beyond the
                     reach of Ki, commenced abusing him in language of no very decent nature.
                  Cunningham, in early life, had been the associate of the vilest company, being,
                     by nature, a dissipated and low-minded man. He knew the Billingsgate dictionary
                     to perfection, and could apply it well.
                  Ki listened to it for a while, laughing for some portion of the time at the
                     curious language he heard.
                  "Oh! laugh, you long-legged Yankee—laugh. You are a doctor, you say; you came
                     into prison with a permit. See how you'll get out, that's all. Do you see all
                     these flames burning furiously—the city on fire? Look out that you don't get
                     tried in the morning—there is a gallows out yonder will bear two as well as
                     one. Perhaps you may be one of the acorns. Only yesterday morning seven were
                     strung up—rascally rebels they were, convicted of every crime, because I was
                     judge and jury. Look out for yourself, then, Mr. Doctor!"
                  "Ruffian, miserable ruffian," said Anstruther, in a low tone. "Had I the
                     influence with General Howe that I once had, you
                        would no longer hold your office, and this 
                     life should be saved."
                  Ki heard the latter part of this speech, and, advancing, said:
                  "Why not strive to save him?"
                  "For two reasons—one that I cannot leave this Bastile without the
                     permission of that fellow yonder, for, while on duty here, I am under his
                     control. With him rests the privilege of opening the doors after the night
                     guard is set. The other is, that I had some difficulty with General Howe, in
                     regard to the treatment of some of the prisoners taken on Long Island. Perhaps
                     I was too lenient, according to the notions of the General and his tory
                     advisers, as your people call them. I have already made application for leave
                     to return to England. If the request is not complied with, I shall, like the
                     Earl of Effingham,*
                        resign my commission."
                  
                     
                     *The Earl of Effingham, who was Colonel of one of the British regiments,
                        resigned his commission when ordered to duty in America, for the reason
                        that he considered the war unjust.
                  
                  "But is there no way of your communicating with General Howe?" inquired Ki,
                     with anxiety.
                  "None that I can find out. If there were, it would be of no use, for the
                     reasons I have just stated."
                  "Then he must die, in the first flushings of youth?"
                  "Yes."
                  "He has parents and sisters to mourn his loss—how terrible will be the
                     blow!"
                  "Such is the fate and fortune of war."
                  "It is horrible to think of, and so soon—but a few hours."
                  "Yes."
                  "Where is the gallows situated, by which these executions are carried out?"
                  "You see from the back of the prison, where the flames reflect upon the raised
                     beams."
                  Ki looked in the direction pointed out, and beheld the spot described, as the
                     light flickered upon the gallows. He could also see distinctly the halter, by
                     which the victim is raised. A shudder passed through his frame, it was not the
                     shudder of cowardice, no! no! far from it, it was for Hale.
                  As Ki turned to speak to Captain Anstruther, he observed Hale looking in the
                     same direction. His face displayed unusual calmness, there appeared to be no
                     emotion in him.
                  "That, then, is the spot?"
                  He pointed with his finger in the direction of the gallows.
                  "Don't say so—perhaps there may be a respite."
                  "No," he said, in a low tone, to escape the hearing of Cunningham, "a few
                     hours, and I shall be no more, but I shall die for the 'good old cause.' Put
                     your ear nearer," he said, in a whisper, "I have asked for a bible, even that
                     consolation is denied me, I have written two letters, one to my parents, the
                     other to my sisters, but I have every reason to believe that they will be, if
                     they are not already destroyed. I will tell you what I have discovered among
                     the enemy, their positions and intended movements—"
                  "Come, come, no communications," said Cunningham, whose quick eye and ear had
                     detected the two. "I think Dr. Ketcham ain't what he pretends to be, so, both
                     of you descend."
                  As he said this, he placed himself between them, and, therefore, further
                     conversation was impossible. Violence towards Cunningham was useless; because,
                     however successful as regarded him, escape was impossible.
                  "Go quietly," said Captain Anstruther, who perceived that Ki was getting
                     enraged; "there is no necessity for resistance, it would be my duty to protect
                     this man, brute as he is, with the prison guard."
                  They all descended, and before Hale was consigned to his cell, he had the
                     opportunity for the last time of grasping the hand of Ki, saying,
                  "I shall die like a man and a Christian."
                  By the remonstrance of Captain Anstruther against the imprisonment of Ki, the
                     latter was permitted to take up his quarters for the night in the same room
                     with himself. They conversed on a variety of subjects, and from the Captain, Ki
                     obtained the particulars of Hale's capture.
                  They were these. Hale had been taken at a place called the "Cedars," not far
                     from Sandy Hook. He had been through the camp of the enemy on Long Island, had
                     crossed over with the British army unrecognized, for he was considered one of
                     the country camp followers, and was allowed all the indulgences usual on such
                     occasions.
                  He had been an eye witness of the battle of Long Island. He had seen all the
                     manœuvres of the enemy after that battle. He had noticed, with the glance of a
                     true soldier, although one of little experience, the various movements of the
                     British Commander-in-Chief.
                  He had made memorandums of their different situations, the number of the guns,
                     and taken drawings of the different situations of the works which had been
                     established, together with the number in each garrison; in fact, he had been
                     too particular. Nothing had escaped his observation, that could benefit the
                     great cause in which he was engaged.
                  Things were so situated that he had no chance to escape through New York Island
                     to the American camp, at Fort Washington, without being recognized by some of
                     the tory guards who infested the upper part of the island, and he well knew
                     that the papers would be the signal for his instant death if taken.
                  He re-crossed to Long Island, got on board a man-of-war's boat below the
                     Narrows, was taken over to the "Cedars," and safely landed, intending to pass
                     through Staten Island to the Jersey shore, and then make his way up, so as to
                     cross Westchester county, and join Washington, who had just began to move most
                     of his troops across Harlem river.
                  On reaching the "Cedars," by one of those singular circumstances in which fate
                     seems to follow destiny, he was recognized by a tory on guard, and immediately
                     arrested, not, however, until he had succeeded in destroying the papers about
                     him.
                  It is said that he was recognised by a tory relative. We can hardly believe
                     this to be true. At any rate, the man who did recognise, knew him too well for
                     Hale to attempt deception, if he so felt inclined.
                  But he was not a man of that character. He had been religiously brought up.
                     With him, truth was the great accompaniment, with valor and bravery. He was
                     taken to New York, a brief court martial was ordered, and his own confession,
                     that he "came into the British camp to learn the number of their forces,
                     situation and intentions," of course, allowed but one verdict.
                  When asked by the judge advocate of the court if he had any defence to make, he
                     answered:
                  "None—I came into your camp to endeavor to benefit my poor country, and, I
                     suppose, being an officer in her service, my life must pay the forfeit. I have
                     no right, gentlemen of the court, to ask your favor, nor do I request it. I am
                     prepared for the sentence."
                  He was found guilty of being a spy, and sentenced to be hung, at such time as
                     the Commander-in-Chief, General Howe, should deem fit.
                  "I am sorry," replied the noble-hearted young fellow, "that I have but
                        one life to lay down for my country!"
                  
                     Andre would never have been hung, but for this sentence of Hale's!
                     Washington never forgot or forgave it.
                  Day was just beginning to dawn, when Ki was aroused from his sleep in the
                     quarters of Captain Anstruther, by the cry of Cunningham, "Turn out on
                     sergeant's guard." Both himself and the captain had laid down in their
                     different cots without undressing.
                  "Is that the signal of the execution?" said Ki.
                  "Yes, come with me into the corridor."
                  They stepped out of the room, and the sergeant's guard were seen drawn up in
                     line, loading their muskets. This done, they were ordered to fix bayonets.
                  In a few moments after, Cunningham appeared with his prisoner. Hale's wrists
                     were pinioned, but his countenance bore the same calm smile as before. The
                     guard was ordered in file, and Hale placed in the centre. Cunningham was in
                     front. As the tyrannical keeper gave orders to "march," and unlooked the
                     ponderous door, Hale turned round and said, in the firmest tones, to Ki,
                  "Remember what I have said to you."
                  Ki's voice was choked; he could make no reply.
                  Tramp! tramp! fainter and fainter came the retreating sound of the soldiers'
                     footsteps—they were gone.
                  In the course of twenty minutes, they returned. Hale was swinging, a lifeless
                     corse, under the GALLOWS!
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXV.
                  The remainder of the day passed heavily with Ki, who impatiently paced the
                     corridor, unable to get a glimpse of what was passing around and outside. That
                     the conflagration was still progressing, he knew from the heavy volumes of stifling smoke, which, at intervals,
                     blew into the high grated windows at either end of the long hall, and the noise
                     and shouts—the beating of drums, and the dull but heavy sounds of distant
                     explosions, as building after building was blown up, by the soldiery, in the
                     vain hope of staying the flames, made it too apparent that a terrible work was
                     being consummated in the city.
                  Once or twice he essayed a question of the guards, but they were nearly as
                     sullen and brutal as the heartless Provost Marshal, their master, and, finally
                     despairing of further intelligence, towards evening, he flung himself,
                     listlessly, upon a wooden bench, and essayed to sleep.
                  Ki had fasted since the morn, nothing but a jug of water being furnished him.
                     Cunningham had not returned, the imminent danger, on account of the fire,
                     requiring his presence in the lower wards, but just as the sun went down—the
                     last slant ray shining into the corridor, high upon the wall—a sudden commotion
                     among the under officers and the quick unbarring of doors indicated something
                     more than ordinary. In a moment or two, Cunningham himself entered, beastly
                     drunk, and shoving before him a young man, who, in spite of his
                     closely-pinioned arms and the hat slouched over his features, Ki instantly
                     recognized as Morris, the collegiate companion of Burnham, ere the outbreak of
                     the war, and who, it will be recollected, had been sent back to the city, by
                     General Leslie, when, a day or two back, he met Ki at the outposts of the
                     British army.
                  "Lie there! you infernal rebel reprobate!" yelled Cunningham, giving the
                     youthful physician a shove towards the bench on which Ki was reclining.
                  "I hung one of your rascally devil's spawn this morning, and I hope to see the
                     brace of ye on the same beam, at to-morrow's sunrise!"
                  "Is Captain Hale dead?"—questioned Ki, starting to his feet.
                  "Dead! yes, and half rotten by this time!—Doctor Ketcham, you
                     can't cure his disease, nor, Doctor Morris,
                        you can't either! I've got orders from General
                     Howe to hang both you Doctors, before to-morrow noon, and damn me! if you ever
                     hear another King's reveille!"
                  "What's this, sir?—what do you mean by such language!" exclaimed
                     Ki, whose stout heart grew somewhat quicker in its beats, from a realization
                     that he was in the power of a fiend almost, who, if he had the authority to
                     work him harm, would not fail to exercise it.
                  "Simply just so, young gentlemen," responded the Provost Marshall,
                     assuming an air of drunken gravity, and an accent of much deliberation.
                  "It—has—been—as—ascertained that this—this Doctor Morris was
                     found, skulking round one of the burning houses in Queen
                     street—he—was—caught—tother day, trying to escape to the rebels,
                     and sent back, and having been de—detected coming out
                     of a house, just on fire, I got orders to lock him up, and hang him—hang
                     him—soon as possible!"
                  "Impossible!" said Ki, making a sudden movement towards Cunningham.
                  "It is a brutal lie!' ejaculated poor Morris, whose hat having fallen off,
                     showed his features grimed with smoke and dust, and his hair singed, as though
                     he had, in reality, run a fiery gauntlet. "The house is my own—or, rather my
                     father's, who was forced to fly for his life when the Hessians took up their
                     quarters in our street!"
                  "Put them both in the condemned cell!" roared the Provost Marshal, turning to a
                     soldier, in undress uniform, who had just entered. "Take both these rebels down
                     to the room which the psalm-singing Yankee Captain occupied, until he got his
                     neck stretched! There'll be more hemp-pulling in less than twelve hours!"
                  "Villain! you dare not!" said Ki, griping Cunningham by the
                     collar. "I am here, as a physician, under a pass from General Leslie, and with
                     the consent and approval of General Howe himself!"
                  "Unhand me! you rebel rascal! Orderly, iron this fellow!"
                  But the clutch of the giant Continentaller was too strong, and, in spite of the
                     efforts of Morris, who interfered, knowing the utter 
                        hopelessnes
                        hopelessness
                      of resistance, and of two or three under keepers, who rushed to the
                     rescue of their master, Ki would, most assuredly, have brained the scoundrel
                     against the walls of his own prison, had not a sudden turn been given to the
                     affair, by the entrance of two more individuals, one of whom was a most
                     repulsive looking object, coarsely dressed, his bare head covered with a
                     profusion of red shaggy hair, while the wide, parted lips, protruding teeth and
                     sunken eyes, overhung by immense foxy eyebrows, betrayed at once the presence
                     of Burnham's villanous Westchester guide, Sim Westervelt. He was securely
                     pinioned, and, from a deep sabre cut in one cheek, the blood was slowly
                     oozing.
                  The other was a fair young girl, apparently scarcely fifteen, who, the instant
                     she saw Morris—uttering a wild cry of recognition—sprung to his arms, and, with
                     a choking sob of "Richard, save me!" clung to his neck with the desperation of
                     despair.
                  "Margaret, what brings you here?—tell me, dearest! No one shall
                     harm you!"
                  "Oh! Richard! Richard!—don't ask me now!—any place but the streets! I've seen
                     such—such—oh! my poor mother!"—and the weeping girl sank speechless, and
                     seemingly lifeless, in the arms of the physician
                  "Water!—quick—water!" ejaculated Morris, but Ki was at his elbow with the jug
                     before the words escaped his lips, having pitched the Provost Marshal into one
                     corner of the corridor, where, as he slowly regained his feet, he stood foaming
                     at the mouth and cursing, in impotent rage.
                  "You damned rebel vagabond! Seize him, men! The infernal villain, to—to assault
                     a king's officer. Doctor Ketcham, ha! I know you! Put
                     him below, I say! He's a sneaking spy! Captain, DOCTOR Ketcham!
                     perhaps your name is not Hezekiah Lane—Captain Ki Lane, of
                     Washington's Life Guard! Yes, you infernal rebel rat, I've got you now; and may
                     hell roast my bones if you don't swing before daybreak!"
                  Ki was startled, and well he might be, since he thought his disguise so
                     complete that no one within the British lines could penetrate it.
                  But the case of Margaret was too imminent to admit of hesitation, and not until
                     after bathing her forehead repeatedly, and sprinkling water over her features,
                     did she give evidence of returning consciousness.
                  Ki then turned to Cunningham, and making a stride towards the wretch, he was
                     about to grapple with him again, when he was suddenly seized from behind by
                     three or four of the subordinates, who, by this time, had entered the
                     apartment, attracted by the noise, and, in less than a minute, he was heavily
                     hand-cuffed and manacled, a stunning blow on the temple, from an iron bar,
                     depriving him of sense or motion.
                  It was an hour after midnight when he awoke, as from a deep trance, to find
                     himself in the arms of Morris, in a dark room, with a small, soft hand gently
                     chafing his neck and head!
                  "Put him down on the straw, Richard," whispered a low, musical voice—"the hard
                     breathing has stopped, and he is coming to!"
                  "Ki—Captain Lane—do you know me?" asked Morris, with much solicitude.
                  "Yes, Doctor. Give me a drink."
                  A long draught of cool water went down Ki's throat, who instantly felt the
                     benefit of the hydropathic dose.
                  "How do you feel, Captain?"
                  "Well, my head feels a little queer,—but—curse the scoundrels!—I'm ironed hand
                     and foot!"
                  "Keep quiet, Lane! There's a sentry just outside the cell door, who overhears
                     all we say!" cautioned Morris, in a low tone.
                  "We are in poor Hale's cell. Cunningham is asleep, and, through the kindness of
                     a soldier, who seems more humane than the rest of these rascally brutes,
                     Margaret has been permitted to assist me in endeavoring to resuscitate you. The
                     fellow dropped a key on the floor, before he went out, which, perhaps, will fit
                     your irons, and, if such be the fact, your limbs will soon be at liberty."
                  "Here it is," said Margaret, and, kneeling by the side of the half conscious
                     patriot, the girl applied a small instrument to the iron bracelets which
                     confined Ki's hands, and he soon had the pleasure of seeing the disgraceful
                     fetters drop from his wrists.
                  "It's of no use!" Margaret exclaimed, after trying the key for some minutes on
                     the lock of the manacles around his ankles. "The key don't fit."
                  "Never you mind! my girl!" replied Ki—"I'm awful hungry, and should like a
                     bite. Is there any thing in the shape of rations about?"
                  "We didn't think you would need much of that sort, Captain, but somebody shoved
                     in a plate of pork and beans a short time since, and if you've an appetite for
                     such provender, here it is!"
                  "Pork and beans!—my mother's own dish!—hand it this way,
                     doctor—I'm rather light in the upper story but—hang or no hang—I must fill up
                     the bread-basket!"
                  The meal was not a long one, but Ki seemed to relish it amazingly, and, for a
                     man so recently insensible from a severe blow, he ate with remarkable
                     relish.
                  The cell was a narrow stone apartment, with an arched ceiling. A lamp hung at
                     some distance off, along the corridor, but its light was of little use to the
                     inmates of the hole we are speaking of, since its rays fell all too much aslant
                     to even throw a single gleam upon the bars of the grated door, which, securely
                     locked, confined the prisoners. There was a sort of dusky twilight, however,
                     within the cell, and, after Ki had finished his simple supper, his eye
                     gradually began to be accustomed to the surrounding objects.
                  "Morris!" said Ki, in a whisper, "you say this is Hale's cell—perhaps there may
                     be something inside, of service to the good cause," and slowly, the eye of the
                     adventurous Captain ranged along the walls and ceiling of the narrow room.
                     "There's a fresh mark, with a coal, down across those stones," said he,
                     addressing Morris, after a close scrutiny, "the tory whelps took all his
                     papers, but no man, in this struggle, quits the world without leaving his
                        mark behind. See if one of the blocks is not loose."
                  Morris carefully examined the wall, and, after some effort, 
                        suceeded
                        succeeded
                      in displacing a square stone—at the termination of the coal
                     trace—which fell heavily upon the flinty floor.
                  "Roll it this way," said Ki, and, turning the inside face to the faint light
                     which came through the gratings, he examined it closely and attentively for
                     some minutes.
                  "It's just what I am here for!" was the final exclamation, in a low tone, "Hale
                     was a patriot to the last. 'C and H'—that means Clinton and Howe,
                     '14000'—'attack on A L.' 'American lines, Oct. 1st'—'B coming through from C.'
                     What does that mean?"
                  "Oh, that's Burgoyne's inroad from Canada, with the Hessians and Indians,"
                     rejoined Morris.
                  "Ah, yes, well, but the Green Mountain Boys will take care of
                        them! 'Fifty pieces—10s—18s, and sixes, parked on Kingsbridge
                     road—Long Island nearly clear of British—no attempt to cross to Jerseys—Howe
                     fascinated with Mrs. — a true tory.'"
                  "Right!—right!"—exclaimed Ki, rolling the stone towards Morris—"put it back
                     again, Doctor. I've got the whole thing here," placing the
                     forefinger of his right hand on his swollen head. "Poor Hale knew his fate, but
                     he would not die without a sign! I suppose the villains will hang
                     us on the same gallows to-morrow, but anyhow, I'm going to have one good nap
                     first!" and Ki stretched himself in one corner of the cell, while Morris, after
                     a brief conference with the young girl, laid down opposite, Margaret seating
                     herself against the grating of the door, where she sobbed herself to sleep like
                     a tired child.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXXVI.
                  On the night when the great fire commenced, there was a singular company
                     assembled in the magnificent mansion, No. 64 Queen street—the dwelling which
                     the patriotic Morris family had so recently quitted.
                  Old Mother Gatchell seated in one of the best parlors, and arrayed in a costly
                     silk, taken from one of the wardrobes, was sipping a negus from a quaintly
                     carved silver drinking cup, with Margaret, on a low stool at her elbow, her
                     fair brow resting on her delicate palm, the arm being supported in her lap. De
                     Heister had retired, and Major Abercrombie was in his room, up-stairs dressing
                     for 
                        a a
                        a
                      ball about to be given by one of the loyalist families, to which all
                     the principal officers of his Majesty's forces had been invited.
                  At a side table were three men, engaged in throwing dice, the board being
                     covered with the remnants of a seemingly plentiful repast, while sundry bottles
                     and glasses were ranged before them.
                  "Sixteen! sixteen is high!—you can't beat that!"
                  "Can't beat it, eh?" and the second of the group, a low browed, carrotty headed
                     chap, rattled the box with much vigor, ere he made the throw.
                  "Two aces and a deuce! ha! ha! you're out, any how, give me the bones!"
                  The third one, who was the last speaker, very demurely picked up the ivory
                     cubes, and placing them in the cup, with a single chuck on the table, he rolled
                     the dice along the mahogany. "Two sixes and a five!—the teapot's mine!"
                  "Foul play, by h—ll!" exclaimed the one who had the "sixteen," and who had
                     hitherto remained silent.
                  "Foul play!—Eh! you son of a drummer's trull! Didn't I see you thumbing that
                     die, the last time you throwed, to make it come up a six?"
                  "You lie!—Jack Carpenter!—you miserable cheat, I'll—"
                  "Dick Watkins, take that!" and the infuriated soldier—who was
                     armed solely with a bayonet—quick as lightning, drew the weapon from its sheath
                     on his left hip, and made a full length thrust at the bosom of his antagonist
                     across the table. It would have been the last of the truckling sergeant, had
                     not Mrs. Gatchell fortunately interposed at the very instant, by jamming a
                     chair against the arm of Carpenter, just as the point of the bayonet reached
                     the shirt-bosom of Watkins, thereby diverting the blow—she at the same time
                     yelling:
                  "Hold! you mad devils! Would you make murder in my house! Look ye, Jack
                     Carpenter!—this is not the first time I've had difficulty with
                     you—clear out to bed!—you'll find hay enough to lie on in the
                     stables—and Sim Westervelt—do you go with him."
                  "I'll see you damned first, Mistress Gatchell!" replied the latter of the two
                     worthies, "I've a rope ready for your neck, old woman, and any
                     time you want it you can be accommodated!"
                  "Spawn of hell!—don't drive me mad! That piece of plate you've
                     been playing for is mine!—not a single article do you take out of
                     this house but your own carrion carcases. Would you scare my granddaughter to
                     death! Go, I say, or—"
                  The old woman opened the stomacher of her rich dress, and the silver mounting
                     of a pistol butt gleamed, as her right hand grasped the weapon.
                  "Hold, Mother!" ejaculated Carpenter, "I know something about your aim, I'll
                     go."
                  "But I'm cussed if I do," said Sim, "till I've had a kiss from these pretty
                     lips!" the villain at the same time seizing Margaret by the waist and lifting
                     her to her feet.
                  With the rage and bound of an infuriated tigress, the grasp of the old hag was
                     instantly upon Westervelt, and, ere his foul lips could approach a contact with
                     the cheek of the fainting girl, the gripe of her long, bony fingers was around
                     his neck, while she drew his ear close to her mouth, and hissed, rather than
                     spoke:
                  "Ye abomination of a tory hound!—yer life ain't worth the greasin' of a camp
                        wagon!—Susan's in the kitchen!"
                  The last piece of intelligence seemed to fall on the half drunken traitor with
                     stunning effect, and, entirely nerveless, he suffered Mother Gatchell to drag
                     him to the top of the staircase, down which she unceremoniously tumbled him
                     neck and heels.
                  "Jack Carpenter," said the harridan, as she returned to the parlor—"you've
                     over-stayed your leave, now some two hours, and you'll take a turn in the
                     Provost to-morrow—I wouldn't wonder if you ketched a floggin', and sarved ye
                     right!—but jest you go and help Sim into the stables. May be he's hurt some—and
                     I'll try and get you excused. Yes you may take that bottle—there's a lantern on
                     the back porch, been burning since daylight—down. No tricks now, or sky-larkin'
                     with the town girls, but go to sleep like honest fellows, and take care
                        of the light!"
                  Carpenter took the half filled bottle, blundered down the broad back stairs,
                     where he picked up Sim Westervelt, somewhat bruised, but very willing to take a
                     hay shake-down for the night, and seizing the lantern, the twain staggered
                     across a small garden to a low wooden building, used as a stable—the door of
                     which readily opened, the latch string hanging outside—when, shutting
                     themselves in, after barricading the door, they ascended to the loft, and,
                     after a long pull at the bottle, the lantern was set down near the ladder, and
                     tumbling upon the fragrant hay, fresh from the upper part of the Bowery, the
                     two scamps were soon fast asleep and snoring.
                  In two hours thereafter, New York city was in a blaze!
                  
                     The fire originated from that very stable!!
                  
                  Mother Gatchell had followed Carpenter until she saw him and his companion well
                     out into the duskiness of the garden, and, on returning to the parlor, she
                     found Watkins supporting Margaret, who was just recovering from her partial
                     swoon. Mistaking his intent, she was at his side instantly, and clutching his
                     shoulder, sent him spinning across the room, while she seated her granddaughter
                     in a chair.
                  "Hands off! ye ruffian! It's you and the likes of you as ruined the only girl I
                     had, and now ye would be practising your cussed arts on her
                     child!"
                  "Her child! whose child?" said Watkins, evidently not
                     comprehending the drift of the old woman's speech.
                  Mother Gatchell found she had gone too far—further than she intended—but, with
                     the quick and desperate resolve which ever marked her character, she suddenly
                     stooped over the silent and wondering maiden, and, lifting her chair and all,
                     by main strength, she carried her into an adjoining apartment, when, summoning
                     one of the black domestics, and giving directions that the shrinking creature
                     should be undressed and put to bed, she came back to the parlor, and placing
                     two chairs opposite and close to each other, in one of which she seated
                     herself—
                  "Come here, Richard Watkins," said she—"or as I may call you in this place—for
                     we have now no fear of interruption—Richard James Stirling—sit down in that
                     chair!"
                  Watkins obeyed mechanically.
                  "Dick I know you, and you know me, but you don't know
                     me all!"—and the beldame drew from her bosom a pistol, which she
                     cocked and laid upon her knee, the muzzle pointing towards the Sergeant, while,
                     with the forefinger of her right hand upon the trigger, she laid the skinny
                     digits of her left upon the lacings of Watkins coat.
                  "Don't get nervous, Richard James," said the old woman with strange
                     calmness—"but now, look me in the eye, and answer me a question or
                        two—truly—truly, you villain!—or your life ain't worth the
                     snuff of a penny-dip! Where is my daughter Peggy?—where is
                     Margaret Mortimor? Don't turn and twist, you scoundrel—answer me at once,
                     or—"
                  Watkins—for so we must still call him—saw the fingers of Mother Gatchell
                     gradually tightening upon the pistol, until her red knuckles assumed the
                     whiteness of the bone itself, 
                        and and
                        and
                      although no coward, he fairly trembled before the determined woman.
                     Once the thought entered his mind to grapple with the amazon, and disarm her,
                     and his eye instinctively dropped to the weapon she was holding.
                  Mrs. Gatchell detected the sinister motive, and, pressing him backward with the
                     hand upon his breast, while she drew the pistol nearer her own person, she
                     approached her wrinkled face to his and almost yelled:
                  "If you do!—if you stir!—if you raise a finger!—I'll
                     shoot you like a mangy hound! Richard Watkins Stirling! answer my question.
                     Where's Margaret?"
                  "Don't be so violent—Mother Gatchell—Mrs. Mortimer!" ejaculated the cornered
                     scoundrel.
                  "I'm not to blame so much as you think!"
                  "Do you know where Peggy is?"
                  "She was in the rebel camp, but I hear she has escaped. No!—just
                     put up that pistol. I'll not answer you a word if you don't—and then I'll tell
                     you all I know."
                  "Watkins! she's has been living with you as a wife? Eh! I heard so—"
                  "Yes, Mother!—and what harm is there in that?"
                  "I'll tell you. You have made her an adulteress! You need not
                     start, Mister Stirling, but I tell you, that Margaret is as truly'
                     and religiously married to Reginald Adair, as ever wife was to a husband! That
                     young girl—my granddaughter—whom you saw here just now, is the offspring of
                     legal wedded love! Adair does not believe it, Peggy does not know it, but
                        you do! You always knew that the clergyman who performed the
                     service was regularly commissioned, but, with the cunning and address of a
                     fiend—of a fiend! Stirling—you led my poor daughter to think that
                     the marriage was all a sham! Adair, the mean, miserable hound, intended it
                     should be so—but I fixed it to outwit him, and I did, partially. Richard James
                     Stirling! because Peggy preferred Major Adair to you, this trouble
                     has come upon me! You stole her from the house of her husband,
                     even when the throes of maternity were upon her, you made her
                     base, vile, contemptible—the strumpet and the jeer of the camp! She has been
                     Mrs. Watkins, Peggy Mortimer, or Margaret Adair, according as the times served.
                     Yes, I know all, you scoundrel! You need not get so fidgetty! When
                     Lieutenant Mortimer was with Wolf, before Quebec, I was a decent woman, with as
                     fine a family growing up around me as any mother could boast! What am I
                        now, Stirling? Two of my sons, Josh and Jotham, are rotting,
                     unburied. Jake has turned traitor to his king and country, and Margaret—my own
                     Peggy, is only a camp trull—worse, if possible, than her mother! Watkins, you
                     have not done all this!—you need not speak!—if you move your lips, I'll shoot!
                     But you ruined Peggy! Major Adair thought he had done it, but I was behind it
                     all—I've got the minister's certificate and the names of the witnesses—and when
                     you enticed her from his roof, you took from his arms a real
                     wife!"
                  Watkins was not astonished, but he was paralized! The tale related by Mother
                     Gatchell, alias Mrs. Mortimer, he knew to be too true! The affair had happened
                     long years ago, when—stung to the quick, by the slight of Margaret Mortimer, a
                     magnificent girl, but a heartless coquette, whom Major Adair, then only a
                     Lieutenant attached to a regiment on duty at Ticonderoga, had, as he supposed,
                     entrapped by a sham marriage—he—Stirling—took advantage of the apparent ruse,
                     and just before her confinement induced the young wife to elope, by
                     representing that she was nothing but the mistress of the gay young Englishman.
                     Adair had tired of her some months previously, and, himself believing the
                     marriage to be but a simulation, he was no wise sorry to find Margaret taken
                     off his hands so easily. She, putting confidence in the representations of
                     Stirling, and considering herself lost past redemption, had followed the
                     fortunes of the scheming soldier, who, re-enlisting under the name of Richard
                     Watkins, had, after serving several years in India, returned entirely
                     forgotten, bringing Margaret with him. He had been a college chum with Adair at Eton, but the effect of an
                     eastern sun so completely altered his features that the Major never recognized
                     him, and, having long since disposed of his commission, his name as "Stirling,"
                     had ceased to be mentioned entirely in the army list. He possessed a fair
                     property in his own right, holding, through a left handed claim, a lien upon
                     the revenues of the crown itself!
                  "Now, Dick Watkins!—I'll ask you once again—where's Peggy?" and the beldame,
                     clutching his coat collar, drew the Sergeant's features close to her own.
                  "Wait a moment!" imploringly parleyed Watkins. "Who is that girl you've just
                     taken out of the room?"
                  "Richard James! it's her daughter! Margaret Adair! When she was
                     born, you—yes, you—gave an Indian a guinea to brain
                     the baby, but—more humane than yourself, you shaking villain—the redskin
                     paddled down Lake George with the child, until he reached our camp.
                        I knew what you were about, but I could not reach you, or you
                     never would have had so many years of sin to answer for! The child was nearly
                     starved and lifeless, but I cared for it. In this very house has she been
                     brought up, and her name of Margaret Adair is in the baptismal records of
                     Trinity Church! Now, where's my daughter?"
                  There was the quick rustle of a female dress, and a tall form flitted across
                     the room, falling almost prone between Watkins and Mother Gatchell.
                  "Mother! here she is! Oh! God—forgive!—forgive!"
                  Watkins and the old woman both sprang forward to raise the prostrate female,
                     when a dark puff of blinding smoke came driving in at the open window, and the
                     next instant, a broad red glare, bursting from the stable in the rear, flashed
                     through the apartment.
                  "Fire! fire!" sang out a passing soldier.
                  "Fiah! Missus! fiah!" exclaimed Chloe, one of the black helps, running into the
                     room, in great fright. "De hoss stable be all in a blaze! Oh! gor-a-mity—Lord
                     help de chick-ons!" and thus commenced the great conflagration which so soon
                     laid the larger portion of New York city in ashes.
                  Mother Gatchell, or—as she was first designated in this narrative—Mrs.
                     Grimstone, was, originally, a decent woman, of much personal beauty, and the
                     wife of an officer, named Mortimer, who, wounded at the siege of Louisburg,
                     finally wasted down on a half pay allowance, until after several years
                     struggle, he departed this life, leaving her a widow with three sons and a
                     daughter. She was fairly educated, but the associations of later years, and
                     various disappointments connected with her subsequent marriages, had given her
                     habits and character of rather a desperate nature, and, although it may appear
                     singular and unnatural, yet, after the seeming seduction of her daughter,
                     Margaret, by Major Adair, she appeared only intent on the training of her sons
                     to lives of crime and violence. The breaking out of the Revolution, found Mrs.
                     Gatchell—Gatchell was the name of her last husband—he got his death wound in a
                     conflict with some marines attached to the revenue service, while conducting a
                     smuggling operation at Elizabethtown Point—at the hut where Ki first came
                     across her, in the interior of the "Jarsies." She had, or fancied she had, some
                     old scores to settle with various leading Whigs in the interior of New Jersey,
                     and, very naturally—when driven from her transient home, in that State—took
                     sides with the royal forces. Disappointments and hardships had soured her,
                     entirely, and the natural vindictiveness and violence of her temper was now
                     likely to have full swing.
                  While an inmate of the "Rattlesnake's den," on the slope of the Pallisades, she
                     had gathered around her a set of desperate characters, whose only bond of union
                     was the incentive of universal plunder, both of Whigs and Tories, and who, when
                     routed from their stronghold by Burnham, took refuge among the hills of
                     Westchester, where they became a terror to the entire neighborhood.
                  Jake, her only remaining son, had mysteriously disappeared, just after the
                     dispersion of the gang from the Jersey side, and Mrs. Gatchell, after the city
                     was occupied by the royal troops, managed to pass the American lines, and took
                     up her quarters in the Morris mansion, in Queen street, where she knew her
                     grandchild might be found. The owner and most of the family had left the city
                     on the approach of Howe's army, Richard Morris only remaining behind a few days
                     to arrange some small matters, when he was stopped, as before related, and
                     forced to return.
                  Young Morris had, somehow, become acquainted with Margaret Adair's true
                     history, and growing up together, as it were, they had become deeply and firmly
                     attached to each other. When ordered back by General Leslie, he very naturally
                     returned to the home of his childhood, when, finding Mrs. Gatchell in full
                     possession, as housekeeper for a number of British officers, he, with
                     Margaret's assistance, concealed himself in a deserted vault, where, at
                     intervals, his meals were furnished him by the single-hearted and devoted
                     girl.
                  Through a chink in his narrow hiding place, he witnessed the outburst of the
                     flames from the stable, and could distinctly hear the roar and crackle, as the
                     fire, in its progress—communicating to the dwelling—was consuming the house of
                     his fathers.
                  It was an unpleasant position for the young physician, and he scarcely knew
                     which way to turn. Serving in the hospitals of the English army he would not
                     think of, and to escape this dilemma he had secreted himself until an
                     opportunity should offer for his escape from the island. The noise and shouts,
                     outside, soon became nearly deafening, and the hot air of the fire began to
                     penetrate the place of his concealment! To add to his embarrassment, he
                     suddenly recollected that Margaret had the key of the vault, and as a puff of
                     vapor more pungent and suffocating than the rest came whirling into the narrow
                     apartment, the thought came upon him, with almost crushing power, that, in the
                     hurry and confusion of the occasion, the girl might be hurried away, to some
                     distant point, so as to render der it impossible for her to effect his release,
                     and, with a feeling of partial desperation, he applied his mouth to one of the
                     apertures, and gave a prolonged and shrill—
                  "Hilloa!"
                  He had no relish for being roasted alive in that hole, and felt, very
                     naturally, that administering to the necessities of wounded Hessians or king's
                     troops would not be quite so disagreeable as a lingering death by the slow
                     process of smoking and blistering, which fate, he felt, would be his own
                     surely, unless an immediate escape from the place could be effected.
                  The paternal mansion was, by this time, in flames, above and beneath, and he
                     knew that a fearful destruction of property was progressing, but the mere waste
                     of pounds and shillings, by the conflagration, was, however, little thought
                     of—his own existence was perilled, and a second "Hilloa!"—stronger and sharper
                     than the first—rang out, sounding clear and distinct on the night air even
                     above the thundering turmoil of the fire!
                  A number of minutes of torturing suspense elapsed, but there was no response to
                     his call, the atmosphere within becoming each moment more choking and difficult
                     of respiration, and, as a last resort, he flung himself prone upon the stone
                     floor, with his face to the pavement, the rarified vapors filling the entire
                     upper part of the room, while the air below was, comparatively, less stifling.
                     He had been but a short time in this situation, when he heard the key hastily
                     turned in the lock, and, springing to his feet, was just in season to catch
                     Margaret in his arms, as the brave girl staggered into the vault, nearly
                     suffocated!
                  "Fly! Richard—fly! The garden gate is open, and you can get down to the docks,
                     unnoticed!" was the only words she was capable of uttering. Her form was
                     enveloped in a large piece of carpeting, hastily torn from the hall floor, and
                     she had passed through the reeking, seething mass of flame, nearly
                     unscathed.
                  "Not without you, dearest Margaret!" he instantly ejaculated, and, seizing the
                     swooning maiden in his arms, he made a rush for the only means of escape,
                     through the rear portal. The pathway lay close by the burning stable, but
                     crouching low, in order to avoid the masses of fire which were pouring from
                     each window, he had nearly reached the postern, when, with a dizzy, blinding
                     crash, a portion of one of the side walls tumbled outward, and Morris suddenly
                     found himself enveloped in the debris of the burning pile, and covered with
                     scorching cinders and hot ashes! The roof had fallen, carrying with it a part
                     of the lower structure, and the sudden catastrophe rendered the situation of
                     the young American and his helpless burden fearfully appalling! Completely
                     blinded, and with his hair and clothes on fire, he sank, for a moment, entirely
                     exhausted, but the next instant a strong hand had griped him by the collar, and
                     a rude, rough voice hoarsely shouted—
                  "Hold her fast, and you are both saved!"
                  It seemed but a second ere Morris found himself in the middle of a narrow lane,
                     which skirted the rear of the mansion, with the face of a dark-browed,
                     hard-featured man close to his own, as if endeavoring to establish his
                     identity.
                  "Oh! it's you, Dick Morris!" the stranger finally exclaimed. "But who's this
                     lump of humanity? A woman, eh?" and the fellow commenced stripping the carpet
                     covering from the form of the insensible maiden. A single glance at her
                     features created a total change in his manner, for, catching her up, with a
                     cry, half of joy, half of anguish, and with the hurried words, "Follow me,
                     Morris!—quick!" he strode with hasty steps down towards the water-side, where,
                     placing the young creature in a boat, moored under the shadow of a wooden pier,
                     he commenced laving her temples with the briny element, which he scooped up
                     with his hands over the low gunwale.
                  "Margaret! Margaret!—speak to me! It is your uncle, Jacob! Say! don't you know
                     me?"
                  As the man said this, Margaret slowly opened her eyes, and, in two or three
                     minutes, was sufficiently recovered from her swoon to sit up, supported by her
                     mysterious deliverer, whom the reader will, probably, by this time, recognise
                     as the missing Jake Gatchell.
                  Morris had followed with difficulty, smarting with pain, and nearly bewildered.
                     He reached the boat just as Margaret began to show signs of returning
                     consciousness, and heard her reply to Jake's earnest inquiry:
                  "Where's your grandmother?"
                  "Grandmother?—oh, yes,—Grandmother Gatchell! I don't know, uncle! Just after
                     you left the kitchen, the fire broke out—Grandmother thought I was abed, but,
                     after Sim Westervelt and that Jack Carpenter went to the stable, poor Susan
                     came up to my room, and asked me where Sim was. I told her, and she went out.
                     Have you seen her?"
                  "No; but there are three bodies in the stable, and one of them is a woman. I
                     seed 'em almost as soon as the fire broke out of the door, lying in a heap, in
                     one corner. They was dead, I guess, for they didn't stir, and the place was
                     torching like an oven! I got down on my hands and knees, and looked under the
                     blaze, like! But where's mother? Where's your grandmother? She ain't burnt,
                     too!"
                  "Oh, no! That man—that Sergeant Watkins and she were packing up some silver in
                     the parlor—there was another woman in the room crying when I looked in. Then I
                     heard the street door open, and Watkins went into the hall—then there were loud
                     words and pistol shots—and—and—I thought of Richard, and went to let him out.
                     I—I—don't remember much more, but oh! it is awful!"
                  And the poor girl covered her face with her hands, as if she wished to shut out
                     recollection of the terrible scene!
                  "Pistol shots, eh! You heard pistol shots? Cuss that Watkins! There's foul play
                     somewhere! Here, Morris, I can trust you! Take care of Margaret until I come
                     back, but, for your lives, don't quit the boat! The tide will turn in half an
                     hour, and then she'll swing right under the wharf. Nobody will find you
                     here!"
                  And Jake Gatchell leaped from the frail craft up, on the capsill, and instantly
                        plunged into the smoke and glare
                     which pervaded the whole neighborhood.
                  Morris sat down on a thwart, and pressing Margaret to his bosom, awaited, in
                     silence, the issue of events. He had known that Jake had been prowling about
                     the house, for some months, but he was not aware that Margaret had recognized
                     him as her mother's brother. He was weak from the effect of his recent exposure
                     and exertions—his blistered face and hands felt exceedingly uncomfortable, and,
                     after assuring himself that his companion was unharmed, he sank into a moody,
                     half-dreamy, reverie, as he watched, in silence the progress of the fire.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXVII.
                  The moment Chloe burst into the parlor, where Mother Gatchell and Watkins were
                     supporting the unfortunate Peggy Mortimer, alias Margaret Adair, the old woman
                     saw, at a single glance, that the stable was gone past redemption, and that the
                     dwelling itself was in imminent peril. In an emergency like the present, she
                     never took the trouble to reason, but the innate selfishness of her nature ever
                     seemed to flash out, on the instant, and, rudely shoving her penitent daughter
                     into a chair, she commenced a hasty selection of the choicest valuables,
                     stowing a large quantity of the family plate in a table-cloth, the four corners
                     of which she securely tied.
                  "Josh and Jotham!—my poor boys!—if you were only here now, what a precious lot
                     of rebel stuff might be saved!" she half soliloquised, as piece after piece of
                     antique and quaintly-chased silver went into the receptacle.
                  "Watkins, you scamp! what are you fingering the lock of that secretary for?
                     Here, help me with this bundle! Jake's mule is only a block or two off! I've
                     tracked the fellow, and, if he has turned traitor, he'll help his old mother
                     this time! Peg, you lazy trollop, get up!—take these spoons in your apron! We
                     must be across to Long Island, and well out towards Carpenter's, in less than
                     two hours. There's a boat will carry us all, except the mule, just down back
                     here!" and the hag worked with exceeding industry, as she followed out her
                     pilfering propensity.
                  "But Carpenter and Sim are both in the stable, mother!" ejaculated Stirling,
                     suddenly recollecting the sleeping-place of his two companions. "They'll be
                     burnt alive, to a dead certainty!"
                  "Let 'em roast!—let 'em roast! Hell's their portion in another world, and they
                     may as well get a small smell before they leave!" and the she fiend—all her
                     supreme malignity returning with the prospect of extensive plunder—chuckled
                     horridly over the villainous joke!
                  Just as she spoke, a broad volume of flame, driven by the rising wind, belched
                     forth crackling and roaring from the stable door, and, ere it was noticed, a
                     wisp of straw in a blaze was wafted in at a window! The curtains caught
                     instantly, and, in less time than it takes to record the fact, the parlor
                     itself was on fire in several places.
                  "Here, Watkins, make haste and shoulder this load!—tramp quick, you rascal, or
                     you know what will come!" and Mother Gatchell's right hand instinctively
                     slipped into the bosom of her dress.
                  "Peggy!—stir yourself or we'll all get roasted!—pass on down Queen street to
                     the next corner, and then we can easily reach the water!—Hell! Where's my
                     granddaughter, Margaret? Here, Watkins, stop! The girl's up stairs asleep!—you
                     brutal devil!—I say, stop!"
                  But the Sergeant had already reached the hall, staggering under the weight of
                     plate contained in the table cloth!
                  "Damnation! don't you hear?" yelled the infuriated woman. "Take
                        that, then!"
                  And quick as thought, she snatched a pistol from beneath her dress, levelled
                     it, and fired!
                  The ball took effect in the unwieldy bundle on Watkins' shoulder, who turned,
                     at the instant, his countenance distorted with long suppressed malice and rage,
                     at the cowardly attempt upon his life.
                  "Ah! ha!" said he, "that's a game two can play. Hag of hell!—Dick Watkins' aim
                     is yet a good one!" and, taking a single step forward, to make sure of his
                     object amid the whirling smoke which now filled the parlor, there was another
                     flash and report, and Mother Gatchell fell, writhing in her death agony.
                  "Imp of Satan!—ah—h—h!" the desperate woman screamed, at the height of her
                     voice—"You've killed me!—Peggy, come here!—quick!" and Mrs. Gatchell raised
                     herself upon her left elbow, while, with the right hand, she strove,
                     spasmodically, to make a compression over the region of her heart. "Take it
                     out—Peggy!—the—pistol!—shoot him!—oh, God! Ah!—kill the hound!—avenge your
                     mother! You are Adair's wife! Watkins lied!—shoot! Damn him!—blow his cussed—"
                     Mother Gatchell sank back upon the floor, gasping for breath, while a froth,
                     brightly streaked with blood, came gurgling from her open mouth!
                  It was but a moment's task for Peggy Mortimer, or rather, Margaret Adair, to
                     tear the weapon from the bloody breast of her mother, although, in doing so,
                     her own hands became deeply dyed in the life current of her parent, the red
                     gore bubbling out with each labored respiration! A single bound to the door of
                     the apartment revealed the form of Watkins, just retreating through the street
                     door. She never loved him, although she had passed as his wife, and, maddened
                     by his dastardly act, in thus shooting down her mother, with scarcely a thought
                     for the consequences, she hastily fired in the direction of the open
                     doorway!
                  Watkins stumbled down the steps just as she pulled the trigger, but, at the
                     same instant, an officer, in the rich uniform of his majesty's forces, reeled
                     dizzily into the hall, and, with a heavy groan, rolled upon the floor, a
                     corpse!
                  
                     It was Major Adair!
                  
                  The bullet intended for Watkins had entered his brain, and he fell by the hands
                     of his own mis-used wife! He was just entering the door as Watkins passed out,
                     and the unsteady aim of the wretched female was the cause of his violent
                     death!
                  Three days thereafter, when the ruins had become partially cooled, his charred
                     remains were found in the cellar, beneath the spot where he had fallen, the
                     entire floors having been burned through, while a shrunken, blackened mass,
                     nearer the interior of the building, was all the fire had left of the notorious
                     Mother Gatchell!
                  As Peggy passed him, when the increasing intensity of the flames drove her from
                     the building, she caught a single glance of his features, and, with one
                     involuntary spring, and a shriek of such piercing shrillness as would almost
                     raise the dead, she leapt entirely over his body into the mid-street, falling
                     upon the stones, a mute and hopeless maniac! She never spoke afterwards, but
                     died in about a year, at the age of thirty-four, the wreck of one of the most
                     beautiful women of her day.
                  The smoking relics of the stable were also examined, for victims, some days
                     subsequent, but only two bodies were discovered. One of the trio
                     seen there by Jake Gatchell had escaped, and, as Sim Westervelt turned up, in
                     the course of the night, he was, beyond doubt, the lucky individual. Sim was
                     taken near the docks, with the identical package of silver ware in his
                     possession with which Watkins attempted to escape. He was lugged to the Provost
                     forthwith, the patrol, at the same time, escorting the granddaughter,
                     Margaret—who had craved protection of them—to the same lock up. It was a season
                     of much consternation and peril, and the usual and more comfortable places of
                     detention were full. Westervelt, however, managed to elude the vigilance of the
                     guards, and got away clear, before morning. What became of him, it is not our
                     present purpose to disclose. He never again appeared, however, during the
                     revolutionary struggle, under the name of Sim Westervelt. During the imperfect
                     investigation which took place after the fire, there was some testimony which
                     went to show that he designedly fired the stable, more for the purpose of
                     concealing the double murder of the poor half-witted girl, Susan, and Jack
                     Carpenter, with whom he quarrelled, than with the intent of creating such wide
                     spread destruction, but nothing definite was ever elucidated.
                  When Watkins tumbled into Queen street, after his hasty departure from the
                     Morris mansion, he was not aware that the ball intended for him had sped so
                     fatally on its errand in another direction. He met Major Adair full in the
                     face, as the latter opened the door for the suppression of the fire; Watkins
                     knew him, but the Major did not recognize the Sergeant, and, although the
                     scoundrel heard the groan of his officer, he was yet more intent on securing
                     the rich booty he was laden with, than returning to the house to see who was
                     hurt. He saw Mother Gatchell fall, but still he was fearful that the old woman
                     was merely attempting a ruse to get him within shot of another pistol, and, as
                     he did not witness the act of his occasional wife, but only heard the report of
                     the weapon, he felt pretty confident that he was indebted to Mrs Gatchell
                     herself for both the bullets aimed at his precious person. He was just in the
                     act of diving down an obscure cross street, where the smoke would not prove
                     quite so suffocating, when he felt a hand laid upon his shoulder from behind,
                     at the same time a rough whisper came into his ear.
                  "Halves, old fellow!—cut it fair now, Sergeant!"—and turning his head, his eye
                     detected the ugly face of Sim Westervelt.
                  "Oh, its you, Westervelt, is it? Well, look here! this load is most cursed
                     heavy, and if you wish to share, you must help carry it!"
                  Sim took the bundle and travelled on, while Watkins lingered behind, not only
                     to keep out of harm's way, but also to keep watch, lest there should be other
                     and more legitimate claimants for the plunder.
                  As Sim Westervelt, at a turn of the narrow street, came out from the shadow of
                     a tall building, which had not yet caught, into the full glare of the
                     conflagration, he was met by a party of soldiers, who, under a subaltern, were
                     hastening to the scene of devastation, and, after a brief struggle, in which he
                     received a rather severe sabre cut across the cheek, he was secured, bound, and
                     marched off to the lock-up—the silver, meanwhile, being taken to a place of
                     safety. It was, after the war, restored to the original owners, but one of the
                     goblets was rendered useless on account of a ball hole through the side, near
                     the bottom, the bullet having made a deep indentation opposite, and then fallen
                     into the body of the vessel. Both the goblet and the leaden missile were
                     preserved for many years in the Morris family, and the story connected with the
                     singular perforation has been often related in the hearing of people now
                     living. Possibly the drinking-cup is still in existence, and the historical
                     truthfulness of the legend may be readily established, as the effect of Mother
                     Gatchell's last shot at Sergeant Watkins!
                  At the time of Westervelt's arrest, Watkins was not so far distant that he did
                     not distinctly witness the whole transaction, and, although keenly
                     disappointed, he soon found that interference on his part would only plunge him
                     deeper in difficulty, since Sim, as soon as he saw that further resistance was
                     vain, with all the effrontery of a thorough scoundrel, disclosed the entire
                     transaction, in regard to how he became possessed of the bundle, and the
                     villainous Sergeant ground his teeth in impotent rage, as he heard his brother
                     rascal mention the name of "Watkins" as the original thief.
                  "Rot the cur!—I'll be even with him for this! But I must get out of the way
                     now, or, Richard Watkins, your chances are rather slim!"—and the scoundrel,
                     turning on his heel, made hasty strides towards Broadway. He had not progressed
                     a block, however, ere he detected the stealthy tread of some one, apparently,
                     dogging his footsteps. The wind, from the East River, was whirling along
                     immense volumes of smoke, which, eddying over the eaves and high gables, filled
                     the street with a blinding,
                     suffocating vapor, rendering the eyesight of little value. Large sparks and
                     bits of burning shingles were raining down continually, and, as roof after roof
                     caught from these flying brands, the aspect began to be one of much
                     seriousness! Bells were ringing in all directions—the drums of the different
                     regiments were beating a general alarm—officers and soldiers were seen,
                     continually hurrying to and fro, giving and executing orders, as the peril to
                     the city became, each minute, more imminent, yet, as the Sergeant glided
                     cautiously along towards his quarters, carefully avoiding the more travelled
                     thoroughfares, he could, at intervals, distinctly hear, above all the din and
                     confusion, the pat! pat! of a man's feet in close proximity behind, although,
                     in the uncertain and smoky gloom, be could get no glimpse of the individual so
                     pertinaciously keeping pace with his own footsteps! Once, indeed, as he turned
                     a corner, he caught the glare of two cat-like eyes, apparently no higher from
                     the ground than his middle, but the strange vision suddenly seemed to sink into
                     the earth, and the fellow absolutely found means to quiet an incipient
                     nervousness—which, in spite of himself, made his breath come quicker—by the
                     idea that his strange follower might be some stray dog belonging to one of the
                     officers.
                  The regiment, to which he belonged, was quartered, temporarily, in the old
                     Dutch Church, now used as a Post office. Watkins had arrived almost in sight of
                     the building, when, are he had time to turn or make the least preparation for
                     the attack, he suddenly felt himself seized around the neck, by the arm of a
                     muscular man, whose gripe instantly tightened until it felt like an iron
                     band—at the same moment, his assailant, lugging him towards the ground, and,
                     swinging partially under the bent form of the half-choked Sergeant, quick as
                     lightning, gave him a "cross-buttock," both parties turning a sort of rude
                     somerset; and pitching, head and heels, down an open hatchway, into the cellar
                     of a deserted building.
                  "Villain, I have you now!" exclaimed the stranger, hissing the words out
                     between his closed teeth. "If you breathe-loud or lift a finger, I'll blow your
                     scoundrelly head from your shoulders!" and Watkins felt the cold muzzle of a
                     pistol pressed hard against one of his temples. "Dick Watkins, I'm Jake
                     Gatchell! Spawn of Cain, you've murdered my mother, and left her to roast in
                     the very house you or some of your infernal horde have just fired. Shooting is
                     too good for you. I'll fix you better, you fiend of the pit!"
                  Jake's plan was to gag Watkins, and, after pinioning his arms, to leave the
                     scamp to the mercy of the flames—after setting fire to the building
                     himself—which deed he imagined he could perform, in the confusion, with
                     impunity! but, in order to apply the wooden billet between the jaws of the
                     Sergeant, it became necessary to relax the hold he still had around his neck,
                     and, unluckily, while in the act of inserting the gag, he, somehow, got his
                     thumb between the teeth of his prospective victim, who instantly closed them on
                     the inquisitive member with all the desperation of despair, the bone itself
                     crushing beneath the vice like grip! Gatchell grunted audibly, and, dropping
                     his pistol, which was lost in the darkness, he throttled his antagonist with
                     his free hand, and then commenced a most unearthly struggle for the mastery,
                     the combatants rolling over and over each other, like two mad panthers, Jake
                     choking with all his might, and endeavoring to draw Watkins' face to his own,
                     so as to pay him back in kind on his nasal organ, and the sergeant clutching at
                     the garote-like pressure on his windpipe with both hands, while he chewed away
                     on Gatchell's unsavory thumb with frightful pertinacity!
                  The strife was a tremendous one, and how long it might have lasted, or which
                     would have been the victor, no one now could tell. Watkins was growing weak for
                     lack of breathing, and Jake's fifth finger was in a most 
                        excrutiating
                        excruciating
                      fix, when a party of soldiers, passing in charge of a
                     Lieutenant—hearing the suppressed growling of Gatchell, as his long fingers
                     were tearing at the weasand of the Sergeant, in the endeavor to choke him off
                     from the cruel set of his teeth—plunged into the cellar hole, bayonet in hand,
                     and began to strike about in all directions.
                  "It must be sum ov the 'Liberty Byes,' I'm thinkin'," ejaculated an Orderly, as
                     he tumbled over the two prostrate gladiators. "Surrinder, ye wagabones. Men,
                     seize 'em—'ere they is."
                  As by common consent, both Jake and Watkins let go at the same
                     instant,—Gatchell slipping up a rude ladder which led to the upper rooms, while
                     the Sergeant, who was nearly throttled, suffered himself to be lifted—out of
                     the same aperture through which he so suddenly entered—into the street. By the
                     glare of the fire, which was now rapidly progressing, it was seen that his face
                     was nearly black from the effect of the compression on his throat, and his eyes
                     protruded from his head, with never a wink about them.
                  "Hold, men; let me look," said the Lieutenant, bending over the prostrate
                     villain. "He wears the king's button!"
                  "Water—water!" faintly ejaculated the rescued soldier, "ug!—ugh!—catch
                     that—Christ!—this—this has been a tough one!" and raising himself to a sitting
                     posture, he inspired and respired heavily for a minute, the big drops of beaded
                     sweat chasing each other rapidly down his features, which were now assuming a
                     hue of ghastly paleness, with the exception of the large blue veins on his
                     forehead, extended almost to bursting!
                  "Grab that scoundrel, will ye, yer lazy loons! It's Jake Gatchell, the worst
                     rebel spy in the city!" he said, at length, with much energy.
                  "Who says spy? Where is he? Oh, it's you, Watkins—what's the
                     matter, Sergeant!" exclaimed the brute, Cunningham, as he rolled along through
                     the crowd. "Who says spy?"
                  "Mr. Provost Marshall, go right back to your post! You've got a mate to Hale
                     inside your quarters now!" rejoined Watkins, slowly rising to his feet, and
                     placing a hand on each side of his own red neck. "Damnation!—but the fellow
                     choked awfully! Marshall Cunningham ningham, I have certain intelligence from
                     Sim Westervelt, that the ungainly rebel, Ki Lane, a Captain in Washington's
                     Life Guard, is now in your custody! He is a spy, and has come within the lines
                     under an assumed name, as Doctor Ketcham!"
                  This last intelligence was communicated in a whisper to the Provost Marshal,
                     who instantly started back to the prison, a gleam of malignant exultation
                     lighting up his ugly, stolid features, in anticipation of more gallows
                     work.
                  "Come, boys, help me to my quarters in the old sanctuary, yonder," Watkins
                     said, after watching the Provost Marshal out of sight. "My shoulder is hurt
                     some, I guess, by that cursed tumble, and I've been chewing raw hog, may be!"
                     at the same time clearing his mouth of the blood and sand he had taken in
                     during the struggle. "Damn the skunk!—yah-h!—it was a devil of a pinch,
                     anyhow!"—and the Sergeant was led off in the direction indicated He did not
                     care to have Jake Gatchell followed further, since he was fearful that the tale
                     of the latter, in relation to his mother's death, added to Sim Westervelt's
                     account of the robbery, would place his person in an unpleasant predicament,
                     and he might possibly be required to go aloft, Haman fashion!
                  But Richard James Stirling went on his last earthly expedition that very
                     night!
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXVIII.
                  When Jake Gatchell left the boat containing Morris and Margaret, he hastened
                     immediately around into Queen street, arriving just in season to receive almost
                     in his arms, Major Adair's maniac wife—his own sister, the unfortunate Peggy
                     Mortimer. Her eye vacantly fixed on the blazing mansion was the only hint he
                     gathered in relation to the recent double homicide, but leaving his sister in
                     the street, where she passively sat down, he hastily ascended the steps, and
                     rushed in the open door. The first object which met his gaze was the body of
                     Major Adair—yet untouched by the flames—lying in the hall, near the entrance! A
                     blue spot over the right temple, from which a thin stream of blood had
                     trickled, too plainly told the outlaw that a scene of fearful violence had been
                     enacted under that roof, and, speeding on in the direction of the fatal parlor,
                     from the upper portion of the door of which a broad bright sheet of flame was
                     pouring into the passage, he attempted to grope his way amid the stifling smoke
                     into the room itself. A puff of wind from an opposite window, lifted the dark
                     and suffocating canopy which rested down on all objects, and for an instant, he
                     was enabled to catch a glimpse of his mother's form, lying in a pool of blood
                     at some feet distance, but, the next moment a burst of fire more fierce than
                     hitherto, curled over from the ceiling, wrapping the body of his parent in its
                     red embrace, and driving him back, even to the sidewalk.
                  "Murder!—there's been murder most villainous, here!" he hurriedly
                     soliloquised—"and that devil's pup, Watkins, has done it!"
                  "Peggy dear!—Peggy Mortimer!" said he, with wild haste, as he knelt by the side
                     of the crazed woman. "Who was the scoundrel?—was it Watkins?"
                  The unfortunate merely nodded her head, in token of assent, and then pointing
                     towards the portal, raised her clenched hand on a level with her eye, as if
                     pointing a pistol.
                  "Enough!" said Jake Gatchell. "The hound dies this night!"
                  It took but a moment or two for him to place the unresisting woman in a place
                     of transient security, and then, slipping down Queen street, he arrived just in
                     season to put himself on the trail of Sergeant Watkins, whom he followed, with
                     a true bloodhound instinct, until he thought he had reached a locality fitted
                     for his fell purpose.
                  After the termination of the fight in the cellar, Jake ascended to the roof,
                     and, tearing out one of his pockets, he bandaged his wounded thumb as well as
                     he was able. Dropping thence to the ridge of a low shed, he found but little
                     difficulty in gaining an adjoining street, and was soon again by the side of
                     his silent sister, whom he conducted quietly but swiftly to the boat. But the
                     craft was empty!
                  Seating Peggy upon the pier, he immediately commenced a search for Morris and
                     his missing niece. The latter he found, after considerable difficulty, half
                     dead with fright and exposure, ensconsed among some ammunition boxes on the
                     wharf.
                  "Margaret, what are you here for?—I told you to stay in the boat!" was his
                     first salutation, shaking her rudely by the shoulder. "Where's Morris?"
                  "I don't know, Uncle Jake! He went to see if he could find grandmother, and I
                     was so lonesome! It's a terrible night!"
                  "Hush! Margaret—you are a soldier's daughter!—you are a soldier's
                     grand-daughter!—don't scream now, but listen! Mother's dead! Watkins, the
                     cursed villain, shot her. Peggy—your mother is down by the
                     boat—she's the only parent you have now, and she's crazy, I believe! Come,
                     Margaret!"
                  Poor Jake Gatchell! For the first time in his life, he felt the utter
                     loneliness of his situation, for bad as they were, his mother, his brothers and
                     his sister had ever been tied to his better nature by a strong feeling of
                     affection!
                  "I know who my father is, uncle! There's no harm come to him?"
                     said the girl, partly in an exclamatory—partly with an inquisitive
                     intonation.
                  "Your mother has killed Major Adair, and now we are almost alone in the
                     world!"
                  "Killed my father!" shrieked Margaret, springing to her feet, "God of
                     Heaven!—what am I reserved
                        for!—help!—help!—Morris!—Morris!" and she sped up
                     the pier with the swiftness of light, leaving Jake Gatchell alone with his
                     demented sister.
                  In half an hour thereafter, a boat, containing a man and woman, might be seen,
                     slowly and silently rounding the point of the Battery. Gatchell was in the
                     stern, sculling with one hand, and the widowed Peggy Adair seated in the bows
                     The bright glare of the burning city lit up the waters of the bay, but they heeded them not. It was a mournful
                     voyage!
                  Ki had dozed, probably, an hour, in the damp lock-up of the Provost, when he
                     was aroused from an unquiet dream by a hand laid firmly, but not roughly, upon
                     his shoulder, at the same time, a voice whispered in his ear, "Lane! Captain
                     Lane!—get up! The road is clear—you are free once more!"
                  "Who in the devil's name are you?" ejaculated the stalwart Continentaler, the
                     uncertain gloom of the cell not permitting him to distinguish countenances.
                  "Be quiet, Captain, now!—wont ye! I got you into this scrape and I'm bound to
                     see you out of it! Don't you remember the man with the mule, in the Bowerys?
                     Hush!—not a word!—your life and 
                        the the
                        the
                      liberty of these young folks depends on silence and expedition. I've
                     sawed off your leg toggles while you were asleep! The Liberty Boys didn't like
                     to see another hanging scrape! Cunningham, the scoundrel, is well drugged, and
                     one of the guards is with us! Now, through this hole!—never mind the squeeze!"
                     and as the strange individual said this he pointed to an 
                        aparture
                        aperture
                      in the wall, which opened immediately to the free air outside.
                  "I think I'll take that dive!" said Ki, rubbing his eyes and straightening
                     himself, "I don't fancy these quarters much myself!" when, without further
                     question, he slid his long body, feet foremost, through the narrow
                     passage—formed, for the occasion, by the crowbars of half a dozen men, of whom
                     only a glimpse could be caught, as they disappeared in the distance—and, once
                     more found himself breathing the unconfined air of the city, with his feet on
                     the sod of the City Common.
                  Morris and Margaret were already outside, and, with a single glance over his
                     shoulder at the lurid glare of the conflagration, still progressing fearfully
                     down-town, Ki strode on with his three companions, in the direction of
                     Broadway. The space now occupied by the Fifth Ward, in New York, with all its
                     busy interests, was then an almost untenanted waste, occasionally rising into
                     hills, and again sinking in a swampy marsh. A narrow creek, skirted with
                     willows, ran up towards the centre of the island, nearly on the locality of the
                     present Canal street, and towards this point the party hurried. Few words were
                     spoken, and, owing to the great catastrophe then prevailing in the lower wards,
                     no questions were asked by the two or three patrols whom they encountered. Men,
                     women and children were hastening up the island, in the utmost consternation,
                     the impending danger from the fire being heightened by the frenzied rage of the
                     British forces, who, attributing the disaster to rebel emissaries, were
                     committing every species of outrage on the defenceless citizens! It was a
                     fearful night of violence and destruction, where human passion, lawlessly
                     exercised, raged even more fiercely than the flames!
                  The dawn had not yet broke, when a sentinel, on the forecastle of the Asia—a
                     British line-of-battle ship, moored in the Hudson, just out of the range of the
                     guns on Forts Washington and Lee-descried a small boat, close in shore,
                     drifting with the flood, then setting strongly up the river. The moon, in her
                     last quarter, was nearly at meridian, which enabled him to distinguish objects
                     with sufficient distinctness to ascertain that there were five people on board,
                     two of whom appeared to be females. The circumstance would have attracted
                     little attention, were it not for the fact that about half a mile lower down, a
                     six oared barge was discovered, pulling rapidly towards the ship, an
                     occurrence, which, at this early hour, was somewhat unusual. The first boat was
                     out of musket range, and a hail would, therefore, have been useless, so the
                     marine resumed his solitary tramp, forth and back, over the planks. A few
                     minutes, however, sufficed to bring the barge within reach of the sentry's
                     musket, when his challenge went shrill and clear over the still waters.
                  "Boat ahoy!"
                  "Ahoy, the Asia! I want to come alongside, with a communication from Gen.
                     Howe!"
                  "Lay off till the watch is mustered!"
                  The officer of the deck swung himself into the forechains—the marines on duty
                     turned out, and, at a signal, the boat glided under the bows of the man-of-war.
                     A stout, muscular man, in the undress of a Sergeant of the royal army, with his
                     left arm in a sling, stood up in the stern-sheets, and, touching his cap, made
                     the inquiry, in a low tone:
                  "Have you seen a boat, with four or five people aboard, go up the river, within
                     the last hour or so?"
                  "Who are you? Come on deck!"
                  "Hist! No, Lieutenant. Here's General Howe's permit. Look at it!" the
                     individual, at the same time, tossing a packet up the side, which lodged on the
                     chain-plate. A brief glance, by the light of a guard lantern, seemed to satisfy
                     the officer, and, turning to the sentry, he said:
                  "You can answer the question."
                  "Yes, sir—there is a boat with five folks in her just pulled into the shadow of
                     them trees, close in shore, off our larboard quarter. I got sight of them
                     fifteen minutes since coming up with the tide."
                  "All right! The Provost walls have been broken through, and another rascally
                     rebel Captain, who was to have been hung before reveille, has escaped! Good
                     morning, sir. Pull men, with a will!" A boat-hook, planted against the black
                     side of the ship, gave the bows of the barge a sheer shoreward, and, in five
                     minutes thereafter, it had also disappeared in the shade of the woods which at
                     that time overhang the river.
                  It was an exciting chase, but not a long one. The foremost boat contained Ki,
                     Morris, Margaret Adair, her mute and maniac mother, and Jake Gatchell—a rather
                     important cargo.
                  A general explanation had ensued on all sides, since the boat left the little
                     creek at the termination of the Lispenard meadows, and Ki was made fully
                     acquainted with the peculiar mission of Gatchell in the city. The former bandit
                     had become thoroughly disgusted with his infamous profession, and, for months,
                     had been in the receipt of a regular stipend, from Washington's own pocket, as
                     a trusty spy in the British camp. Through his niece, Margaret, and other
                     sources, he was continually apprised of all the prospective movements of both
                     the Howes, and as his secret dispatches were ever found reliable, he had the
                     full confidence of the Commander-in-Chief.
                  "That was rather a hard time, Captin, that you had down in the Jarseys," said
                     Jake, as he was quietly sculling the boat with one hand, the other being thrust
                     deep in the waistband of his stained and shrunken buckskin breeches. "Cuss that
                     Watkins—he's chawed my thumb rayther mean, I'm thinkin'. You see, the old
                     woman—mother—was sorter desperate like, and Josh and Jotham never keered for
                     life, anyhow—but I couldn't go the thing, Captin! Oh, well, I'm almost alone
                     now! Margaret there, never knew me much, and Peggy's got the sulks, somehow.
                     'Taint no use in cryin' over spilt milk, but I jest want to get a sight of that
                     Watkins!"
                  "Look astern, Morris!" said Ki—"seems to me there's a boat just shoving off
                     from the side of that big ugly tub, yonder! By Heavens, Jake! they're after
                     us!"
                  As Ki said this he stood up in the boat to get a better view, and, in the clear
                     moonlight he could plainly perceive the movements of the pursuing barge.
                  "Hand me those oars," he hurriedly whispered, after a long and scrutinizing
                     look. "The rascals don't catch us so easy!"
                  The boat was only fitted for a single oarsman, but Ki's brawny arms told on the
                     waters—which went whirling away with each stroke—with tremendous power, and the
                     little craft seemed to fairly jump from the surface with each impulse.
                  The barge, however, was fast overhauling them, and had commenced a fire from a
                     half-a-dozen muskets, the shots frequently dropping alongside, when Jake
                     Gatchell, who was steering, suddenly let go his paddle, and, making a
                     convulsive spring forward, fell at full length across the thwart upon which
                     Kisat.
                  "Christ! they've done me!" he almost shrieked, but added immediately, in a tone
                     of strange calmness: "Morris, take that oar, and let her run in! We're safe
                     here! Captain Lane, I've got one barker left!—take it! It's Jake Gatchell's
                     last—last! Oh! God!—tell the General—tell
                     Washington!—tell-Margaret!—Peggy!—mother!"—and the head of the wounded man fell
                     heavily on the arm of Ki—there was a slight gurgle in his throat, a
                     straightening quiver ran through the whole body, and the Jersey outlaw, the
                     rebel spy, had passed to his last account! A moment later the keel of the craft
                     grated upon the sand, and the survivors of the party were ashore.
                  "Up—up!—quick!" said Ki, as he leaped on a small rock, almost covered by the
                     tide. "Morris you see to the women!—I must take care of this man in the
                     boat!"
                  "He's dead, Captain Lane!" was the reply of the young surgeon, who had made a
                     hasty examination of the wound, using his finger as a probe. "The ball has
                     entered just below his shoulder blade, and ranging upwards has undoubtedly
                     reached the heart."
                  "Poor Uncle Jacob!" sobbed Margaret, as she turned to take a last look.
                  "Lead these women right up the bank, Morris!" Ki whispered. "By the God of
                     Israel I'll have some satisfaction for this murder! Go now! The
                     villains are close in shore, so take to the bushes as soon as possible."
                  Morris took the direction indicated, with Margaret and her mother in his
                     charge, while Ki, clambering a few paces up the precipitous shore amid the
                     tangled vines and undergrowth, took a position behind a large hickory, and
                     deliberately proceeded to an examination of the weapon placed in his hands by
                     Gatchell. It was a large dragoon pistol, and throwing forward the hammer, Ki
                     ascertained that the priming was dry and in excellent order. The flint was
                     moist, but bringing it up to his face, he passed the rim of his felt chapeau
                     several times across the edge of the pebble, and then perfectly satisfied with
                     his chances, he awaited the approach of the barge. The fusillade had ceased as
                     soon as the pursued party gained the shore, and, when the bows of the boat in
                     chase touched the gravel the soldiers on board were in the act of reloading
                     their pieces.
                  "After them! boys!" shouted the Sergeant in command, as he sprang over the
                     gunwale up to his middle in water.
                  "After you get this!" retorted Ki, taking a cool and steady aim at
                     the approaching officer. "I know you—you tory hound! You'd have me
                     swing on Hale's gallows, this morning, eh? I'm KI LANE!"
                  There was a flash and a short, sharp report, when the British 
                         ergeant
                        sergeant
                      stumbled, as though, with his bare foot, he had trod upon a sharp
                     stone. He then reeled wildly towards the boat, clutching as if he would grasp
                     its side, and staggering forward, fell on his face in the water, a corpse!
                  So died Richard James Stirling, alias Dick Watkins, a brave man, but a bad man!
                     The act, on the part of Ki, under other circumstances, might not have been
                     justifiable, but, with his own neck so near a halter, and the deadly enmity
                     borne him by Watkins, the deed was certainly pardonable.
                  A random fire, from the soldiers who had gained the beach, followed the
                     discharge of the pistol, but the bullets whistled harmlessly among the leaves
                     of the shrubbery, and Ki, swiftly mounting the steep ascent, soon joined the
                     little band who had preceded him.
                  The ball had struck Watkins in the lower part of the throat, full in front,
                     and—as was ascertained—passing through, had severed the spinal marrow, causing
                     death almost instantly. A fruitless search, of a half hour ensued, when the
                     barge's crew re-embarked, and just as the sun rose over the hills of
                     Williamsburgh, the lifeless body of Sergeant Watkins was placed upon a wharf,
                     near the present termination of Robinson street, on the North River.
                  Gatchell's remains were interred the next day in the rear of Fort Washington—a
                     detachment of Continental troops having reclaimed the corpse, even under a
                     heavy fire from the guns of the Asia—and, many years thereafter, the first
                     President of the United States himself threw the first spadefull of earth
                        from the opening made above his
                     grave, for a head stone to mark the spot!
                  Ki reached the head-quarters of General Washington—who, at that time, had
                     crossed Harlem Creek, and had established himself at Morrisania—early in the
                     morning. The information which he brought proved of immense service to the
                     commander of the American armies, and led to the eventual withdrawal of all the
                     Continental troops from New York island, and the subsequent winter operations
                     in New Jersey. Jake Gatchell, in the brief voyage up the river, had made Ki
                     acquainted with all the prospective movements of the king's troops, and this
                     intelligence, joined with the patriotic legacy bequeathed by the gallant Hale,
                     and chalked upon one of the stones of his dungeon, gave Washington a perfect
                     key to the cloaked movements of the two Howes. How serviceable these
                     disclosures were to the success of the American arms, is now a matter of
                     history.
                  So passed the Revolution!
                  
                  England was powerful!—she was almost omnipotent—but there were stout hearts and
                     ready hands in the colonies, and, although distress, disaster and defeat was,
                     all too often, the fortune of those stern and self-sacrificing men of yore, yet
                     the God of Battles ultimately interposed, and the glorious independence of a
                     great nation was finally achieved!
                  
                     So passed the Revolution!
                  
                  Burnham and his Connecticut boys were actively engaged in the bloody scenes at
                     Saratoga, and, in front of his regiment, he witnessed the surrender of
                     Burgoyne, and all that splendid army which he had so boastingly led from Canada
                     for the subjugation of the States. He held an important post at West Point, at
                     the time of Arnold's defection, and, during that fearful night, when, amid
                     sleet and rain and snow, the icy Delaware was crossed and the successful attack
                     on Trenton consummated, he led the advance of the upper column, Ki, who served,
                     on foot—since it was extremely difficult to get the horses, even of the staff,
                     across—volunteering his aid in the embarkation and landing of the six pieces of
                     artillery with which Washington started on his desperate enterprise!
                  It was a sad and solemn morning, but that Christmas carouse had steeped the
                     Hessians in forgetfulness, and when they woke to find the cannons of the
                     Continentals trained upon their cantonment, there was no resource but to
                     surrender.
                  
                     So passed the Revolution!
                  
                  Burnham's reputation, as a soldier, each month grew more brilliant, while the
                     confidence of the American General in Lane's shrewdness, tact and judgment,
                     increased continually. During the gloomiest and most depressing hours of the
                     great struggle, the daring Guardsman's herculean form was ever first upon
                     parade or foremost in the fight!
                  "There go two Yankees," said Washington to Rochambeau, just previous to the
                     investment of Yorktown, at the same time pointing to Burnham and Ki, who were
                     walking, arm-in-arm, within the lines. "There go two Yankees, who are soldiers
                     by instinct. There is no more similarity in their temperaments than in their
                     physical conformation; but, if I had three regiments of just such men, this
                     warfare would have been ended long ago!"
                  "Oui! oui! Generale Vashingtone! Capitane Paul Jone 'ave very much brave
                     Yangees! He call 'em Marbelhead boys! Sacre! dam hard marbel for ze Anglaise,
                     eh?" and the Frenchman took a huge pinch of snuff, as he chuckled over the
                     trifling pleasantry.
                  
                     So passed the Revolution!
                  
                  The closing hour of triumph drew on a pace, but, even in the hour of victory,
                     bright eyes were dimmed with tears, and manly brows grew dark and clouded,
                     while counting up the fearful cost of the sacrifice which secured it!
               
               
                  CHAPTER LAST.
                  THE SIEGE OF YORKTOWN.
                  It was in the latter part of September, 1781, that the combined American and
                     French armies took up their positions before Yorktown.
                  Thus far the two armies had worked well together, officers and soldiers were
                     alike friends. In any desperate enterprise there was a generous rivalry,
                     nothing more, between the two. The French were superior in engineers and siege
                     artillery.
                  The fleet of Count de Grasse blockaded the escape of Cornwallis by sea, and he
                     was thus penned up on a kind of peninsula, where he must either fight or
                     surrender; he chose the former, and proceeded to make the best means of defence
                     in his power. He was an able General, but that generalship could not extricate
                     him from the trap.
                  Cornwallis defended himself through hope. Sir Henry Clinton had written to him
                     from New York, just before he became completely environed, that he was then
                     preparing with the utmost dispatch an embarkation of three thousand men from
                     New York, which he should head in person. This nerved Cornwallis to greater
                     defence.
                  On the morning of the 9th of October, the first parallel or line of attack was
                     completed within reach of the British guns, and a sharp fire ensued between the
                     American, French and English batteries. The fire continued for two days with no
                     great effect on either side, the distance being too far for any effectual
                     service On the 11th, the second parallel being completed, brought the enemy's
                     batteries within three hundred yards, and the siege in reality commenced.
                  On the night of the 14th, two parties, one French and the other American, were
                     detailed to carry two redoubts some distance in front of the British lines.
                  The Americans were headed by Colonel Hamilton, and the French party by La
                     Fayette. In the former were Burnham, Fairfax and Ki. The two former had risen
                     to the command of regiments, the latter was a Major. The attack was to be made
                     at midnight, and they had all volunteered in the forlorn hope, for it could be
                     called nothing else. They were sitting in the quarters of Fairfax a short time
                     before the hour appointed for the attack. A bottle of wine and a few biscuits
                     were on the table before them.
                  "Lane, what's the matter with you?" said Fairfax; "you appear to be gloomy
                     to-night."
                  "There is a certain depression about me that I can't describe," he said, in a
                     low tone.
                  "It is not fear, certainly," said Burnham.
                  "No," answered Ki, his eye kindling; "I believe that can't be said of me. At
                     any rate, it never has been to my knowledge."
                  "No, no," interrupted Fairfax, "I would call the first man that
                     dare utter such a word, liar!"
                  "Thank you," he said, with emotion; "I knew as much," and he extended his hands
                     to both Fairfax and Burnham. "I know you'll laugh at me," he continued; "but
                     there are some things we can't understand. I've heard that some philosophers
                     have endeavored to account for some strange things on principles of nature, but
                     the mysteries of the soul they have never yet fathomed, and never will. Don't
                     laugh at what I say to you now; I shan't like it.
                  "You never knew my father, Harry; he died before you was born. He was what they
                     call a strong-minded man, though he had no education. At times he would be
                     gloomy and morose for several days, and he could give no reason for it when he
                     returned to his usual good nature.
                  "In one of these fits, he took his axe and went out into the woods one day, for
                     he was a small farmer, to cut down some trees. Night came, and he did not come
                     back. The family getting alarmed, (I was but a shaver then, but I well
                     recollect it,) the neighbors were aroused, and, knowing the spot where my
                     father usually cut his fire-wood, they went forth with lanterns and
                     torches.
                  "They found him lying on his back in the woods, perfectly insensible. He was
                     brought home, and the next morning he recovered his senses. The first words he
                     said, on opening his eyes, were, 'I shall die within three days.' He then
                     stated that when he reached the spot where he intended to cut the wood, he took
                     off his coat, and was lifting his axe to strike, when his eye caught sight of a
                     figure that struck him with terror.
                  "At a little distance, the face turned towards him, with an expression of
                     countenance somewhat stern, appeared the figure of his father, clad in the same
                     dress he used to wear, though he had been dead and buried thirty years
                        before!
                  
                  "The figure passed slowly on, raised his right hand three times towards heaven,
                     and then disappeared in a thicket of hushes. In a moment he recovered presence
                     of mind sufficient to follow, but he searched in vain, he could find or see
                     nothing. He returned to his place of work, intending to start home immediately,
                     but he fell, and knew nothing more until he found himself in bed in his own
                     house. Hear the sequel—he did die on the third day!
                  
                  "This night, while taking a little sleep, before the time comes for attacking
                     the redoubts, I saw my father. He gave me the same warning that he had
                     received. Sure it was but a dream, but I shall die in three days"
                  In vain did Burnham and Fairfax endeavor to take from him these gloomy
                     forebodings, he still repeated, "I have but three days to live."
                  "Probably you were thinking of your father's singular death lately, and, of
                     course, being fresh in your memory, it was revived in your dreaming hours,"
                     said Burnham.
                  "Nothing of the kind," answered Ki, solemnly, "I do not know that I had thought
                     of it before for years. On the contrary, I always thought my father was
                     laboring under a fantasy, for the time, and his disordered dream had conjured
                     up the apparition. But the dream of to-night has an influence over me that I
                     cannot shake off. My destiny is fixed, and my time short."
                  "Pooh, pooh," said Fairfax, in a tone ill-assumed, "take a glass of wine, and
                     never trouble yourself about a senseless dream."
                  Ki took up his glass and drank to the success of the cause in which they were
                     all engaged, and to the health of his two companions.
                  "Harry," he said, addressing himself to Burnham, "in my camp trunk you will
                     find some few memorials and a brief will, which you will open after my death.
                     Thank God I owe no one, at any rate. I came into the service with nothing, and
                     I shall pass out of it in the same way, as regards wealth. Remember this, both
                     of you."
                  There was mutual silence for some minutes between the three This was broken by
                     the entrance of Colonel Hamilton's orderly, with a request that they would
                     immediately proceed to his quarters, for the attacking detachments were then
                     forming. The party at once started for the quarters of Colonel Hamilton.
                  On reaching that officer's quarters, they at once entered, and he, in brief
                     words, detailed the plan of attack. Each of the three were assigned separate
                     commands in the American party. Hamilton, with that natural and condensed
                     eloquence which so particularly belonged to him, stated the order of
                     attack.
                  In a short time, both the detachments, French and American, moved on to their
                     respective positions. The night was just dark enough to allow them to approach
                     the redoubts, not to be discovered, with proper caution.
                  The redoubts were lunes, or, more properly
                     speaking, lunettes, covering the ravolin. They were mounted with several fine brass
                     pieces, under charge of portions of that famous regiment, the Royal Artillery.
                     The rivalry between the attacking parties was great, as to which should succeed
                     first, the French or Americans.
                  The Americans, under Hamilton, advanced in fine order, and, with a loud hurrah,
                     as they planted their ladders, struck, for an instant, consternation to the
                     foe. The latter soon rallied, but the contest was not of more than fifteen
                     minutes duration, when such of the enemy as had not been bayonetted
                     surrendered.
                  It was five minutes before the cheering cry of victory was heard from the
                     French attacking party, they, too, wore successful, but they had been beaten in
                     the time of doing it by their allies. The loss on the side of the French and
                     Americans was between one and two hundred, that of the enemy much greater,
                     besides a large number of prisoners.
                  
                  The combat was over, the redoubts garrisoned by the respective victors, when
                     the three volunteers met, and were returning to their quarters. Ki's left arm
                     was in a sling, the others were unwounded.
                  "There," said Fairfax, laughingly, "you see, Ki, what your dream amounts to,
                     nothing. To be sure, you are wounded, but not badly."
                  "Yes, a slight one, that is all. It is the twelfth wound I have had of some
                     kind or other since the war commenced, but it is the thirteenth,
                     aye, the thirteenth, that is to finish me," he said, gloomily.
                  "Don't give way to such stuff, Ki," said Harry, "come, both of you, to my
                     quarters. I know that a couple of broiled chickens and a bottle or two of wine
                     are awaiting us, for I ordered my servant to get them ready about this hour,
                     and serve them up to the survivor or survivors of the three, and lo! we are all
                     survivors, with good appetites, I trust."
                  In friendly chat of this kind, during which Ki preserved an almost moody
                     silence, the three reached the quarters of Burnham, where, as he predicted,
                     they found the chickens and wine on the table, and the party supped together,
                     with one for the last time.
                  It is well known that on the 16th of October, a sortie was made by a large
                     party, commanded by Col. Abercrombie, in which they succeeded in taking a
                     battery, and, spiking some dozen pieces of artillery, but they were soon driven
                     back, and the cannon rendered fit for service again in a few hours. Cornwallis
                     made up his mind, finally, for a desperate move.
                  There was no appearance of Sir Henry Clinton's arrival with the promised
                     reinforcements, and if he, Cornwallis, remained where he was a few days longer,
                     his destruction would be inevitable. He therefore procured all the boats he
                     could from the blockaded men-of-war, had some rough scows made for his
                     artillery, with the determination of landing on the opposite side at
                     Gloucester, cutting his way through the detachment of the French army stationed
                     there, and, by rapid marches through the country, with only his light baggage,
                     reach New York.
                  The plan was a bold one, indeed, but the very night that he was to make the
                     attempt, a terrible storm arose, destroying his boats and rendering his
                     exertions fruitless.
                  The morning of the 17th of October, 1781, broke bright and clear, a fair
                     presage of the day's results as regarded the situation of Cornwallis and his
                     surrender, but fatal to many gallant soldiers on both sides Although the
                     surrender did not take place until the 19th, the hostilities ceased on the day
                     mentioned.
                  The allied armies had erected new batteries, and the siege guns being placed in
                     position, a heavy cannonade was opened on both sides. Burnham and Fairfax were
                     in charge of the battery on the trenches nearest the enemy, by the American
                     lines. The fire of their guns was effectual in a vast degree.
                  During a lull in the firing, Ki came riding along by the trenches at a rapid
                     gallop, mounted on an iron grey horse, proportionably, as large as himself,
                     which had been given him by Washington when he was appointed a field
                     officer.
                  He drew up rather suddenly when he saw his two favorites, and said, "My boys,
                     to-day will finish the business."
                  "Yes, Ki, and to-day is the third day—you are alive, and likely to be, thank
                     Heaven!" answered Burnham, in a gay tone.
                  "Yes, and before night we shall have an offer of surrender, depend on that, and
                     you, Ki, will take supper to-night at my quarters, my dear fellow."
                  "Then it will be a supper for the worms!" This was said in a tone that admitted
                     of no reply. He put spurs to his horse, but, when he had got a few yards, he
                     suddenly checked the reins, and turned round, with an expression of countenance
                     which they never forgot, waved his hand, and disappeared.
                  A moment after, the batteries from the enemy's entrenchments belched forth a
                     sheet of flame; they had recommenced firing. The guns under the charge of the
                     two young officers immediately returned the fire.
                  Though neither of the two said a word to each other, yet, the eyes of both were
                     turned in the direction taken by Ki, for he must have passed immediately in the
                     range of the British guns. The smoke was, however, too dense for them to see
                     anything.
                  Presently, through the smoke, rose a horrid neigh or yell, and an iron grey
                     horse, "housings and saddle bloody red," rushed madly by, and rolled in the
                     trenches.
                  "Good God! Fairfax, that is Lane's horse."
                  "Yes, yes," was the reply; "see the smoke is clearing away, the enemy has
                     ceased firing by the beat of his drums.
                  It was true, the enemy were beating a parley for a truce.
                  "Follow me, Fairfax; oh, God! if the brave fellow is gone—my heart beats with
                     fear."
                  "This is the third day," said Fairfax,
                     mournfully.
                  The two followed the path taken by Ki, and the smoke which had now cleared away
                     rendered everything perceptible. About one hundred yards from the batteries
                     they found Ki lying on the ground, resting the upper part of his body upon his
                     elbow. The lower portion of his frame was drenched with blood and gore.
                  "Ah! boys," he said, with a faint smile, "the ball has got his billet at last.
                     I told you it would be the third day and the thirteenth shot, that would finish
                     my career, but I don't regret it for the cause."
                  "Ki," said Burnham, kneeling down, "
                        pereaps
                        perhaps
                      it is not a mortal wound."
                  "Mortal, look there."
                  A twelve pound ball had struck him across the hip, carrying away the bone, and
                     tearing the flesh so dreadfully, that the entrails were partially visible.
                  "Oh God! Fairfax, run and procure a litter with aid"
                  Fairfax needed no second request, he was away on the instant.
                  "Is not that the parley beating on the enemies side?'"
                  
                  "Yes, the chamade, but don't think of that
                        now, Ki."
                  "Think," he replied, in a proud tone, "have I not been fighting even to death
                     to hear that sound? It is gladsome music to my, now, faint hearing—it ends this
                     glorious war, and the colonies are now forever free." He sank back, growing
                     fainter with loss of blood, and his head rested in the arms of Burnham.
                  Although Fairfax was absent not more than five minutes, to Burnham they seemed
                     hours. Ki had become insensible. When the litter arrived he was placed in it
                     and borne by soldiers to the nearest house without the lines. When the surgeon
                     came to examine the wound, he at once declared that it was mortal and beyond
                     all hope, but that he might live an hour.
                  A little wine was forced down his throat to restore him to consciousness. Harry
                     and Fairfax stood, one on each side of his bed, anxiously hoping that his
                     senses might return ere he died.
                  Cheers were heard ringing without, when a soldier entered and said that Lord
                     Cornwallis had made propositions for surrender.
                  "He has—then what a glorious death is mine." Ki had been aroused from his
                     lethargy—his soul seemed to linger in his body to hear the glad tidings.
                  "Do you feel easier?" asked Fairfax.
                  "Yes, I'm not in much pain now, 'tis the precursor of death. My dear lads," he
                     continued, "don't forget me, but no useless weepings, for I know you
                        love me. Think over now and then of our old companionship, but
                     let it be with pleasure. Raise me up in bed, so that I can look out of that
                     window, and see our camp and flag once more, 'twill do me good in my last
                     moments."
                  They raised him up, and he surveyed the scene with a  smile. He could
                     see 
                        the the
                        the
                      camp and the flag he loved so well.
                  While thus gazing, Washington, with the French General, Count Rochambeau, and a
                     numerous staff, rode up to within a hundred feet of the house. There they
                     halted, and Washington, with his glass, looked in the direction of the British
                     works.
                  "Place me back again," said Ki, "there is one thing," he continued, pinching
                     the clothes convulsively with his fingers, "that I should like before I
                     die."
                  "What is it?" eagerly inquired Burnham.
                  "To see the Commander-in-Chief once more—to see Washington!" he
                     said, raising his voice.
                  Fairfax instantly left the room. There was dead silence between Burnham and the
                     dying soldier. This was soon disturbed by the tramp of horses near the house
                     and the dismounting of armed men.
                  Soon appeared Fairfax, followed by Rochambeau and a numerous body of officers,
                     completely filling the room. Washington advanced to the bedside. All was still
                     in an instant.
                  "Thanks, thanks, sir, for complying with my request," said Ki, endeavoring to
                     raise himself, which the General, with a motion, restrained; this visit will
                     console me in my dying hours."
                  "Can it be possible," said Washington, "that I thus see you, Major. You, who,
                     an hour ago, was acting on my staff. Such are the fates and fortunes of war;
                     seven years of hard fighting, and to die in the last battle."
                  "The time to die, General; have I not done my duty always?" His voice grew
                     fainter.
                  "None more faithful, none with greater gallantry, bravery, patriotism or
                     fidelity."
                  There was heard again a loud hurrah from the American camp. Ki heard it; with
                     his last dying strength, he raised himself in bed. His eyes glared fiercely—his
                     senses and soul were passing away together.
                  "Hark! hark! hurrah, I see them all; they are rising from Bunker's Hill—from
                     Quebec—from Trenton—from Saratoga—from Brandywine—from Monmouth—from here!"
                     said he, pointing from the window. "Oh!—it's glorious!—my country
                     is—is—free!"
                  He fell back, dead!
                  Washington quietly drew the coverlid over the face of the dead soldier. There
                     was not a dry eye in the room. Soon there remained but two persons
                     with the corse. Their names need not be mentioned.
                  A few days after, Ki's will was opened by Burnham. His sword he bequeathed to
                     him, his pistols to Fairfax. All his other military equipments, and his back
                     pay, was to be divided equally between them. He was Ki to the last.
                  Burnham had for some years been married to Alice Fairfax, their union being
                     blessed by a beautiful boy, just then beginning to prattle.
                  The marriage of Fairfax with Mary Manners had taken place in New York,
                     immediately after the evacuation of the city by the British troops, Dr. Manners
                     having returned to his former residence, where his ample fortune enabled him to
                     pass the remainder of his days in genteel quiet. His loyal feelings had induced
                     him to follow the fortunes of the British arms, until the dilemma of
                     expatriation presented itself, when the counsels of his noble hearted daughter,
                     and the infirmities of growing years operated as a gentle compulsion to induce
                     him to seek the home of his fathers.
                  The ceremony of the wedding was simple, but affecting. Alice officiated as
                     bridesmaid, and Burnham as groomsman. Yet, as Mary placed her hand within that
                     of her affianced husband, and the words were spoken which made her
                        his forever, a sudden flush overspread Burnham's features, and
                     it was noticed that the young wife leaned heavily towards Fairfax. Old
                     reminiscences were evidently operating on the hearts of both, but the occasion
                     passed, and the remainder of the evening was spent joyously.
                  "Good night, Mary!" said Burnham, as he imprinted a parting kiss on her white,
                     pure brow, "You are a soldier's wife. Another soldier would be your
                     brother."
                  "And are you not my brother, Harry?" exclaimed a splendid woman,
                     two years thereafter, at a similar ceremonial.
                  Mary Fairfax held a blue eyed, chubby
                     cherub of a baby in her arms, as she said it. It was the occasion of Burnham's
                     marriage with Alice Fairfax.
                  "Yes, Mary, we are brother and sister now, in reality. But where's Morris? Come
                     forward, here, you rebel doctor! No, Margaret, you need not blush so. Ladies
                     and gentlemen, permit me to introduce—Doctor Richard Morris, of General
                     Washington's medical staff, and his wife, the daughter of Major Adair."
                  Nine years previous a jovial party of Yale students had assembled at the Elm
                     Tree Tavern in New Haven, for the purpose of a 
                        jolification
                        jollification
                      after a return from a sleighing frolic. The nine years had passed,
                     and with it the REVOLUTION! Three only of that party were left—Burnham, Fairfax
                     and Morris! One—one, was worse than dead—the traitor Arnold.
                  "Comrades!" said Burnham—filling his glass from the decanter on the sideboard.
                     "A single toast before we part—the festivities of my nuptial night should not
                     be dashed with sorrow, but Alice, love, come here!—Mary!—Margaret! We have all
                     drank deeply of the cup! Trials and sorrows ever follow on the footsteps of
                     war!—but the glorious boon is achieved! A free people will bless our memories!
                     Dick!—Frank!—fill up! Do you remember old Jonathan Mix, of the Elm Tree Tavern?
                     And the merry party there assembled long time ago? One fell at Bunker Hill! One
                     under Stirling on Long Island! Two were buried on the plains of Saratoga!
                     Another gallant heart was hushed forever at Trenton, and yet another in the
                     trenches before Yorktown! Boys!—the blood of such. patriots makes rich the soil
                     of our country! A single bumper to their memories!—gone, but not
                        forgotten!"
                  The sentiment was responded to in silence, and the wedding party separated.
                  Fairfax remained on the paternal acres, deceasing but a few years since, the
                     patriarchal head of a numerous progeny, many of whom are now ranked among the
                     most influential citizens of Ohio and Kentucky. Morris returned to New York
                     city, and fell a victim to his professional exertions, during the prevalence of
                     an epidemic, towards the close of the eighteenth century, while Burnham, on the
                     old homestead, passed on to a good old age, a patriot patriarch indeed.
                  The thirteenth day of April, 1789, was a beautiful day in New York. It was
                     about noon, and the whole city were pouring down to the old City Hall in Wall
                     street, fronting Broad. The soldiery were all out, music and rejoicing was
                     heard on every side, and every man, woman and child seemed to be happy, it was
                     the day when the United States was to become a government, and take rank among
                     the proudest of the earth—it was the day of WASHINGTON's inauguration as first
                     President.
                  At twelve o'clock, long and loud cheerings arose from the populace; on the
                     balcony, in view of every eye, stood Washington. He was calm and dignified as
                     ever. The oath was given by Chancellor Livingston, and when he pronounced him
                     President of the United States, long and loud were the cries of the people—
                  "Long live the President of the United States!"
                  About the same hour, a totally different scene was taking place some hundred
                     miles off in Virginian. It will be remembered, by those who rend the first
                     chapters of this story, our description of the residence of Fairfax. There we
                     will take our readers.
                  A company of soldiers, in the Continental uniform, with reversed arms and
                     muffled drums beating the dead march, were seen on the road lending to the
                     churchyard, which stood on a sunny hill-side, overshadowed by ancient oaks and
                     cypress trees. A coffin was borne on the shoulders of four soldiers,
                     immediately behind.
                  As chief mourners, following directly after the coffin, were two fine-looking
                     men, in the early prime of life, dressed in the uniforms they had worn during
                     the Revolution. Then came a carriage, which contained two ladies, with two
                     children, a boy and a girl, both about the same age. Then came a long line of
                     the most respectable residents of the neighborhood.
                  Although early spring, the earth was carpeted with green; the violet and the
                     daisy peeped forth, and the wild hedge-rose distributed its fragrance around.
                     The bees murmured their industrious hum, and the mocking bird and the robin
                     made the air musical with their notes.
                  Slowly the procession moved on, and entered the churchyard. The coffin,
                     preceded by the minister, was carried in, he reciting the beautiful burial
                     service of the Episcopal church. The coffin was let down into the grave, and,
                     as earth rattled upon it, a clear voice said, "Ashes to ashes, and dust to
                     dust!"
                  Then advanced the two handsome children, side by side. The boy threw on the
                     coffin a cypress wreath, and the girl a wreath of laurel, emblems alike of
                     victory and death. When the grave was filled up, three vollies were fired above
                     it, and all was over. The procession then moved away, but the two mourners, and
                     their wives and children, lingered some time around the grave.
                  One of those mourners was Frank Fairfax, and the other, the gallant "YOUNG
                     CONTINENTAL," HARRY BURNHAM!
                  A few weeks afterwards, a square block of marble, adorned with a few military
                     emblems, was erected above the tomb, bearing this inscription:
                  THIS MONUMENT marks the grave of HEZEKIAH LANE, MAJOR IN THE ARMY OF THE
                     REVOLUTION, Who fell in the trenches before Yorktown, On the
                        17th October, 1781.
                  HE WAS A PATRIOT, A SOLDIER AND A MAN Erected by two of his comrades, to whom
                     his love was that of a Brother, April 80th, 1789.
                  Reader, my story is done.
               
            
         
      
   
