
    ----CITATION----
        Bowen, Sue Petigru, (1824-1875). Lily .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5848
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               LILY. 
               A Novel. 
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "THE BUSY MOMENTS OF AN IDLE WOMAN." 
             
                
                  
                      
                        "She was not very beautiful, if it be beauty's test 
                        To match a classic model when perfectly at rest; 
                         
                         
                        Said I she was not beautiful? Her eyes upon your sight 
                        Broke with the lambent purity of planetary light." 
                     
                   
                  N. P. WILLIS. 
                
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS,  
                     FRANKLIN SQUARE 
                  
               
             
            1855. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-five, by HARPER & BROTHERS, In the Clerk's Office for the Southern District of New York. 
          
          
             
            TO LOUISA, WHO, WITH A MORE BRILLIANT MIND THAN LILY, IS YET HER EQUAL IN PURITY, SWEETNESS, AND GENTLENESS, I OFFER THIS IMPERFECT REPRESENTATION Of a Lovely Woman. 
          
       
      
         
            Lily 
             
             
            LILY. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE droning voice of the lawyer's clerk slowly continued, 
               "-of which I die possessed to my honored friend, Hugh Clarendon, Esq., in trust for my beloved daughter, Elizabeth Vere, sole offspring of my late lamented wife, Mary Elizabeth Vere. Such a sum as the said Hugh Clarendon may consider proper shall be yearly set aside for the maintenance, education, and support of my said daughter, who, with the permission of her guardian, Hugh Clarendon, thus appointed, shall reside with his family so long as she desires it. The balance of my yearly income shall continue to be invested, after the payment of such legacies as I shall presently name, until my beloved daughter be of age or marry, at which time she shall come into immediate and entire possession of my whole estate, without restriction. 
               "In case of her death before either of these events come to pass, I hereby devise my whole estate to the said Hugh Clarendon and his heirs forever." 
               Then followed numerous legacies to friends and public charities, for Andrew Vere was a man of large heart and immense fortune, with no relations except his only child, and possessing a character so just that he considered it necessary to return, in a measure, to the city of his adoption, a portion of that wealth which he had acquired as a successful merchant in Charleston, South Carolina. 
               "Right," he said, in a feeble tone, as the clerk finished his task. "Thank you, Mr. Corbett; you have explained fully my wishes. You accept this charge, dear sir?" turning to the gentleman at his bedside. 
               "My dear friend," answered Mr. Clarendon, to whom Mr. Vere spoke, "you are too generous. I do not allude merely to your legacies to us, which are princely, but the confidence you repose in me is exceedingly gratifying. God grant that I may be enabled to act a worthy part by your little girl, and my wife's tenderness and interest in Elizabeth will, I trust, lead her in time to look upon us as her family." 
               "She will be happy with you," said Mr. Vere; "and she is so young, that before many weeks are over, my darling will have forgotten that I ever lived. Lift her up, Clarendon; let me see her in your arms; I would like to give her my last blessing there." 
               Mr. Clarendon leaned over the bed, and, drawing down a shawl which was closely wrapped about what had seemed a large bundle, he softly laid upon his shoulder the fair head of a lovely little girl of five or six years. She was not yet awake, and her rosy mouth all puckered up, her disheveled curls, and flushed cheeks, which showed traces of tears, looked as if she had probably cried herself to sleep. 
               The dying father passed his weak hands caressingly over her smooth, childish brow. 
               "I may well call her Lily," he said, smiling; "is she not white as any lily that ever grew? Oh, cherish her, Clarendon! deal gently with her. Perhaps you doubt the wisdom of making her so young independent pendent, or of putting no check upon her choice in marriage; but I have every confidence in Lily; she has great judgment. Don't laugh at that word, applied to a baby. She deserves it." 
               Mr. Clarendon silently pressed his friend's unoccupied hand, and there was a pause of several moments. 
               The lawyer, Mr. Corbett, and his clerk had noiselessly withdrawn to the adjoining room. The solitary candle, burning amid the phials and gallipots on the table near, cast a wavering, flickering light, now illuminating the wasted features of Andrew Vere, then flashing upon the strong, hearty, honest face of Hugh Clarendon, and sometimes gilding with double gold Lily's light ringlets. 
               "She looks like her mother," continued Mr. Vere. "Poor Mary! as earnestly as I recommend Lily to your care, did she charge me to watch over her two-weeks-old infant. Mrs. Purvis wished to take the child from me. She will be very angry now that her granddaughter should pass into your hands; but they never liked me, those haughty Purvises, and there is no love lost between us. I can forgive them for despising me as a low-born Scotchman, but I can not forget their persecution of Mary. But these are not proper words for the lips of one who must turn his thoughts to heavenly things." 
               A fit of coughing seized Mr. Vere, and the sound aroused Lily. 
               She opened her large blue eyes, slid down from Mr. Clarendon's arms, and, without bustle or noise, went to the table and prepared some medicine for her father. It was curious to see the tiny hands and grave little face so absorbed and quiet. 
               Mr. Vere swallowed what she gave him, and then, the paroxysm over, laid back upon his pillow exhausted and death-like. 
               Lily replaced the glass and snuffed the candle with the composure of a matron, and then, smoothing the bedclothes, took her stand at her father's side. 
               "You are a real little nurse, Elizabeth," said Mr. Clarendon, kindly. 
               "Dr. Barton said I might stay with papa all the time if I would be good, and not cry or make a noise," answered the child, with a sweet voice, full of tears. 
               "When I die, Lily, you will remember that I bid you love Mr. and Mrs. Clarendon, and look upon Willie, George, and Alicia as your brothers and sisters:" this was slowly and with difficulty pronounced by her father. 
               "Yes, papa." The large tears rolled down the child's face, and she shook with an inward tremor, but no sound escaped her: one small palm was closely locked in her father's, and she tried to find her handkerchief with the other. Deeply she dived into her little pocket: it was not there; so, lifting quietly the hem of her short white dress, she wiped away the scalding drops, and stood patiently and sadly, ever watchful and perfectly still. 
               So the hours wore away. Dr. Barton came, looked at his patient, patted Lily's head, advised her being sent to bed, but could only persuade her to resume the shawl and the place by her father; and at daylight the spirit of Andrew Vere passed from this earth. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               "WHO shall be queen?" 
               "Sara Purvis." 
               "Oh no! we must draw lots." 
               "Let the boys choose-let them vote for queen." 
               "No, indeed. This is a fair field, and we shall have no supremacy of men-in round jackets at that. We shall all vote," said Grace Meredith. 
               "Lily ought to be Queen of May. In her own house, too! And see how tall and stately Lily looks! Just like a queen, as she walks down the steps." 
               "Very well; Lily shall be queen, for all that I care," said Sara Purvis, curling her lip. 
               "Thank you, Sara," said Lily, advancing. "And precisely because it is in my own house I would rather not be queen, Nora." 
               "Nonsense," exclaimed George Clarendon. "Sara, you are always making a fuss. Here is my cap, and there is a sheet of paper and a pencil: each of you young ladies and young gentlemen, without distinction of petticoats or-or-etcs., write the name of any young lady you choose on a scrap of this paper, throw it in the cap, and when you have all voted, we will count the result, and, of course, majority takes it. The elected queen may have a king chosen by herself if she likes, and if she has any sense she will confer that honor on me." 
               "A King of May! what an absurdity!" cried Grace Meredith. "No, George, you shall be chief executioner er to the queen, and cut off the heads of rebellious and revengeful subjects. Sara," she continued, maliciously, in a half whisper, "has so small a throat it will not be a troublesome case, any more than that other poor lady's of ancient days who wanted to be queen and was not popular enough." 
               George Clarendon, who enjoyed such thrusts at Lily's supercilious cousin, laughed out. 
               "Very well. I resign the office. 'Uneasy lies the head,' and so on. Now let us to business. Young ladies, if I might be permitted to suggest one caution: don't each of you write your own name. It may create confusion, and will certainly be found out. Miss Sara, can you write legibly?" 
               "George!" exclaimed Lily, laying her hand upon his arm, while her sweet blue eyes at once implored and commanded him to be quiet. 
               "Oh yes, Lily-oh yes, certainly. Miss Purvis, here is my pencil; you must begin." 
               Sara Purvis haughtily took the pencil and scribbled a name. She was too angry by this time to attempt to retort, and surely it was a wise part, unconsciously assumed, for she could not cope with her teasers. A prettier dunce did not adorn all Christendom. 
               The balloting went slowly on, for some wrote, and then changed their minds, and wrote again. The half-grown boys, with all the fickleness of full-grown men, were even more capricious than the young girls, and countless ends of paper strewed the green turf before their decisions were fairly inscribed. 
               Meanwhile Lily, after depositing her vote, left the group to give some order in the house, soon returned, and, pausing on the threshold of the door, gazed around and about her. 
                
               Calm, beautiful, and luxuriant was the scene. The sun was just sinking. It was the last day of April, and the growth, the vegetation, the wide-spreading lands in their Southern loveliness smiled back at their fair mistress, as she, with a deep-drawn inspiration, thanked God for having bestowed upon her so much power for doing good and making others happy. 
               Chicora Wood was the name of this plantation. Chicora being the melodious Indian word for mocking-bird, and for these American nightingales every tree seemed as a colony. The house was spacious, built in a rambling, old-fashioned, disconnected manner-very comfortable, but very queer. There were curious little closets of all odd shapes, and a window projected here, and a piazza was added there, without much reference to any fixed plan. But the effect was not ugly, for glorious old oaks surrounded it, and the moss waved its gray banner over the gable ends, a fresh verdure covered the lawn, and beautiful baskets of osier, filled with roses and flowers of every sort, like huge fairy offerings, were scattered about wherever a vacant spot among the oaks gave sunshine enough to warrant their cultivation. Two fragrant beds of violets and mignonnette flanked either side of the broad stone steps, and a woodbine, with its brilliant red blossoms, climbed up the pillars of the piazza. Orange-trees, with their deep amber fruit, and here and there a lingering white flower spoke of poetry and bridal tokens; and far in the distance was seen the forest, now all green, and cool, and sombre. Turning her eyes in the opposite direction, Lily could perceive the gently flowing Peedee (not twenty yards from the house), her own rice-banks, the negroes coming in from their daily task; through a vista cut in the forest, the white gleaming cottages in which they lived; beyond, the barn, the mill, the poultry-yard, kitchen-garden, and other offices. From afar off came a murmur of life and work (but not of misery nor grinding care); in the empty rooms behind her, not a sound; on the lawn, beneath the largest and most venerable of the oaks, one known as the Traitor's Tree (from the tradition that on its branches during the Revolution a Loyalist spy had been hanged), laughed, jested, and frolicked her youthful guests, about fourteen in number. 
               Lily herself had just kept her fifteenth birth-day. She was well-grown for her years, and threatened to be a tall woman. She was not strictly handsome. Her mouth was large, her nose short, but her complexion was the most exquisite you can conceive; no pastil, which gives such softness, such brilliancy to its pictured beauties, would be exaggerating my heroine's skin. Her color was variable-tender, but always rich; and the mouth, as I before said, though large, was of the most beautiful carnation, and closed over teeth small, white, and even, like little seeds. The eyes were her decided feature; so deep, so blue, so clear, opening with that honest fearlessness so rarely seen, and differing essentially from a stare. You could never fancy Lily a coquette, "making eyes," as it is called. They were simply to her mind useful articles, kindly given her by that God to whom she was so grateful, for the purpose of seeing. If their lustrous mirror reflected faithfully the thoughts which filled her heart, it was by a process wholly unknown to herself; she merely looked through them. Her hair was no longer worn in childish style upon her white shoulders as when I first presented her to you in the last chapter. A rich roll of it was round about her head, and long, glossy, actually sparkling ringlets smoothly but carelessly framed her face. These glittering "prisoned sunbeams" were the only womanish sign of Lily's advancing years. Her dress was white, and simple in the extreme, gathered in at the throat and waist (which were slight, and girlish, and graceful) with statuesque plainness; her bare, still slender, but well-shaped arms displayed no bracelets, nor was there a ring or other sentimental signal upon her fingers. 
               Such was Lily: do you like her? Every one called her Lily; she preferred it; and what Lily liked was pretty sure to come to pass. Her father had now been dead nine years, and Mr. Clarendon had spared no pains to make his friend's loss as lightly felt by the daughter as Nature would allow. Lily's childhood had been very happy. Mrs. Clarendon was an excellent, worthy Southern matron. She was by no means an ornament to society, but she was a liberal, hard-working housekeeper. Her very soul was devoted to her husband; her children came next, then her house and household duties, finally her religion. She was a strict Churchman, relieved the poor, visited the sick-when she had the time-and tried not to believe the gossip that her old cronies whispered after morning service, or during a very occasional tea-drinking. Though she had been quite a belle, and Mr. Clarendon had carried her off from many competitors, no one would have believed it, she was so plain and fusty now. The pretty, delicate features were embrowned by exposure to the sun; the hands were hardened by washing up cups and dusting shelves; and the once rounded figure had quite disappeared, refusing, I suppose, to stay where it was so put upon by ill-made gowns. The children had been sent to good schools chosen by the head of the family, and Mrs. Clarendon had always been careful about their lunch, and that the doily which enveloped each child's portion should be clean, and should be regularly brought back every day. They were very fond of her, and though, of course, each year separated their pursuits and pleasures more and more from hers, and though they already began to feel and see that her views of life did not march with the progress of time, and that, consequently, her judgment could not be entirely relied upon, still her ear was always open to their wants and wishes, and her heart never was closed against their incursions. But the time was approaching for a more active exercise of her affection. Good waffles, excellent corn-bread, and well-mended clothes were all admirable in their way; but the moment had arrived for sympathy. Willie, when he returned for his first college vacation, and began to entertain manly views about society, said one day, 
               "Mamma, what will you do when Alicia is grown up? You will surely go to balls and pay visits with her?" 
               Mrs. Clarendon, who had not found herself in a ballroom since the winter she was married, shuddered at the very thought. 
               "Why, William, I should not know what to do with myself. Mrs. Purvis has long since promised to bring Lily out, and I suppose she won't mind taking Alicia too. One of you boys can always look after your sister, and our own carriage would bring the girls home without ever troubling Lily's aunt." 
               "But, mamma, you will never know who associates with the girls; you can never become acquainted with their acquaintances; and I have seen so many bad effects fects from young ladies not having their mothers with them when they are from home-some one who can speak openly and fearlessly when a girl is going too far," and Willie pulled up his cravat like a dandy who might relate adventures to point his remarks. "Besides," he went on, "in Europe, you know, girls never are seen without their mother, or some especially and carefully appointed chaperon." 
               "My dear boy," cried his mother, quite shocked, "don't speak to me of European women, who leave their own homes to go gadding about as if they had neither homes nor husbands. And my girls are too well brought up, I hope, to need watching. You ought not to speak so before them. Ask your father if he would like to see me out all the morning paying visits to people I don't care a straw about, and dressing myself up at night just at the time when I ought to be going to my bed. No, indeed; a pretty-looking goose I should be, and a nice house I would have, with every servant gone to rack and ruin, while I was coursing round the town with Lily and Alicia. How should I be up in the morning at seven o'clock to see about breakfast, when I got home at one or two? Nonsense, child! you give me a fever to hear you talk." 
               "Could you not have a housekeeper, mamma, to see about breakfast at that hour? You have always had more servants about the establishment than you knew what to do with, and yet you are always hard at work doing their business." 
               Mrs. Clarendon laid down the coarse seam on which she was diligently sewing: 
               "My dear son, where have you got these ideas? Do I look as if I would neglect my duties for parties and visitings? Do I look as if I would give up my time to the world instead of to my family? You surprise me." 
               Willie might have answered that, in this case, she did neglect her duties; that any woman who fancies that by leaving her young daughters to enter upon the stage of grown-up life without the watchful guard of a parent's eye and presence, is casting away a privilege and disregarding an urgent necessity; that there can be no comparison between the relative claims of scrubbing, scolding, and housekeeping, and the care of one's child; but Willie merely shrugged his shoulders, gave up the contest, invited Lily (who was then twelve, and Alicia a few months younger) to take a ride with him, and went whistling off to order the horses, while Mrs. Clarendon resumed her sewing, and wondered why boys were so foolish. 
               Mr. Clarendon was a capital planter, an experienced man of business, but had neither literary tastes nor more fondness for society than his wife. He liked a game of whist; he sometimes gave dinners to men, at which Mrs. Clarendon presided (outwardly smiling and inwardly chafing at a bore which, for her husband's sake, she did not shirk), and from which, so soon as the wine began to circulate after the cloth was removed, she hurriedly retired "to the children," and was seen no more. He frequented a summer club, and was a first-rate judge of cattle, horses included. 
               A portion of the winters was spent in the country; the entire summers in the city. Mrs. Clarendon might have gone north, or she might have traveled in Europe, for her husband was unfailingly indulgent, but she hated to move; and then the servants, "they get so spoiled when you leave them! and as for hiring out my servants, my dear friend," this model lady would say to her confidantes, "that is out of the question." 
               She could not love Lily quite as she did her own children, but she was as devoted to her as any one could expect; and the little orphan was tenderly attached to all her guardian's family. Mrs. Clarendon was a timid woman in some things, and Lily's matter-of-fact, straightforward manner used to startle her. Lily had such a way of putting aside trifles and narrow prejudices. Her heart was so large, so open, and her charity, even at an early age, was so discriminating. When I say charity, I speak in its broad, Bible sense. I do not speak of the mere giving of alms, but that charity which "seeketh not her own; thinketh no evil, hopeth all things, endureth all things, and envieth not." 
               I do not know if I quote correctly; many of us, besides, can give the letters of the words, but ignore utterly their spirit. 
               As an instance of how Lily practiced charity, she was sitting one day in the drawing-room beside Mrs. Clarendon, learning to darn stockings, while the latter lady was receiving the visit of a friend high in the Church. The conversation turned very soon upon a young girl noted for her imprudences, and whose sayings and doings were liberally reported. At the close of each anecdote, both ladies would exclaim, 
               "But, after all, I don't believe that." Little Lily listened attentively. At length, raising her eyes with meek wonder, while a rising blush betrayed her modest daring, 
               "Why, then, ma'am, if you don't believe it, do you repeat it? It must do Miss Jones great harm to have these things said of her." 
               Mrs. Clarendon, quite taken aback, was infinitely shocked at Lily's reproof, but, being at heart a good woman, she felt the justice of it, while she blamed her ward for bringing her elders to task. 
               Mrs. Meredith, the visitor, was not difficult to appease. The heiress, Miss Vere, had a right to speak; and, though she could not promise, either by word or thought, to forego the dear pleasure of picking a rash girl's reputation into holes, still she was so impressed by Lily's speech that she determined to encourage a farther intimacy between her own daughter Grace and the little stocking-darner. 
               Thus developing in beauty as well as in excellence, Lily's childhood passed away. She had no airs, no pretensions. If she led, it was by the force of her sweet temper, her unwavering truth, and her indomitable courage to pursue the right. She had very little cleverness, no brilliancy. Industrious and diligent, she acquired with difficulty, but retained what she learned. Alicia Clarendon got through her lessons in half the time, but next week Lily could repeat hers, while Alicia's task was quite forgotten. 
               I have left my heroine too long, however, on the wide stone steps of Chicora Hall; so, after telling you that, by her desire, the family always spent the month of April on this beautiful plantation, which had been her father's favorite, and that on this occasion they had invited a large number of young people to accompany them, I will return to her as she now is. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               "COME on, Lily!" shouted George Clarendon, impatiently. "Don't stand like a statue on the steps there. We have all voted at last, and are now going to see the result." 
               The contents of the cap were investigated, and George, self-appointed poll-keeper, counted the number of heads present to see if the slips of paper tallied with the company. 
               "How many of us are there?" he asked. "Grace Meredith, one; Miss Leonora Tracy, two; Miss Ella and Miss Kate Jennings, four; Miss Sara Purvis, five (in her own opinion, ten," he muttered aside to his ally Grace)-"five," he continued; "Miss Marguerite Melbourne, six; Miss Julia Melbourne, seven; and you, Lily, make eight young ladies in all. For the gentlemen: three in tail-coats, i. e., Clarence Tracy, William Jennings, and Gustavus Purvis; and in the round jackets, which Grace Meredith, still in petticoats above her ankles, despises, I think we are four: John and Edward Carroll, Charley Purvis, and myself." 
               "Which make," put in Clarence Tracy, "fifteen." 
               "Just so; and here are fifteen votes. All right. Nobody has cheated, so far." 
               The little papers were unfolded, and proclaimed "Lily Vere" to have the majority. Sara Purvis looked disgusted. 
               "Have you counted right, George?" asked Lily. 
                
               "Yes, my dear: ten votes for you, three for Miss Purvis, and two for Miss Marguerite." 
               "My dear Lily," whispered Grace, "nobody wanted Sara for queen except Bill Jennings, yourself, and herself. I would not be dependent on her humors for half an hour. We should expire to be obliged to 'follow her leader' during the whole of to-morrow." 
               "I shall only consent to be queen on condition that I choose my own crowner. May I do that?" inquired Lily. 
               "Yes, yes; I suppose you may be permitted that privilege, although it is out of May-day rule." 
               "Then I choose Sara Purvis," said Lily, kindly taking her cousin's hand, whose beautiful features were overclouded by a deep shade of ill-temper. 
               Sara reluctantly smiled, and thanked Lily with indifferent grace; but Gustavus, her elder brother, made some warning remark in her ear, and she gradually cooled down. 
               The gay group now began discussing the spot on which to erect the throne. 
               Marguerite Melbourne, a sensible, pleasant girl of about Lily's own age, suggested the very oak under which they stood. 
               "It has so long been known only in connection with that unfortunate martyrized spy, that, grand as it is, it ought to receive a newer baptism, and be henceforward our 'royal oak.'" 
               The suggestion was adopted without dispute, and the boys began to clear away the dead leaves around the roots, so as to prepare a living carpet of pure green for the ceremony. 
               "How anxious Alicia will be to know the result of the election," said Kate Jennings. 
                
               "Yes, poor child!" said Julia Melbourne; "she would much have preferred staying with us at home to taking a ride with that solemn Mr. Langdon." 
               "Why don't Angel ride with her own betrothed?" asked Ella Jennings; "eh, Sara?" 
               "Because," interrupted Grace, "Angelica doesn't choose to be so selfish as to keep all her happiness to herself." 
               "Because," said Lily, "Angel does not know the road to the Pineland settlement, which Alicia has so often traveled, and which Mr. Langdon wished to visit." 
               "Then why did not Angel go along with them?" persevered Ella Jennings, who was fond of a little malice. 
               "Because," again pursued Lily, "she can only ride Alicia's pony, being timid on horseback; consequently, my uncle" (this was the name she gave Mr. Clarendon) "bade Alicia go with our guest alone." 
               "And where is Angelica?" inquired Gustavus. 
               "Speak of the devil, and an angel appears," exclaimed George. 
               At this instant a young lady advanced from the house with a book in her hand, and approached the party. She was a very peculiar-looking person. At the first glance you thought her plain, she was so sallow, and the lower part of her face was heavy and coarse, but a nearer inspection brought to light undeniable beauties. Her eyes were very large and deep set, with thick black lashes, which lay in a massive fringe upon her cheek, and through their dark curtain they sent forth fitful rays of dazzling brilliancy, or else of still more dangerous softness. Her hair was intensely black, kept with the greatest neatness, and so glossy, that its large bandeaux, which adorned each side of a broad, moderately high forehead, shone like polished jet, and were as smooth and unwrinkled. Her dress of rose-colored barege, with wide and flowing flounces, set off a figure of the most voluptuous proportions, and the sallowness of her face was undistinguishable in the dead whiteness of a pair of arms exquisitely moulded, and a bust and shoulders of corresponding perfection. Over her head she had thrown a long gossamer scarf of white lamb's-wool, through which gleamed the profuse braids of hair at the back, and which rested like a fleecy cloud around her face, and was wound gracefully about her person. Altogether she was very striking; and besides, the nose and mouth, which I mention as heavy, were of the same cast as Lily's, only the expression was so different that the likeness was not perceptible at a casual glance. This was Miss Angelica Purvis, or, rather, Miss Purvis par excellence. She was the eldest daughter of Lily's mother's brother, and, consequently, a first cousin of my heroine. 
               Mr. Clarendon had not rejected the overtures made by Mrs. Vere's family to his orphan ward. He permitted no interference in her concerns, either personal or pecuniary, but he rather encouraged a friendly feeling from the very beginning. The Purvises were constant guests at his house, especially since the death of the old lady, May Vere's mother, who had been a marvelously disagreeable and exacting individual. They were none of them very conciliatory or particularly congenial companions. Mrs. Purvis was a had-been beauty, with weaknesses, vapors, and a morphine bottle; Mr. Purvis was ostentatious, purse-proud, and stingy; Angelica's character I shall leave to develop itself; Sara has already shown a few touches of her peculiarities; Gustavus was a well-meaning, gentlemanly lad of eighteen, two years older than Sara, and two years younger than Angel; and Charley was a quiet, plain-featured boy of fifteen. But Mr. Clarendon, standing in the position, by her father's will, that he did to Lily (next heir, to the exclusion of her relatives), thought it most prudent and generous to give them a chance of knowing and being appreciated by the young heiress. It was thought by the world generally that Gustavus was to recommend himself to Lily, and many were the scolds that the otherwise spoiled Sara received from her parents touching her behavior to her cousin. 
               "Well, jeunesse!" cried Angel, "have you elected your queen?" 
               "Yes; Lily is Queen of the May." 
               "Lily! Ah! that is right!" and Angelica kissed Lily condescendingly on the forehead. "What are you all doing now? Is that gnarled trunk of the old oak to serve as a throne?" 
               "Yes; it will be wreathed with flowers and moss. If Alicia were here," added Grace, significantly, "she could go, before the sun sets, to find us some beautiful party-colored leaves which she spoke of, and which we could keep fresh till to-morrow." 
               "No doubt," said Angel, composedly; "but I fear Mr. Langdon finds Alicia so entertaining that he will not be inclined to let her shorten her ride. I wish that Willie were at home. I wonder if he could enjoy this calm scene and Lily's royalty instead of his present European views?" 
               "Willie's absence is voluntary," remarked Grace. 
               "Dear Willie!" said Angel, sentimentally: "it is now so many years that we have been intimate with these two families, and with Lily as a sweet connecting ing link, I always forget that we are not relations, and I love Willie as if he were my brother." 
               "If you don't love him more than you do Charley, Angel," called out George, who was hard at work, "I don't think he need hurry home to live on your affection." 
               "Poor Charley!" exclaimed the young lady, smiling, and patting his close-curled red hair with the ends of her fair fingers; then turning to Clarence Tracy, who had sidled up to her, and was looking over the book she held, "Master Clarence," she continued, coquettishly, "do you wish to take me a row on the river?" 
               Lily, who had not moved away from her cousin, blushed and started slightly. 
               Angelica perceived it, and winding one of Lily's long gold ringlets around her wrist, where it shone like a bracelet, 
               "Let us go to Dr. Hatton's plantation, Lily's next door neighbor, and beg some roses for our beauteous queen." 
               Clarence Tracy was the oldest of the juvenile group. He was nineteen, very clever, had already distinguished himself by being "first honor man" at his late graduation, and was the only son of a once rich but now impoverished family. He and his sister Leonora were orphans. Nora lived entirely with a maiden aunt, and was a sweet-tempered, enthusiastic admirer of Lily's perfections. Since she was twelve years old, a grave friendship had subsisted between Miss Vere and Mr. Clarence Tracy. While he was at college, in every letter to Nora there was mention of Miss Lily. He sent her regularly the "Nassau Monthly," which was the Princeton receptacle for the overflowing genius of those hard-working students; and on his final return, after a hurried embrace of his aunt and sister, he flew to receive the congratulations of his cherished friend, the staid little school-girl. 
               Mr. Clarendon never noticed the intimacy at all. Clarence was the son of an old friend, and it was natural he should come to the house. Mrs. Clarendon thought them mere boy and girl, and there was the end of it. 
               "Oh, Clarence, don't go off!" cried his sister; "you ought to begin to write Lily's address. This business has been got up in such haste! We have so little time. And Mrs. Hatton is very precious of her flowers." 
               "Don't keep him, Nora," said Lily, gently. "If you wish to row with Angel, Clarence, you had better go at once," but her eyes said plainly "don't." 
               Clarence wavered, and William Jennings offered his services. 
               "It does not matter," Angelica murmured, her white teeth just visible in a half smile which parted her full red lips, and she glanced sideways at Clarence; "I interfere with nobody, I hope; and I did not know that it was poaching on my neighbor's manor to ask for a few roses." 
               She hummed a tune and walked away, her dress caught up with one hand to protect it from the stray leaves, her deeply-embroidered petticoat sweeping the ground, and her little feet, so daintily laced in their tiny brown boots, "peeping out," as she moved with a firm, elastic, but undulating tread across the lawn. She was so stylish, and carried herself with such an air, Clarence thought she must look like those dangerous Andalusians of whom he had read and thought so much. How pleasant it would be to float down the river in such delicious company, with a young May moon to light them back, and snatches of song warbled by Mr. Langdon's fiance! 
               Heavens! 
               "I sha'n't be long," he exclaimed; "Miss Purvis can't go alone," and off he darted. 
               George shrugged his shoulders; some of them were indignant at the desertion, and this time Lily made no excuses for her cousin. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               PRESENTLY two men-servants began to prepare the tea-table in the piazza. The weather was so warm, and the nights so beautiful, that the young people had for the last week petitioned Mrs. Clarendon not to immure them more than was possible in the house, so that recently they had been taking their evening meal only protected by the sloping roof of the piazza and the clustering vines which encircled its pillars. 
               Two more footmen, by Lily's order, placed under the royal tree a large rustic chair, and some benches which had been originally installed in other parts of the grounds; and by the time that these preparations were completed, the carriage was seen approaching through the great gate in the distance, meekly followed by Alicia and Mr. Langdon, who had come up to them a few moments before. 
               In the carriage were Mrs. Clarendon, and Mr. and Mrs. Purvis. 
               They stopped in front of the oak, and Mrs. Clarendon and Mr. Purvis, by their united efforts, dislodged from amid her pillows and disentangled from her shawls the wife of the latter, who sank in her usual state of syncope upon Lily's destined throne. 
               "Sara, dear, how flushed and burned you are!" were her first languid words. "My dear friend," to Mrs. Clarendon, "I really can not undertake such a severe drive again. I am quite puise." 
                
               "Did you invite every body, ma'am?" inquired Lily of Mrs. Clarendon. 
               "Oh, every soul," murmured Mrs. Purvis, who, in spite of her weak state, always did more talking than any body else; "we have driven round the whole neighborhood, and I believe fifty people will be here to-morrow, so that the queen, whoever she is, will have a crowd to face." 
               "Who is queen?" demanded Alicia, eagerly, as she sprang from her horse, scarcely touching Mr. Langdon's offered hand. She appeared to have had enough of his society already. 
               The answer delighted her. 
               "You will look the queen so nicely, Lily!" 
               "Has Angelica been seen?" again prattled Mrs. Purvis. 
               "She has gone rowing with Clarence Tracy," answered George. 
               Mr. Langdon's brow darkened. 
               "I thought Miss Purvis had a headache; I was informed-" 
               "Oh dear me!" ejaculated Mrs. Purvis, "there is such a breeze blowing up, I must go into the house. Mr. Langdon, might I trouble you for your arm? Mr. Purvis-where is Mr. Purvis? He is always going off. William Jennings, do come on this side. Never mind, Gustavus, stay here and help Lily and the girls. Lily, love, just arrange my shawl. Julia, my handkerchief; thank you-that's all. Don't stay out too late; the dew is very unwholesome;" and, amid a general confusion, the invalid got under way for her journey of twenty yards. 
               The tea-urn was sending up clouds of steam, and Mrs. Clarendon was dispensing cups of the strongest fragrance, when Angelica and Clarence sauntered in, their hands full of flowers. 
               "I trust your head is better," said Mr. Langdon, sharply. 
               "Much better," answered Angel, sweetly; and, depositing her bouquets on one of the window-sills, which "gaze," as our French friends say, into the drawing-room, she removed her scarf, and asked for a cup of tea. 
               "Not too much sugar, dear Mrs. Clarendon. I like a little sourness sometimes; it 'tells' in the midst of the profusion of sweets which your bountiful housekeeping spreads before us." 
               She looked very handsome. The lamps were lit in the drawing-room, and joined their brilliancy, shining through the open casements and muslin curtains, to the moon's pale radiance, which shed so picturesque a light upon the landscape and the party. Her complexion, not now exposed to those terribly unflattering sun's rays, was creamy white; she could do what few women accomplish-eat well, and with perfect grace helped herself to various good things which abundantly covered the table. 
               "Where is mamma?" she asked, balancing a spoonful of strawberries and cream half way between her lips and the saucer. 
               "Quite overcome by her drive, and gone to her room." 
               "Poor mamma exerts herself unnecessarily." 
               "There is her supper-tray; that will bring her up," remarked George, as a smartly-dressed colored woman drawled out to one of the attendant waiters, 
               "Missis wants a little of ebery ting." 
               Meanwhile, as this was even a more informal meal than breakfast, most of the girls had carried off their plates to different ends of the piazza, and, in the lingering twilight, were laughing, jesting, sending their boy cavaliers on errands for extra cakes, and making the rafters ring from time to time with their joyous peals. 
               Sara, who was rather a gourmand, always grew better tempered when eating, so that now she and William Jennings, her warm admirer, sat peaceably together, chatting about a last winter's juvenile fancy ball, and disposing of piles of thin bread and butter and sweetmeats. 
               Lily was seated on the top step of the piazza, leaning her head against the pillar behind her, with her pure fair brow raised to the sky, and bathing itself in the moon's rays. A great Newfoundland dog lay at her feet, every now and then thrusting his black nose into her hand, or raising himself on his front paws to a level with her face, and gazing earnestly, with wagging tail, as if he meant presently to say something. 
               What were Lily's thoughts? She could not quite read them herself. She feared Angel was a coquette; and she had noticed for days that Clarence, her friend, her own especial friend, was fond of watching the varied play of Angelica's peculiar countenance; but what then? She could not be jealous of his admiring Angel, and Angel was almost a married woman. Still, why were they now so much together? And yesterday morning, when she had asked a dozen times for Clarence, to give him a book they were to study together, without being able to find him, at last he was discovered in the little darkened boudoir, reading Moore's Loves of the Angels to the future Mrs. Langdon, who was half lying on the sofa, with those deep black eyes partly closed, and her taper fingers listlessly pulling a rose to pieces. Lily did not understand, though, why this should distress her, or make her uncomfortable. It was surely very unreasonable and selfish to require that Clarence should give his whole time to herself. He was four years older than she, and so much more clever, it was very kind of him to devote so many hours as he still did to a comparative little girl. Angel was accomplished and interesting. It was flattering that she should notice a boy, for Angel was very fastidious; and-why soon she would be married, and go to her New York home, and Clarence-Here an involuntary sigh interrupted Lily's train of thought, and Burleigh's cold nose touched her cheek. 
               She roused herself, patted his long, silky coat, and begged his pardon for forgetting him. 
               "Burleigh is hungry, Lily, if you are not," said Clarence Tracy, seating himself beside her. "I have brought him some cake, and a cold chicken patty. Won't you eat something? Let me get you some strawberries-a cup of tea?" and he put Burleigh's plate down, and rose again. 
               "No, I thank you, Clarence. Get your own supper, and I will feed Burleigh myself. Aunt would be horrified if she saw you offering the finest old china in the house to Bur's paws." Her tone was light again, her heart beat more regularly. 
               Clarence did her bidding, and soon hastened back. While he drank his tea, Lily fed her dog. Often Burleigh's teeth grazed the little white fingers which presented the cake, and she, with the child-like playfulness she rarely exhibited, scolded Burleigh for his greediness, pulled his ears, and then, suddenly repenting of her make-believe harshness, threw her slender arms around him, and gathered his rough head to her bosom. 
                
               "Isn't your cousin a flirt?" exclaimed Clarence, presently, with the utmost nonchalance, and a slight laugh. 
               Lily looked quickly at him. 
               "It is her vocation," he went on. "I believe she would flirt with me to keep her hand in, rather than be quiet. Look at her now. After getting up a headache to block off Mr. Langdon, when she finds that he is really angry, see how dexterously she is bringing him round!" 
               Lily's kind nature had resumed its sway. No sooner did another judge harshly than her better self regretted a severe thought, and she inwardly blamed the injustice of her late suspicions. Had she the faintest idea that her friend's indifferent and fault-finding tone strengthened her own good resolve not to pass stricture so hastily again? 
               "Look at her, Lily!" pursued Clarence. "I wonder if you will ever learn to use your eyes in the way that your cousin does execution. How her tricks amuse me! Now she is singing." 
               Sure enough, Angel was at the piano between the two windows, and her highly-cultivated and melodious voice gave exquisite effect to a sentimental French romance. In her shining black hair she had carefully placed a branch of some drooping wild flower, and Mr. Langdon, leaning through the window, with his harsh features relaxed, was listening, while her whole battery of charms was brought to bear upon his already badly-protected heart. 
               "Clarence," answered honest Lily, "I do not like your words and your actions to be so much at variance. If you seek Angelica's society, it must be because you admire her, and if you admire her, why conceal ceal it? Moreover, to my mind, there is something dis-not right, in allowing people to suppose that they please you, while behind their backs you cavil at their manners and conduct." 
               "What a little Mentor it is!" said Clarence, jestingly; but he was young enough still to show a slight flush of shame. "You do not understand Miss Purvis. She does not ask or require the respect and consideration of any man; she demands only their admiration." 
               "I will not listen to you," said Lily, gravely; and she was about to rise, when Clarence caught her hand and detained her. 
               "Don't let us quarrel about this, Lily. I shall never say another word against Miss Purvis, if you dislike it." 
               "It is your thoughts more than your words-your opinion more than your conduct, which distress me. To have gone off this afternoon when we wished you to stay, merely for the purpose of amusing yourself with watching Angel's 'tricks,' was scarcely unselfish. When I thought that you preferred her society to mine-to ours, I mean, I was foolish enough to be put out about it," and the girl's fair cheek was slightly tinged; "but, now that I find that you went only to study her, and to sneer at her foibles, I am really sorry." 
               Ah! good, but unsophisticated Lily! you never suspected that Angel had whispered to her tractable pupil just after her entrance, 
               "You to your dove, I to my bear. Both are sulky. I give you leave to abuse me by way of reconciliation." 
               "Come, come, Lily, I am only jesting. This is almost a first cloud between us. Let us shake hands, and you shall teach me to be as good and wise as your little self, and to think as well of all the world." 
                
               Clarence's tone was frank, and there was a great deal of earnestness in the dark eyes which he bent upon hers; so much that she never dreamed of reading the different tale which his thin, sarcastic lips betrayed. 
               "I can not teach you to think well of any one, dear Clarence; but, at least, we all know that, if we have nothing pleasant to say about people, it is kinder to say nothing at all. And that is so easy, we surely deserve no credit for simply holding our tongues, do we?" 
               The truthful, calm, clear blue eyes, unsullied by a single vicious thought, returned the false rays of Clarence's. 
               "We are waiting for you, Lily." 
               "My dear Elizabeth," said Mrs. Clarendon, "come out of the night air. When I was a girl-" 
               "Yes, aunt." 
               And, springing joyously up, the whole party adjourned to the drawing-room, where they discussed the final arrangements for the next day; and Grace Meredith, the poetess, and Clarence Tracy, the famous prose writer, were set down to concoct the speeches and addresses of the queen and her court. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               BRIGHTLY rose the May-day sun, and much earlier than they were accustomed to welcome its first beams the young people were astir. 
               Very soon the garden was rifled of its treasures; the wicker baskets which adorned the lawn were carefully shorn of some of their glowing blossoms, and a party proceeded even into the depths of the woods to gather wild flowers. The shadiest side of the piazza looked as if a flower-storm had passed over it, such piles of gaudy and beautiful leaves and petals strewed the floor. 
               The breakfast-bell rang; the horticulturists reluctantly left their perfumed task, and turned their attention for a little while to a more substantial repast. 
               Angel, always late, sauntered in, with her dreamy eyes and white skirts, and heard, with affected surprise, from Sara that they had all been up for hours. 
               "Then, as you have been 'breathing sweets' so long, none of you need breakfast. Don't you all believe in the 'Islands of Pleasure,' where people feast and have surfeits on perfumes? So, Charley, give me that bun;" and Angel carried off from beneath Charley's hungry eyes an appetizing morsel, to which he was about to help himself. 
               Mrs. Clarendon was getting fidgety. She wished her guests to leave the dining-room free for her housekeeping operations; but Angel dawdled, and Mr. Langdon wished still another cup of tea. Mrs. Purvis's maid came for more chocolate for her mistress, and George begged that he might have a third "helping" of coffee. 
               "I have been so hard at work, mamma, I am as tired as Mr. Conway's negroes, who never have any rest, and he gives them half a fish. Think what a mean man, mamma, to cut a fish in half for 'allowance!' 
               Mr. Purvis glanced uneasily at his destined son-in-law when George made this revelation, and began to disclaim the fact. 
               "Indeed but he does," said George, swallowing his coffee with eager haste, "and he has a horrid beast of an overseer, who is as bad as himself." 
               "My dear George," said Mr. Purvis, pompously, "our negroes at the South are as well fed and as well treated as it is possible to conceive. Instances are rare of unkindness or neglect; they are, in fact, happier than any body of people in the known world. They-" 
               "Excuse the interruption, Purvis," broke in Mr. Clarendon, with a smile; "don't 'talk for Buncombe.' There are many cases of bad masters, just as there are many instances of bad fathers; but we should scarcely argue for the necessity of doing away with parental control. Newspapers constantly bring to light horrid tales of ill-used apprentices: do Christian parents of the lower orders consequently refuse to bind their children to trades? And is an unkind father, or a harsh and cruel blacksmith, carpenter, or other mechanic, taken as a type of their class? As for the peculiar happiness of the negro race, I believe it is an understood thing that not one human being was placed in this world to enjoy happiness, but I know that they have as much contentment in a general way and in their way as we have." 
               "You forget that strangers with prejudices, and who look at the gloomiest side-" 
               "Strangers with prejudices come with their opinions, and, for the most part, leave us with these same opinions, just as we go to listen to political views given by our opponents, without the least intention of shaking their original faith. We are curious to hear, they are curious to see; but if we applaud the eloquence of the speaker, and appear temporarily impressed, it is only for the moment. We change when interest or when personal conviction demands it, not sooner." 
               "But do not you really think that intelligent men who are inimical to our institutions are often brought to a different conclusion by a personal inspection of our system?" 
               "I do not. Their views may be mollified, but hardly can we expect more than that. Besides, I entirely agree with a certain clever woman, herself a Northerner, who says that any abolitionist wishing to visit us ought to be forced, if he come at all, to stay at least a year in our midst; for a superficial insight, for the most part, only strengthens his belief. It can not graze even the outer coating of human conceit. It is interest which is the great lever to move the weightiest judgment on this point. I will give you a sum, Purvis, for your 'prejudiced friends' to make out. Given the fortune of my little Alicia, with her bright eyes thrown in, and in how many seconds would a 'prejudiced friend' discover that slavery was not so great an evil? unless, indeed, I consented that she should sell out, and invest 'the price of flesh and blood' in wholesome, healthy Northern bonds." 
                
               Lily had stolen round to her guardian's chair, and now murmured a word in his ear. 
               "I beg your pardon, Mr. Langdon. I forgot that probably you have prejudices, and, in fact, if I remembered it at first, it escaped me before I finished speaking. Besides, I am doing what I always condemn. There is no need for us to defend the justice of our position, and nothing gives our enemies a greater advantage than to discuss and argue the propriety of what exists and will exist. Weak writers on the popular topic are the present curse of this country's feeble literature." 
               "I wish, Mr. Clarendon, that you would finish all this talk in the piazza." 
               "My dear, it is finished already," and every one rose en masse. 
               "Mr. Clarendon no doubt fears that some blood-thirsty New Yorker may snap up more than Alicia," sneered Angelica; "you, Lily, will be a great mark for fortune-hunters in a year or two." 
               "I!" exclaimed Lily, coloring; "ah! Angel, I would rather die than marry a man who sought me for my 'houses and lands.'" She paused; her slight figure dilated: "How foolish, at my age, to talk of marriage! but still, let the man beware who, when I am older, proves to me, however faintly, that my dollars and cents are my attraction! Angel, I should be without mercy." 
               "Bless the child!" said Angel, affectedly; "how very energetic!" 
               Lily's passion vanished. She glanced unconsciously toward Clarence, and, with a sweet laugh, said, 
               "You must think me very absurd, cousin." 
               "No, my dear, only melodramatic." 
                
               "I wish to explain," said the girl, coloring still more deeply. "People are constantly talking in a foolish way to me about my fortune, and prophesying an early wedding, and I dislike the idea so much, it really angers me when I hear it, and irritates me more than such a trifle should. If I ever marry, I trust I shall be as fortunate in one respect as you, Angel-that the man of my choice may love me as sincerely as Mr. Langdon loves you." 
               Angelica's lip curled, and her eyes shot a glance of fierce scorn. 
               "Thank you: you appear to have thought a good deal on the subject;" and then, resuming her usual softness, "Is this the topic which Mr. Clarence Tracy and you find so interesting? And when does he have his reward?" 
               Lily was hurt; the tears started to her eyes, and the sight of them touched the not entirely seared heart of her friend. 
               "You take Lily at a disadvantage, Miss Purvis; you profit by your years and experience to mortify her. Why not direct her with your taste, judgment, and admirable tact, instead of crushing her by your sarcasm?" 
               "Why not make wreaths, young gentleman, and not speeches?" replied Angel, haughtily; and she waved her white hand toward the busy group among the flowers; "that better suits your years," and she swept away. Burleigh jumped to catch her. "Down, Burleigh!" she exclaimed, striking at him: "school-boys and dogs should be kept in their places." 
               "Here, Burleigh, come here, sir!" said Lily, as she rejoined her guests and beckoned to Clarence. 
               "Confounded coquette!" muttered Clarence, as he followed her. 
                
               A note of preparation now rang through the house. 
               Mrs. Clarendon had her hands full of keys, her apron dusted with flour, and her eyes every where. Maum Nelly, her chief captain, was superintending the beating of eggs and boiling of custards. Yesterday's cakes, all dressed with oldfashioned pastry grandeur-gold leaf and colored sugar-were Maum Nelly's delight and pride. She had arranged them in a glorious row on the pastry-room dresser, and took in her favorites, singly and mysteriously, to gaze (without touching) at them. 
               "Oh, Maum Nelly!" cried impudent Alicia, "they look just like a nigger wedding! That is not the way cakes are ornamented now." 
               Maum Nelly, too indignant to reply, took Alicia by the shoulders and turned her out, without offering her either a "Shrewsbury" or a "jumble," which had been her token of approbation to the others. 
               The number of these large fruit-cakes would have puzzled a Northerner, who might have fancied that nothing but a nuptial festival, and the necessity for filling white boxes according to the list of the guests, could have required such pounds and pounds of frosted unwholesomeness; but it is a peculiarity of South Carolina housekeepers of a primitive date that no provision is so important as these cakes. 
               A Boston lady, who came once to visit a sister married in Charleston, was amazingly struck by these countless pyramids, rounds, and gigantic hearts. When the time arrived for a ball to be given by them, she begged solemnly that one favor might be granted to her. 
               "Pray, my dear Sarah," she said, "don't have any fruit-cakes. I have already seen enough of them at two parties to last my lifetime." 
                
               Mrs. Clarendon never could have been brought to this. She would have refused, no matter how urgently entreated; for she would have considered her guests as defrauded of a just privilege. Accordingly, when, the day before, Lily decided upon this May-day festival, the first idea which immediately struck Mrs. Clarendon was the cakes. 
               In hot haste, citron, raisins, and currants were sliced, stoned, and washed, and the result shows itself in these wonderful performances, which Alicia, unworthy scion of so painstaking a mamma, declined commending. 
               The gentlemen wandered about, at the mill and over the river; then Mr. Clarendon went to write letters for the post (for post-day must never be interfered with); Mr. Purvis buried himself in a book on "Political Economy," yawned, and went to sleep; and Mr. Langdon tried to amuse his idol, who was snappish and impracticable. 
               The boys and girls were busy decking the throne, and making wreaths and bouquets. Every tub which could be begged or stolen from the washerwoman, throughout the establishment, was in requisition to keep the flowers fresh, and the clatter of tongues rose louder and louder. 
               "Sara, do you know your address?" asked Grace Meredith; "as it is my production, I wish the delivery to equal the beauty of the lines." 
               "And, Lily, are you perfect in your recitation?" inquired Clarence. 
               Both young ladies were doubtful, so they were immediately required to go off to a private rehearsal. 
               Ella Jennings assisted with her taste and theatrical judgment. Many were the discussions and fault-findings. 
                
               "Lily, don't be stiff." 
               "Sara, be more animated." 
               "Oh dear!" cried Lily, "I do wish Grace were queen." 
               "Yes, it would just suit me," answered her lively friend; "but I trust my crowner would offer the symbol of royalty to her gracious, graceful, graceless majesty of a Grace with suitable ditto, or else I should seize my crown  la Napoleon, and put it on without waiting for Sara's drawl. Wake up, Sara, do!" 
               "Lily, dear," called out Mrs. Clarendon from the adjacent pantry, "do you wish the oldest wine drawn?" and off darted the youthful queen, thankful of escape, and promising to do better. 
               At two o'clock a hasty lunch was served; at four commenced the toilet of the ladies. 
               At six, carriages began to drive up, and Mrs. Clarendon, in much haste and a black silk gown, received the guests. Mrs. Purvis was radiant in pearl-powder, billows of costly lace, and altogether a costume of such united juvenility and magnificence that the quiet sojourners on the banks of the Peedee River looked at her with never-ending surprise. 
               "What a remarkable lady Mrs. Purvis is!" said Mrs. Hatton to Mrs. Adderly. "It must be her visits to Paris which make her dress up in that style." 
               "She is old enough to know better," said Mrs. Adderly to Mrs. Hatton; "and she is the most stuck-up piece of affectation I ever saw." 
               There was quite a crowd, as Mrs. Purvis had predicted. No engagements are apt to interfere with invitations given even at such short notice; if a shower had threatened, the house would have been empty, no matter if you had prepared yourself and your guests for a month previous; but a fine, bright, cloudless afternoon, with a moon in prospect, insured a full attendance. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               NONE of the younger portion of the ladies residing in the house appeared before the time for the pageant. They wished their costumes and their little theatrical flourish to be a novelty altogether. Grace Meredith was the instigator. She had been anxious for weeks to get up the affair, and now she bewildered her quieter companions by a constant change of programme, and her incessant introduction of some new feature. 
               She even tried to impress Miss Purvis into the band; but, though a few adroit flatteries brought that haughty lady to consent to marshal Sara, there was no more to be gained. 
               The hour arrived; the sun was setting. The guests were scattered about the grounds, in the piazza, near the throne. The musicians (drummed up from the neighboring plantations) scraped their fiddles, played a march, and forth stepped through the library door, upon the green turf, a charming procession. 
               Lily led the way. Her golden curls, worn at their full length, swept to her waist; her white, girlish shoulders shone like polished ivory, and a faint blush stealing over her cheek gave so modest a charm to her prettily assumed dignity, that she fairly eclipsed the positive beauty of her cousin Sara, who walked proudly beside her, bearing the floral crown. 
               Grace was on her left, and carried the sceptre; behind them came Ella Jennings and Marguerite Melbourne bourne, Kate Jennings and Nora Tracy, Alicia Clarendon and Julia Melbourne. They were all covered with flowers; freshest roses formed garlands for their heads and snowy dresses, and it was like a moving garden that they passed over the lawn. 
               Clarence Tracy began the applause which welcomed them, and it was with many clappings of hands that Lily mounted the first steps of her sylvan throne. 
               A buzz-a hush-and Sara spoke: 
                      
                        "With a wreath of simple flowers, 
                        Gather'd from the spring's bright bowers, 
                        Thus we crown thee, dearest, 
                        While thine eye, undimm'd by sorrow, 
                        Looketh forward to a morrow, 
                        Fairest, brightest, clearest. 
                     
                      
                        "Royalty ofttimes, we know, 
                        Presseth with a weight of woe 
                        On the young heart's gladness; 
                        Yet we hope the fealty, 
                        Which we lowly bow to thee, 
                        May bring no drear sadness. 
                     
                      
                        "Thus, gentle one! while resteth now, 
                        The royal crown upon thy brow, 
                        We hail thee Queen of May! 
                        Short though thy present reign may be, 
                        May joy await your majesty 
                        Throughout its gentle sway."
                              Written by Miss Rand, of Philadelphia.
                           
                         
                     
                  
                
               It was very well done. Angel had drilled Sara carefully. At the words, 
                     "Thus we crown thee, dearest,"
                   she placed on Lily's magnificent tresses a circlet of white roses and geraniums. At 
                     "We hail thee Queen of May,"
                   her low bow of reverence was artistically managed, and the vain child had the satisfaction of exciting much admiration. 
                
               She smoothed her dark braids, smiled, glanced around proudly, and retired a step back. 
               Grace advanced more fully into view. The sceptre was a delicate ebony cane, completely wreathed with the sweetest perfumed and most brilliant flowers. At the summit a single large white lily reared its snowy petals, and around it a hedge of scarlet geraniums set off its virgin purity, and called attention, by its conspicuousness, to the intended compliment. 
               Grace was not pretty, but she had a great play of countenance, expressive eyes, and a voice of unsurpassed modulation. 
               "Fair queen!" she said, "we have seen the crown placed upon your royal brow, and to match the only gems which adorn it, fresh and glowing blossoms, we add this other fleeting symbol of your blooming majesty. A moment ago you were our equal; now, our pleasure and our duty is to obey. Wield your sceptre lightly; a hasty touch will cause these buds to fall; and as they droop and perish, so ends your power." 
               She placed the sceptre in Lily's hand, paused, and then, as if with sudden recollection, continued: "But no! the lily always reigns. Nature has spoken her throne-right; while flowers live, and Flora is cherished, so long will Lily's pre-eminence be acknowledged. I spoke for other queens of May; ours is a life-long queen!" 
               The little actress bent her knee, and the company applauded. 
               "Black is the foundation of this sceptre; Nature's brightest colors conceal the dark certainty. Thus will your days pass, O cherished queen! Life's blessings and flowers, perchance Love's smiles and garlands, will ever banish from view the fate of general humanity. Beneath a republican sky, standing upon this patriotic soil, I cry with loyal heart, 
               "Long live our Lily-queen!" 
               From mouth to mouth it resounded, 
               "Long live our Lily-queen!" 
               Could there be a more popular sentiment? An heiress, a beauty-so young, so sweet, and their hostess! 
               Tears started to Lily's eyes-tears of genuine pleasure. She bowed her rose-crowned head, and spoke: 
               "Dear friends! well-loved companions! dutiful subjects! you have conferred upon me an honor which fills my heart with joy and pride. I am Flora's representative-Queen of May! A rosy reign awaits me; a butterfly's life, it is true, but the recollections die not. 
               "In after years, when, with girlhood's visions vanished, we meet again upon this dewy turf, may our spirits be as light, our steps as buoyant with health and happiness as now! No clouds veil our future. Bright as yonder heaven smiles the pathway of our coming days. May the augury be true! 
               "Mutually loving, always united, let this moment serve to cement the tie which long has bound us. 
               "Friends! playmates! companions! right royally would I greet you, but the voice of the heart is stronger within me than the voice of position. 'Tis your affection which has placed me here; I see the motive, not the power. Mine shall be a majesty which asks not obedience, but love." 
               Lily's voice trembled at first, but soon grew stronger, and the final words of her simple address were pronounced with a pathos which gave an air of truthfulness to the whole scene. In the composition itself there was nothing, but the delivery gave it emphasis and originality. 
                
               A gleam of sunlight rested like a halo upon her maidenly brow, her blue eyes looked earnestly forward, and her whole appearance and attitude spoke the pure and clinging tenderness of her nature. 
               "Very good, indeed," whispered Grace, and the plaudits were long and loud. 
               Lily, recalled to herself, blushed, smiled, and settled her crown more firmly. 
               The musicians struck up a lively air, the young girls scattered bouquets at the feet of their queen, and many of the guests pressed forward to make their homage. 
               "Remember, Lily, your dance with me," said Clarence Tracy. 
               She nodded. 
               "As if I should forget!" 
               Angelica came up. She was wrapped in black lace, like the Andalusians to whom Clarence had, in his mind, compared her. I fancy I shall always describe Angel's dress, for it always seemed a part of herself. 
               "You spoke very well, Lily. It was a very pretty sight. Quite theatrical though. Do you think it was in good taste, dear? But then you are so modest, and can blush so apropos always, that it covers a multitude of doubtful improprieties." 
               "Did I look like an actress?" asked Lily, quite aghast; "has this seemed too much?" 
               "Oh not at all," answered Angel, carelessly. "An heiress like you may do any thing; and, besides, you are only a child." 
               "I did not feel like a child just now," said Lily, thoughtfully; "my mind went forward to our future years, and it seemed to me when I spoke of our next meeting here, though the words had been written for me by Clarence, they appeared to be all my own, and a dreamy sensation stole over me; I was not happy, but it was a calm sadness, as if I might be with you but not among you." 
               Angelica sneered. 
               "Foolish fancies, my dear," she said; "you are excited-what our French neighbors call un peu exalte, and you have assumed a little sentimental air. Come, let me pay my loyal homage with the others, and let us begin the ball." 
               Miss Purvis raised Lily's hand lightly to her lips, and her face wore its usual haughty indifference of expression. Merrily sounded the fiddles, and gayly the troop flew to form a quadrille. 
               Lily's half-spoken presentiments yielded to the spirit of the moment. She danced with Clarence, and her gentle eyes beamed with satisfaction. She played her part very prettily. Though still so young, she was already an object of attention and interest to more people than her immediate circle. The eyes of the whole parish watched her movements, and many a papa casually mentioned to his son or sons, 
               "What a singularly pleasing young lady Miss Vere is, Harry, or John, or Thomas," as the case might be; "why arn't you a little more devoted?" 
               They danced in the piazza, in the drawing-room, and on the grass. Her majesty was most condescending, and smiled upon her whole court. 
               Angelica, Sara, and a few others waltzed. The stricter portion of the society professed to be immensely shocked, but they divided their exclamations between horror and a desire to have a nearer view. 
               "I am glad, Miss Vere," said Dr. Hatton, pompously, "that you do not take part in this pernicious dance." 
               "Do not give me undue credit," answered Lily, smiling; "if I danced as well as my cousins, I should not hesitate to do the same." 
               "Surely you do not approve?" asked the doctor, who was the prosiest of elderly planters, and was striving, as he thought, happily, to talk down to the level of his wealthy little neighbor; "an exhibition of such a nature can scarcely suit the purity of your views." 
               "My dear doctor," replied Lily, "I am not old enough to discuss the subject learnedly, but I think that with waltzing, as with many other things which we do not ourselves cultivate, we have prejudices which are unreasonable; and as lookers-on we adopt ideas that shock the performers themselves quite as much as they shock us. You forget, moreover, that the principal dancers at present are the Misses Purvis." 
               "Yes," exclaimed George, coming up, quite breathless, "if you abuse the queen's relations, doctor, I must take you into custody for high treason to the royal family, sir. For mercy's sake, Lily," he added in an under tone, drawing her away, "what are you wasting your time on that old fogey for?" 
               "He looked so forlorn," said Lily, deprecatingly. 
               "Then set your uncle Purvis at him, and let them mutually bore each other. I declare, Lily," he continued, affectionately, and throwing his arm boyishly, as became his sixteen years, around her waist, "you are the best little girl in the world. You think of every body. That big-eyed Angelica walks over you whenever she chooses, Sara snubs you, Alicia hectors you, Grace orders you, Clarence leads you like a lamb, and I say whatever I please, and you never get angry. And if old Hatton, or Mrs. Winterday, or any tiresome old soul wants a listener, there you sit with as much good-nature as if you liked it." 
                
               "That's because I am so stupid, George," said Lily, laughing heartily at the catalogue. 
               "Not a bit-not a bit," said George, sturdily. "You are not stupid. You don't say funny things like Grace, nor cutting ones like Angelica, but you have a deal of sense." 
               "Thank you," said Lily, still smiling. 
               "And, now that we are on the subject, do let me beg you to put down Angelica. She talks to you in a way that makes me very angry. Such a tone of superiority!" 
               "Why, George, how can you be so foolish? that is Angel's manner. She is very superior, and very much admired. It is natural that she should treat me and look upon me as a mere child. She feels above most people, her juniors especially." 
               "And especially Mr. Clarence Tracy.' 
               "Who calls my name? George, you are accused of a wish to monopolize her benign majesty. Fairest sovereign, deign to permit the humblest of your slaves to claim your dignified attention for two moments. To descend to commonplace, Mrs. Clarendon is terribly afraid that the ice will give out and the cream unfreeze if we do not sup early. When will your majesty command the repast?" 
               "I will speak to aunt," and Lily hastened away, followed by her companions. 
               Night had now arrived, and the lawn, bathed in its moonlight glory, lay green and tranquil. Here and there a couple sauntered along, unheeding the evening dew and the cautions about "night-air" and "country-fever." Some of the "field hands" had come up to the house, and were peeping unchecked over the piazza railings to see "n'young missus" and her company; the dowagers were installed in the drawing-room, the elderly gentlemen in the piazza; occasionally a distant clatter of plates might be heard through the open windows from the dining-room, and a dishonest Paul Pry would have discovered Maum Nelly flourishing about in the tallest of head-handkerchiefs superintending the preparations for supper. 
               Here again flowers abounded; they surrounded those time-honored cakes, they encircled the candelabra, they perfumed the room, and adorned the supper-table more than spun sugar or fruits glacs could have done. 
               When a respite was needed by the musicians, and even the young ladies wearied of dancing, the doors were thrown open, and in great array the guests were marshaled in. 
               A suitable time was given to stay the appetite on sandwiches and salad, then Dr. Hatton rose to propose a toast, and gave, amid stunning applause, 
               "The Lily of these waters. May she never be transplanted to bloom on other banks." 
               "You owe that burst, my dear," whispered George, "to your patience a while ago." 
               Mr. Clarendon, with much humor, replied for his ward: something he said about flowers not being appreciated in that part of the world. Rice-planters had nothing to do with buds or blossoms, and so on. 
               "What a mercy that Lily's name is what it is!" said Miss Purvis, "for it strikes me that it has done all the wit and brilliant allusions of the day." 
               Just as Mr. Clarendon had concluded his little speech, the gray-haired butler touched him respectfully on the arm, and announced the arrival of the post-boy from Georgetown (the nearest post-office), whose delay had occasioned many inquiries and much uneasiness on the part of his master. 
                
               "You will excuse me," said the host, turning to the mountainous lady whom he had escorted to supper, and whose size and age had entitled her to that respect; "you know, Mrs. Murray, that gentlemen are always anxious about their letters, and I am on the look-out for some important ones." 
               Mrs. Murray, with her mouth full of pt, nodded her consent. 
               "This hog's-head cheese is so good, sir, that it will keep me busy till you come back." 
               Mr. Clarendon enjoyed the joke, and whispered to his wife as he passed her on his way to the door, 
               "My dear, your excellent friend, Mrs. Murray, is running risk of a surfeit on pt de foie, which she takes for your admirable hog's-head cheese." 
               "Well, I am sure, Mr. Clarendon, I shan't undeceive her, for it would almost kill the poor soul if I were to tell her that she is eating diseased goose-liver. I am sure that I should be very sick if I were to do it. These new-fangled notions don't suit old-fashioned people." 
               Among the letters which Mr. Clarendon rapidly examined, there was one for Clarence Tracy, marked on the outside "important," so he carried it in and gave it to Clarence, with the hope that nothing disagreeable was contained in it. 
               "But," he said, "I give it to you now because if there is any thing which requires immediate attention the post-boy can be off again, and catch the mail before it starts at daybreak." 
               Clarence broke the seal, and a rapid flush crossed his brow, an exclamation of delight escaped him, and he crushed the letter triumphantly with sparkling eyes. 
               Lily watched him anxiously. 
                
               "No bad news at least," remarked Mr. Clarendon. 
               "I beg your pardon, sir," said Clarence, his countenance changing, and throwing into his eyes a melancholy look, "my godfather, Mr. Clarence, who has long resided in New Orleans, is just dead, and this letter from his lawyer informs me that I am left a legacy which amounts to fifteen hundred dollars a year. My immediate presence is requisite; and, moreover, it is my godfather's wish that I spend the two ensuing years in European travel." 
               "I congratulate you heartily," said Mr. Clarendon; "and Henry Clarence is dead! He was an admirer of your aunt Purvis, Lily. I wonder if she will have a fit of hysterics if I announce this suddenly, eh Lily?" 
               "Very much indeed, sir." 
               "What, my dear?" 
               "I-did you not ask if I congratulated Clarence, uncle? I do most heartily," said the gentle Queen of May. 
               He was busy with his letter. 
               "Where is Nora? She must pack my trunk for me. Could you lend me the buggy, sir, to take me to Georgetown to-night? I shall then take the steamboat, which, fortunately, goes to-morrow." 
               "Nora is yonder," suggested Lily, "standing near Angelica. Do you not see her?" 
               Clarence strode across the room, making his way through the crowd with eager haste. He spoke rapidly to Nora. She was filled with surprise, asked questions which he cut short, and, at his bidding, left the room. 
               Miss Purvis had heard the conversation. She turned round, gave him one of her deep lustrous glances, and offered her condolences on the bereavement with mocking grace. 
                
               "Can I speak to you?" he whispered. 
               She shrugged her bare, creamy shoulders, indicated Mr. Langdon by a movement of her full eyelids, retired a step into the embrasure of the window, and discovered that her gold cassolette was missing. 
               "Mr. Langdon, might I trouble you to look behind the bronze pastille-burner on the drawing-room chimney-piece for the little cassolette that you gave me? Now," she continued, "say your say, for it will not take my future lord very long to hunt behind the pastille-burner for the pretty toy which is in my pocket." 
               "Angel," murmured the boy, with passionate eagerness, "you hear of my good fortune. I have now two thousand a year, adding this windfall to my original five hundred. It is a pittance-it is comparative poverty; but if you can decide to reject this cold-blooded Yankee, who does not possess one throb of your heart, and wait but a little while till I have made myself a name among lawyers-a power in my native land-you will yet be placed, as my wife, among the richest and most influential women in this country. With you as a hope-a treasure to be gained-this addition to my income to keep me out of debt, I will renounce the European tour, devote myself to my profession, and be the happiest of men." 
               A smile, so transient that it instantly faded, ruffled the broad curve of Angelica's lip. 
               "My dearest Clarence," she said, with melting intonation, "it can not be. I have too much unselfish love for you to consent to your wild project. I am eighteen months older than you-a vast difference when it lies on the woman's side. You fancy that you are very desperate about me now, but it is only because you have no one else with whom to compare me, for I do not count these little girls. If I were to agree-to break with Mr. Langdon-to wait till we had enough to marry upon, by that time I should look ten years your senior; and, though your strict sense of honor" (here the sneering smile played again, and belied the soft accents) "would force you to keep up the semblance of devotion, my heart would read the change, and would suffer even more than now. 
               "No, my dear Clarence, pursue the destiny which awaits you, as I do mine. Lily loves you. With her immense fortune to gild over her deficiencies" (Clarence winced), "you will be very happy, and learn to thank me from your very soul for what I am now saying." 
               "Happy, Angel!" 
               "Yes, happy. You are yielding to a youthful, evanescent impulse, which fills me with tearful joy, but which I must not encourage. I shall satisfy myself with thinking that I have done what was right, and, though Lily may possess your hand, shall I not have a place in your heart always?" her voice sank, and she looked tenderly in his eyes. "Now you love me with boyish passion; when we meet again, after your Continental experiences, and when you are the heiress's husband, your fancy will have sobered down to a sweet friendship lasting through all time." 
               "You are cruel. I love Lily, but not as I love you. She is a child. I have listened during these past ten days to your advice about her, and I felt that it was kindly meant, and arose from your interest in me, because every one is aware that your family wish her for Gustavus; but then I had no hope of winning you. It was madness to think of it. Now, it is different." 
               "It is not different," said Angelica, hastily, and resuming her languid haughtiness of manner. "I told you to-day, when you came to ask an explanation for my crossness this morning, that I was jealous of Lily's influence, but that you must not allow that to change your intercourse with her. Here comes Mr. Langdon. Give me your address. I will write to you before you sail for Europe. To Europe you must go." She hurriedly pressed his hand in her velvet fingers while pretending to arrange the flounces of her dress. 
               "Your flacon is not there, Miss Purvis." 
               "No?" she inquired, glancing up at Mr. Langdon's gloomy brow: "then come with me, and we must hunt for it. Some tiresome old woman has it, no doubt, dangling from her glove;" and, while Clarence's blood was yet tingling in his veins from the effect of her thrilling touch, she nodded slightly to him, and disappeared in the crowd that was now leaving the supper-room. 
               "He shall marry Lily," were her scheming thoughts, "and will always, through his enormous vanity, think that I am pining for him. Their house will be a better Southern pied  terre for me than if I owned it. No bills to pay for its maintenance, and the doors open to myself and my friends. As if I should decline marrying this rich goose, whom I shall soon reduce to order, for the dear pleasure of being Mrs. Briefless Barrister Tracy on two thousand a year!" 
               "She is not true; she is not sincere; she is a thorough-going, heartless, unprincipled coquet; but, such as she is, she can make a man forget the whole earth for her. Lily is worth fifty such detestable exponents of worldly wisdom; but oh! Lily is insipid as orange-flower water after the piquant, scornful, tender, delicious charm of her cousin; and I am sure she does love me. I could master her, fickle and haughty as she is." 
                
               "Bravo, Clarence," cried a party of young men, interrupting his soliloquy; "behold you a man of fortune! Come, old fellow, let's drink a glass of wine to your advancement!" 
               "For the cause which produced that advancement," began Clarence, "do you not think that I should retire from this gay scene?" 
               "What a humbug!" exclaimed Gustavus Purvis; "do put off that long face." 
               "True," said Clarence, relenting, "it will not add a sixpence to the legacy," and they jestingly drank their wine and discussed the heir's future plans. 
               Nora sent to say that she wished her brother to change his clothes, unless he meant to travel in full dress. 
               The buggy was at the door, lanterns lit, and the trunk strapped on behind. 
               Clarence courteously made his adieus and thanks to Mrs. Clarendon, shook hands with the Melbournes, Jenningses, Alicia, Sara, and Grace, embraced Leonora, and bowed to the remaining guests, whose carriages had not yet come up. 
               "Where is Lily?" he asked-"her majesty, I mean." 
               "I am here," said Lily, advancing from the library. 
               "What is the matter, child?" asked Mrs. Clarendon: "your eyes can't stand the light." 
               "The library door on the lawn is open, and I have been sitting in the dark at it." 
               "Good-by, my dear Lily." 
               "Good-by," she answered, gently. 
               "You will be in town soon-before I sail? Won't you give me a leaf from your crown?" 
               She bent her head toward him without speaking. He separated a bud from the garland, as he thought successfully, but it caught in the bright long ringlets. She hastily drew back, the fastening of the wreath broke, and it fell in a shower of leaves to the ground. 
               "Oh, Clarence!" exclaimed the girls. 
               "I am very sorry." 
               "It does not matter. You have done mischief, but you did not mean it. My reign is over!" She looked up kindly; her lips trembled; she gave him her hand, and turned away. 
               "Good-by, Mr. Tracy," said Angel's insinuating voice. "Mr. Clarendon's frisky horse is dancing a pas seul at the door. This is the occasion on which to 'speed the parting guest.'" 
               A hurried farewell, and Clarence was in the buggy and dashing down the road. 
               Thus ended the May party. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE next day was chilly, rainy, and gloomy. One of the changes in our variable climate had taken place, and instead of sunshine, warmth, and a soft, caressing air, the clouds were gray and heavy, the grass was soaked with water, the flowers beaten down, and the young people shivered about the house with shawls and worsted "wraps" thrown over their summer dresses. 
               The dissipation and excitement of the previous day had left them listless and dull. Occasionally Grace would break out in one of her lively sallies, or George would go thundering through the rooms, frolicking with Burleigh, and awaking his mamma's anxiety for the tables and chairs; but, for the most part, the young folks quietly read, or worked diligently at their tapestry-frames. 
               Angel had another migraine (Anglice, she was out of temper), bathed her eyes with rose-water, requested Sara not to tease her with questions, and, retiring to her own apartment, double-locked the door upon all possible intruders. 
               Nora wondered what kind of voyage Clarence would have. Eight hours at sea in such weather was not pleasant, and that was the stinted space of time in which a boat could manage the trip from Georgetown to Charleston. 
               Lily was silently busy as usual. Their stay in the country was drawing to a close, and she began to gather up a few books and personalities which she desired to take with her, this wet day affording an entire in-doors morning which might not again occur, for the young ladies were fond of putting on long sun-bonnets, and diving into the dark green woods even during the midday hours. 
               Ever attentive to her guests nevertheless, she sent for William Jennings, and begged that he would read aloud to the forlorn occupants of the drawing-room; so, while they were listening to some of Dickens's always amusing old "Boz" stories, their young hostess climbed the steps in the library to the uppermost shelves, and possessed herself of several antique volumes which had belonged to her mother. 
               Seated on the floor so as to dust them before carrying them off, she got absorbed in one of the old-fashioned tales, and read far into the story before she heard her name gently called. Looking up, Angelica stood at the opposite door to that which led into the drawing-room. 
               "Lily," she said, in an under tone, "I wish to speak to you." 
               Lily threw the books from her lap, and, wondering, obeyed the summons. There was an unusual air of sadness about Angelica, but, as she was at all times whimsical, this might be only one of the phases of her temper. 
               The party in the next room were laughing merrily as Angel softly closed the door behind her, and led the way up stairs, through the corridor, and into her own apartment, which was originally Lily's, but which the latter had given up during this visit, as the most comfortable of the single territories, to her cousin. 
               It was prettily furnished: the walls hung with dozens of water-color sketches and little drawings, the curtains of a bright lively chintz, and the oval glass on the dressing-table reflecting a thousand tiny trifles, such as all girls with feminine tastes attract about them. 
               "This is yours," said Miss Purvis, beginning the conversation by placing in Lily's hand a morocco case. "You told me I might have the use of that sink-table, and, being a little stupid and uninteresting this morning, I found no better occupation than rummaging in its angular drawers, for which you had give me leave." She paused. 
               "Yes," acquiesced Lily, gravely astonished; and, touching the spring, she opened the case and reverently displayed her mother's features. 
               "I know it is Aunt Mary's miniature," said Miss Purvis, "and it is very like her." 
               "Yes, so they tell me," said Lily, sadly; "do you recollect her at all?" 
               "Indistinctly, and yet perfectly as far as my memory goes-like the fragments we see in dreams, shapeless and yet impressive. I saw her a week before she died; you were ten days old, a little pink and white ball, wrapped in linen cambric and the finest flannel; Aunt Mary was pale and shadowy, with eyes like yours; her hands were royally beautiful. It was the first time I had ever seen her, for family dissensions had long separated my father and herself. You know Grandmother Purvis did not like Mr. Vere, and wished Aunt Mary to marry that man who has since turned out such a wretch-John Oakes?" 
               Lily bowed assent. 
               "I have heard so." 
               "Aunt Mary was so weak after your birth, and showed so soon that she was not likely to live, that a sort of reconciliation was patched up, and mamma and papa, who had always sided with Grandmother Purvis, determined to go and see their sister. Mamma took me along, I suppose, to cover her embarrassment. All this has been told me, or I have gathered it from vague conversations. My only positive recollection is the pallid, beautiful face, the fine white hand laid upon my head, and the tremulous voice which bade 'God bless me.' When I was twelve years old, they gave me a watch which had been given by papa to Aunt Mary at the same age, and which she had requested should be preserved for his eldest girl till that time. You have seen it-a little enameled trinket, with her initials on the back?" 
               Lily bowed her head again. These words, spoken with cool gravity, conjured up an image of her mother that filled the blue eyes with moisture. 
               "I am nervous and weak this morning, Lily. Pray be calm yourself, or one of my ungovernable fits of despondency will come upon me, and I shall be ill and miserable." 
               "You ill-you miserable, Angel! Impossible!" Miss Purvis looked at her cousin with one of those deep, dark glances, which gave such power to her countenance. 
               "You think me-" she said: "no matter; I have, ever since the time I saw Aunt Mary, cherished a kind of mysterious reverence for her. It was not a sentiment strong enough to affect my manner toward you, but it was a sort of personal interest between myself and her memory; just the dreamy notion of which I spoke a while ago, and which never included you. You see I am candid." Miss Purvis took the miniature from Lily, and, looking steadily at it, went on. 
               "This morning, when her face for the second time met my gaze, it was like an electric shock. Again I felt the pressure of her hand; again her almond-shaped eyes looked tenderly at me, and my cold, withered, scornful heart gave one of those throbs which I suppose are experienced (disagreeable things too!) by other young girls. A strong desire seized me to be of service to her child, to show some kindness to her rich, powerful, poor little orphan. I went in search of you. I have brought you here, before this passing emotion should fade from my grasp, and I am going to do you a service, which now you will not appreciate, but which, if you profit by it, years will show its worth. Shall I?" 
               "You will give me your confidence-your friendship, Angel? is not that it?" asked Lily, timidly. 
               "My confidence! my friendship!" exclaimed Angelica, bitterly; "no, my innocent Lily, that would not be a favor bestowed. My friendship exists for no one-my confidence! yes, I will give you a small dose of it. You will, perhaps, then understand me a little better. My mother has a sister, the wife of Mr. Oakes's elder brother, and they have a daughter, Margaret Oakes, whom you know. Margaret is four years older than I, but from my earliest infancy I loved her with all the energy, all the devotion of which my selfish nature was capable. Very precocious, never child-like, I have always been her companion. I was 'grown up' and in society at fourteen; vain, conceited, self-satisfied, and exacting, all my claims, nevertheless, were waived at a signal from Margaret or at her approach. She is beautiful, intelligent, accomplished, well-bred, but, though prone to cry down the perfections of other rivals, Margaret's pre-eminence I never disputed and never envied. What Margaret said must be right; what Margaret did could not be wrong. Sara was too young and too heavily silly to occupy me; my time, my thoughts, my wishes centred in Margaret. Every pleasure-party, every offered amusement, must include Margaret, or it was to me a failure. The world recognized our friendship with respect, and where I was most abused for haughtiness, insolence, or impudence, still truth would utter, 'But her unwavering love for her cousin, that is a redeeming point.'" 
               A tear started to Angelica's proud eye, and her voice was mournfully soft. 
               "Yes," she said, as if she had forgotten Lily's presence, and spoke more to herself than to her listener, while her clasped hands she slowly raised till her bowed head rested wearily upon them. "Yes, it was the one purely unselfish act and sentiment of my life. Long was I blind! I lavished the best and strongest feelings of my heart upon her. Cold to every one else, haughty as if born a princess, to her I was all warmth, all self-forgetting attachment. I thought her pure and perfect. Religious votaries might lead lives as unsullied, but where could they usurp the credit of Margaret, who, dwelling in the midst of temptations, and pursuing worldly pleasures, still preserved herself unscathed from harm! To me her baptism was a prophecy-she was indeed a pearl!" 
               Lily crept closer to her cousin, and laid her cheek upon Angel's shoulder. 
               "Yes, Lily; and what was the result of this? How was my worship, which I believed absolutely reciprocal, requited? Imagine the horror-the stunning shock! to be awakened from the dream that 'as I loved, loved was I,' to the consciousness that she was willing, ready, yes, anxious to cast me off; that on her heart I had no hold; that she was supremely indifferent different, and wished to give that indifference full sway. It would be tedious to tell all the circumstances. They were slight, and apparently of no weight. Straws indeed, which marked which way this cold wind blew. It roused me from a sentimental sleep. There was no reason to be given. I asked no explanations; none were offered. What availed reasons as opposed to facts between us two! I was unpopular-offended people by my sarcasm, and by my contempt for frivolous conventionalities. She fancied she would get along better alone. The rope was strong which had long united her graceful bark to the sturdy and more uncompromising boat manned by me, as we floated over 'life's ocean.' Cut it! 'She can drift alone, thump herself into pieces against the jagged rocks and huge billows from which she knows not how to steer clear; my insinuating progress can be carried on better by myself. Some day, if this tie be not destroyed, we will swamp together, whereas now I shall be safe.' It was done. I was eighteen, but an old stager. This storm, of which the palpable breeze could not have ruffled the wings of a humming-bird, passed like a tornado over my sensibility. Margaret Oakes and I are very civil and very amiable cousins. You see us meet-you see us part. Sometimes I sneer, sometimes she retorts. It was a mistake I made, but a mistake which has shriveled up my heart till there is no more vitality in it than exists in this crumpled leaf." She tossed a withered fragment of a rose worn in her bosom on Lily's lap, and gave a deep sigh. "Ah! the bitterest of life's burdens is to learn the treachery of one in whom you trusted. To have thought, all besides may be false-this one is true, and to be rudely shaken into the knowledge of-" Angel paused abruptly. 
                
               "My heiress-cousin," she continued, in a moment, passing her hand, on which flashed Mr. Langdon's engagement ring, over her broad and haughty brow, "you see that after this trial I would not be likely to engage in a second female friendship. I thank you for the offer of yours, and for the sympathy which glistens in the shape of that dew-drop on your cheek; but I am an unlovable person, born to dazzle and to surprise, not to be loved. With a different training and different experience, I might have made an admirable woman. Such as I am, I suit myself, but satisfy no one else. Mamma has always preferred Sara's unmeaning loveliness to my charms, which owe their power to the mind rather than to feature and coloring. She brought me before the world early, because it was easier to do so than to keep me in; and her pride and interest in me amble an even pace with the admiration that I excite. Papa has grown to-what is the word? love me? yes, that is the comprehensible syllable-love me more after every rich offer for my hand. Mr. Langdon has several hundreds of thousands of dollars. Papa considers me at this time several hundreds of thousands of times superior to his other children; Gustavus, Sara, and Charlie hold me in meek respect, and will not be sorry when, on the first day of June, the bridal wreath and application de Bruxelles veil proclaim me Mrs. Archibald Langdon." 
               "Angel," said Lily, speaking at last, "you are not sincere; you can not think all that you say; and if you do, why encourage such morbid sentiments? You have so many of life's blessings, dear Angel, why not enjoy them without these terrible misgivings and doubts of those around you? Should Margaret's treachery cause you to suspect your nearest and dearest, as well as the world in general? Do you think that all are false? Oh!" she shuddered, casting her eyes upon the dreary landscape without, closed in by the brooding gray clouds, "as well say that this melancholy day is a picture of all the days of the year. There is sunlight, Angel; it must come again." 
               Angelica shook her head impatiently. 
               "To business, Lily: you forget, in your desire to comfort me, that I have a favor in store for you. Now listen to me. You love Clarence Tracy!" 
               Lily blushed painfully, and replied, with evident embarrassment, 
               "Of course, I like a person who has been my frequent companion, and is the brother of a dear friend like Nora." 
               "You do not speak with that candor which is your salient charm. You know what I mean, Lily," said Miss Purvis. "You are very young, it is true, but you know enough of life to understand that with your fortune, position, and looks, your hand will soon be sought as a matrimonial prize; and, though I may be mistaken in my supposition, I fancy that Clarence Tracy has imperceptibly taught you to distinguish him from the crowd of George and Willie's schoolmates;" and she looked searchingly in the deeply-suffused face which was resolutely turned away. 
               But Angelica mistook the cause of Lily's embarrassment. My innocent heroine blushed more for her cousin than for herself. She had been so much interested in Angel's recital, and felt so much moved by her evident sorrow, that she had quite forgotten her own griefs against her; and the recollection of coquetries of which she could not approve was suddenly brought back by the mention of Clarence-the victim, as she fancied him, of unmaidenly arts. 
                
               To attempt an attack on him, or to suspect her of a sentimental attachment, aroused her to action. 
               "Indeed you are mistaken, Angelica," she almost retorted; "Clarence is to me only a brother, just like Willie or George. Do you suppose that he has ever talked of hearts or love to me? or that he has asked me to exchange rings with him, or, in fact, to do any of the silly things that some girls and boys think about-dancing-school nonsense? I call him Clarence, just as he says Lily, because I have known him so long. He reads with me, and teaches me. We began German during his last vacation, and there is no master I ever had who is stricter and more exact with my lessons than Clarence." 
               "Very good, my dear child, and I have no doubt he expects you to prove always as tractable; and, as matters stand upon so prosaic and friendly a footing, it will cause you less pain to hear and to put aside for a life-time consideration these simple but important truths. Clarence Tracy has inordinate vanity-Clarence Tracy is utterly false, hypocritical, and time-serving-Clarence Tracy is cold, hard, calculating-Clarence Tracy will try to marry you, and will be careless if, when that is done, your heart breaks from neglect and his indifference-Clarence Tracy is outwardly refined, delicate, gentle; inwardly, he is sensual, coarse, and violent; unhesitatingly selfish, constitutionally indolent." 
               Lily sprang up indignantly. How those mild, soft summer eyes lightened their anger! 
               "Angelica!" she exclaimed, "you are-" 
               "What?" demanded the young lady, coolly, throwing back her haughty head. 
               "You are mistaken," said Lily, while the strong feeling which moved her showed in every bursting vein through her pellucid skin. She seemed terrified at her own unaccustomed passion, and with effort kept down the first rising reply. 
               It was a glorious victory, darling Lily! 
               "You think, perhaps, that you know this hero better than I do," resumed Miss Purvis; "you don't know him at all. His character is as much ignored by your unsophistication as if he had lived in Timbuctoo, and you in Brazil, till this moment. You will not believe even when I give you proofs of his duplicity. Can you credit me when I tell you that, after his caviling speeches about me two evenings ago-speeches which I recommended him to make-his first thought, his first act last night was to lay his freshly-acquired hundreds, with the addition of his hand and self, at my unworthy feet?" 
               "Is that true? oh, Angel, is it true?" 
               "I should say, ask him; but that would be an uncertain method of reaching the truth. Lily, this is the favor I bestow on you; I warn you against Clarence Tracy. He is plausible as Lucifer himself. I don't dislike him. The boy has talent, superficial earnestness, temporary passion, which make him eloquent and dangerous even to those few who understand him; besides, he is not yet quite all that he will be. The germ is there, and will develop itself. So surely as the playful and pretty tiger-cub grows, not into a soft, sleek Angora, but into a fierce and bloodthirsty animal, so surely will the latent qualities of his youth swell into full-grown vices. He will find victims-he will find followers-he will find believers in his make-believe virtues, who will, on his assertion, testify that he is all that he would have them think he is; but for you, my little cousin, the only child of my dead aunt, whose sweet face haunts me, be warned, be wise. Who can direct you? Mr. Clarendon is a good, excellent man, an admirable judge of a horse's points, but I should prefer my own discernment about an individual's qualities. Mrs. Clarendon is a capable and worthy woman, so far as regards cutting out negro-clothes and making sausages, but she never saw deeper into her acquaintances than the outer cuticles of their skins. George is a lively, hair-brained boy, and Willie is abroad. There ends the list. Accept me on this occasion, and only for this occasion, as your guide." 
               Lily had covered her eyes with her left hand, while with the forefinger of her right she drew cabalistic figures upon the dressing-table without interrupting her cousin by word or look. Angelica rose, drummed upon the window-pane, and seemed to be weary now of the conference. 
               "Lily, are you asleep?" she said, gracefully yawning; then, lifting up her cousin's head, and pushing back the ringlets which fell over her face, she pointed toward the reflection of both countenances in the mirror. 
               "Do you see, my dear, how sallow I am beside you? how old I look for my years? I can not compare with you in beauty; I have not the fifth of your sweetness, and yet my conquests can be reckoned by scores. The world is before you, Miss Vere. You are fifteen: in three years you will make a great sensation. Do not imagine that life has lost its charm, and that, because one is false, all are. I quote back to you your own consoling words." 
               Lily had some faults; she certainly possessed a strong infusion of sturdy Scottish obstinacy. Gentle and docile as she was, she had an opinion of her own, and liked to keep it. 
               "If I remain silent, Angel, you will think that I implicitly agree with you, but I do not. The very things that you tell me, which to you are conclusive, only convince me that Clarence has more impulsive feelings than you give him credit for. That he is sometimes carried away by momentary emotions, and that he is not proof against the charms of those-against those charms-" Lily hesitated and broke down. 
               Angelica's cold, scornful look lazily rested upon her. 
               "I do not think that he is perfect," Lily blushingly recommenced, "but he is far from being the odious character that you would make me believe him. I am surprised," here her soft eyes took a sterner shadow, "about his behavior last night. His forgetfulness of what this legacy might do for a sister like Nora, who has been so devoted to him, gave me then most concern. Her aunt's home is not a kind one, and I immediately thought of himself and Nora living together on this little income, and was surprised that he did not instantly think of the same thing. But if his mind flew to you and his footsteps followed, you must allow that he had one excuse for momentarily forgetting Nora." 
               "Sweet sophistry!" sneered Angelica. "Lily, I have spoken. Here let the matter end. What do you think of this morning-gown? Is it not pretty?" and Miss Purvis spread out the Oriental pattern of her Cashmere robe, and began, learnedly, to discuss its beauties. She replaced the miniature in its drawer, and wondered when the weather would clear. 
                
               "Is there time for a nap before the dressing-bell? We have gossiped away the morning." 
               Lily consulted the great clock in the corridor, and answered affirmatively. 
               "I am much obliged to you, dear Angel," she said, timidly, holding the door ajar, and preparing to depart; "you have treated me like a woman, and talked openly to me. I shall not forget what you have said; I shall consider it always as a mark of cousinly affection; and your interest in my dear mamma, whom I never saw, will be a pleasing recollection to the last day of my life. Kiss me, and tell me that you believe me." 
               She ran back, threw her arms around Angelica, and embraced her warmly. Miss Purvis quietly returned the embrace without deranging Lily's collar, took up a book, and began to read. 
               A marble statue could not have been colder. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               IN a week after this, Chicora Hall was shut up. Through its wide corridors echoed the trailing footsteps of an old maumer, left in charge of the house, who carefully visited the different rooms from time to time, to see that the wind had not blown open any shutters, and that all was safe. 
               The overseer would come occasionally to give an eye to the flowers, by Miss Vere's order, and to gather a few roses for his children, to whom she granted that privilege. 
               Under the "royal oak" the throne still stood, and a withered garland had been left twined about it as a memento of the late event, and "to show how long it would stay there undisturbed," George suggested. 
               The Queen of May had "resumed her studies," like other young ladies and gentlemen, after the April vacation, and she and Alicia were soberly perfecting themselves in all the 
                     knowlege
                     knowledge
                   which their different teachers could impart. I forgot to mention that they had not been to school during the whole winter, but took lessons at home from a stern-visaged Englishman, very careful of his h's; a little Frenchwoman, who had des attaques de nerfs, a long nose, and an odor of ether; a music-master, who thought himself Listz, Herz, and Baggioli combined; and a minute dancing-master, who looked like a dirty-faced grasshopper. 
               On the first day of June, Angelica was married with all "the pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious" wedding. Mr. Purvis did not demur at the expense. He thought of Mr. Langdon's thousands, and permitted his "suffering" wife to enlarge her party list, and to bring as many people into the house as the walls could hold. 
               The old Purvis mansion, standing in the midst of a beautiful garden, blazed with light. But to those who preferred coolness and a summer evening's breeze to wax candles and damask curtains, there were the tall French windows opening to the floor, through which one passed into the broad piazzas, dimly lighted. Sofas and chairs of bamboo, with linen cushions to lean upon; tables spread beneath the colored lanterns (which swung in the light air, arising in gusts direct from the sea), and on which could be found heaped up crystal baskets icy with frozen fruit; the clean garden-walks, freshly graveled, and leading through a wilderness of hardier sweets to the green-houses beyond; and, above all, the moon shining down with an unusual brightness, as if Miss Purvis had had it rubbed up with chamois, like the family plate. 
               As the whole house was thrown open, when the guests got tired of the first story, they could mount the noble, winding cedar staircase to the second. There was another range of piazzas; bed-rooms handsomely 
                     furnised
                     furnished
                   
                  en suite, and all inviting admiration and attention. Mrs. Purvis's apartment looked like a bric--brac shop, and a friend could fancy her badgering her unhappy maid within those painted walls, and occasionally hurling a stray objet de virtu at Miranda's Madras-covered head. Mrs. Clarendon rather liked privately, sometimes, to pity Miranda, and she often pitied Mr. Purvis too, while Mrs. Purvis took it out by just as privately pitying Mrs. Clarendon for her lack of style and fashion, and her faded looks. In fact, it was pleasant for a by-stander to listen to these two excellent ladies-to see how each despised the other, and yet how civil they could be. At heart they were both very good women, but Mrs. Purvis was passionate and fretful, and Mrs. Clarendon liked to pass for a martyr to her "duties," and enjoyed making unnecessary sacrifices. 
               In the bride's dressing-room were displayed her presents, and here crowds loitered continually; for Angelica had too superlative a taste in dress to wear jewels in June, so her diamonds lay in their morocco receptacles, and all the company could admire Mr. Langdon's magnificent homage, and envy Angel her newly-acquired and sparkling ornaments. 
               In a white velvet case was an emerald cross. This was Lily's gift-worthy of the donor's fortune, and of the recipient's acceptance. I do not intend to go through the list. It made some young girls think that getting married was a nice way of procuring rings, brooches, and et ceteras, and the diamonds improved Mr. Langdon's appearance in their eyes somewhat. 
               Not that Mr. Langdon was a frightful man by any means, nor an ungainly one; but he was one of those saturnine, dark, unapproachable kind of people, who do not make agreeable impressions upon first acquaintance. His sister, Cecilia Langdon, a younger brother, and two dry-looking friends, had come on to stand sponsors for him during this important business. 
               The brother was a perfect specimen of young New York. He was small and thin, slightly knock-kneed, and very carefully dressed. His hair was parted with unwavering regularity; his collars were so stiff that they never yielded a momentary turn-down; his face was pale, his eyes fatigued, his manner nicely divided between indifference and superciliousness, his tone a drawl, and his air rather gentlemanly. He lived on dancing and a little opium. Wine had lost its power to arouse him; so, when he wished to be awake in society, he "brought himself up" with morphine, or red lavender, or ether, like a broken-down actress. He was quite proud of this incapacity to enjoy life. It proved that he had lived "fast," and he used to boast of how many drops or tea-spoonfuls he had taken of such or such stimulants before he was equal to the exertion of entering a ball-room. Being almost as rich as his brother, Edward Langdon had a great terror of falling into some matrimonial net, and his New York life was a succession of attempts upon his liberty, which he labored to ward off-in a faint sort of way. He was a great flirt, liked to dance unlimited attendance upon some demoiselle  marier, and then, when he saw the meshes coming over him, dodge, and escape rather frightened, but ready to start again with somebody else. 
               He had warned Mr. Langdon (who was not at all a man of society, but who had lived entirely for and with his business) that the Purvises were "trying for him" the preceding summer at Newport. Mr. Langdon scorned the advice, and had not the slightest objection to being caught, if any young lady could catch him. Angelica did, and he gave in without a struggle. The result was this grand wedding which I am trying to describe. 
               Cecilia Langdon was, of course, one of the bride-maids, of whom there were four-Sara, Margaret Oakes, Lily, and herself. 
               Miss Langdon was as admirable a type of her class -New York belles-as her brother Edward of his. She was tall and showy. Nature gave her a straight, slight figure, and art added the "fillings in." Her dress fitted exquisitely, cut very low at the back, but quite modestly in front, the skirts falling with a gradual, graceful slope, of a decided outward tendency from the waist to the feet. Her hair was arranged so as most to become a face neither pretty nor plain, but for which fine eyes and dazzling teeth were expected to do the work of beauty. Not an available point was left uncultivated. Cecilia knew in which position her features looked best. A dimple on the shoulder was cherished like a dear friend, and never forgotten; her very eyebrows were smoothed to a certain shape, and her hand was not seen ungloved unless by mere accident. The effect was worth the care, it must be allowed; for a girl who, "let alone," would not have been otherwise than plain, produced the notion that she was verging on decided good looks. But then every thing she wore was so fresh, so unhandled-every thing matched-nothing predominated; her costume was like a well-mixed salad, where no ingredient strikingly prevails. And, after all, what is a woman without her dress? 
               To my mind, the Venus, in a shabby, short-waisted gown of tawdry colors, would never be an attractive object; but here I entreat that no reader will lay down this humble volume, and begin to prate about the absurdity of modern fashions at all for the Venus, and talk of French corsets and her untrammeled waist. I know the whole tirade beforehand-who does not?-and I merely mention the Venus to show how a perfectly beautiful woman might look badly dressed, as compared with one of lesser natural attractions, who knows how to put greens and pinks together, and where ribbons and flowers are well chosen and suit her. 
               Now this aptness of toilet Cecilia Langdon had studied and thoroughly understood. There was no other branch of education in which she could take her degree of M. A. except in dancing; but she was a lively, conversible girl, full of the small phrases of society, who made a little talk wherever she went, looked interested in what was said, never dreaded to compromise her dignity by being seen with so and so, decidedly preferred her "own set," but could chat just as gayly in some one else's; consequently, though surrounded on this occasion by dozens of young women who surpassed her in beauty, and who were her superiors in solid reading and acquirements, she quite overlaid them by her facility of access, and by her power of using the "small change" of fashionable dialogue. 
               Angelica enjoyed her new relations vastly. Edward's emptiness and self-conceit, and Cecilia's overflowing bustle and superficialness, with their united pretensions, charmed her. 
               I don't think she ever longed for a confidante more than on that evening, to whom she might slyly indulge in a few remarks about her husband's brother and sister; but, as Margaret was out of the question in that line, Lily would not have enjoyed satirical laughs, and Sara would have needed explanations, Angel quietly kept them to herself, and played her part to admiration. So full of suavity, so dignified, so graceful, she was determined that the last impressions she left of her girlhood should contradict former ideas of insolence and indifference. 
               Mrs. Purvis was in her glory; and Mr. Purvis nodded his grizzled head, and winked his eyes under his near-sighted spectacles with delight. He rubbed his large nose, and thought how cleverly he had managed to marry off Angelica to so rich a man without paying down a single cent of dowry more than the ten thousand dollars left her by her grandmother Purvis. 
               Clarence Tracy had returned from New Orleans a few days before the wedding, and was invited for groomsman. He had not seen Angelica since their interview on the night of the May party, and he was longing for some indication that she remembered him. 
               He had made his congratulations with the others after the ceremony, but no glance, no whisper from the bride betokened that she had him more in her thoughts than any one else. He was restless, uneasy, put out. Lily's manner to him was uncertain. She had not given him her usual, open, girlish, frank reception on his arrival in the city; and this evening she seemed to avoid him, and, though her words were kind as usual, there was a misty coolness, a flickering cloud between them. 
               Toward the close of the party, just before the supper was announced (for, with us, you can not have a buffet, the positive rule being that every lady rushes home immediately after serving refreshments, and with such precipitation that one might fancy they only came for the meal, except that they eat nothing, so that why people give parties, and why others go to them, has always puzzled me, seeing that their notion appears to be to get to the house as late as possible, and to leave it as quickly as they can)-but, as I said, the supper hour was near at hand, when Clarence, who was listening to Cecilia Langdon, saw Angelica comparatively alone. Mr. Clarendon was speaking to her, and Clarence knew that, being an elderly gentleman, he would beat a hasty retreat so soon as an unmarried youth came near. 
               "Are you not going to Sharon or Saratoga?" Miss Langdon asked; "no, to Europe? Ah! how delightful! We shall all go next year, Angelica and my brother-probably this autumn, to winter in Rome. Will you go to Rome? I do love Rome and the Roman Catholics. There is something so entrainant in their religion. Are you-" 
               "I beg your pardon," said Clarence, bowing profoundly; "permit me to present to you, Miss Langdon, Mr. Alfred Greville;" and he rapidly seized by the arm a young man who was standing near him, and went through the introduction with marvelous celerity. 
               Alfred Greville looked amazed, but was quite conformable, and Miss Langdon continued her uninterrupted flow of words as easily to the new-comer as to the previous victim. It made no difference. She had come to Charleston to be civil to the inhabitants, and to tell "our set" when she got home how queerly they dressed, and how little they danced-one man was no worse nor better than another. 
               Clarence hastened to Angelica. She received him cordially enough, and Mr. Clarendon backed out as expected. 
               "You have not been kind this evening," Clarence began; "you have not tried to cheer me or to comfort me." 
               A wide lifting of Mrs. Langdon's eyelids brought him to a sudden stop. 
               "Did you not promise to consider me always as a friend?" Clarence began, in another key; "and is it not a legitimate source of distress for a friend that you should be on 'the eve of leaving us forever?'" 
               "Not forever," answered the bride, with one of her gravest smiles. "I am not banished from Carolina, I hope. You are going away as well as myself, and I do not think that any wonderful dejection is perceptible in your looks or manner." 
               "Piqued, by Jove!" thought Clarence; and the fact is, that absence and a little gay society had enabled this volatile young gentleman to recover bravely from his heart-attack. He had begun to look upon a renounced voyage to Europe as a terrible calamity, and already thanked Angelica for her rejection, although he desired ardently to keep up a little sentiment with her. 
               "Won't you take my arm?" he said; "let us find a vacant seat more comfortable than this glaring light and heat." 
               Angelica consented. 
               On their way out they passed Lily. She was quite surrounded by a group of young men already scenting her thousands, and her prettiness and gentleness aided their admiration. Angelica gave her a kind glance. Lily returned it with one of grave displeasure, and turned away. It was the crisis of her life. Had she not misunderstood her cousin at that moment, probably this story would never have been written. 
               Angelica's bitter smile aged her face for an instant, and her part was taken. 
               "Clarence," she said, when they had found one of those cool, comfortable couches in the piazza, "I was a little cross just now; let us make it up;" and she held out her hand, which he warmly pressed. 
               "You are always sweet," he said; "always more charming than any other woman." 
               She fixed her dangerous eyes upon him, and played with the end of the "application de Bruxelles" veil. 
               "And Lily?" she asked. 
                
               "Oh, Lily is such a mere girl." 
               The beautiful bust, shaded by folds of transparent lace, heaved with one half-sigh, quite audible and perceptible to her companion. 
               "It is fate. It can not be avoided, Clarence. You must marry Lily, and before you leave for Europe. When do you go, by the way?" 
               "Next year-next week-to-morrow-how do I know? I only know that I am talking to you again." 
               "You will never talk to me again, if you go on in this absurd manner," said Angel, smiling, and putting out her red lip with a pout of assumed displeasure. "Before you go to Europe, I say-this very night, if you choose, have a talk with her. You will find her a little impracticable. Shall I tell you why? I was angry with you, angry with myself-nervous and vexed with all the world. I had the blues the day after the May party, and I called up Lily to do-what think you?-to warn her against you, and in a measure I succeeded." 
               Clarence started, and compressed his thin lips. "Did you tell her-" he asked. 
               "That you had laid your new fortune at my feet? Yes." 
               "How did she take it?" 
               "Not as I would have taken the defalcation of a man I loved," and Angelica's dark eyes flashed, and her white hands trembled; "not as I would look if at this moment I could believe-any one-I love-false." It is impossible to render the bewitching softness of her accent as she concluded, as contrasted with the fierce passion of her first words. 
               "Lily can never experience your depth of feeling," said Clarence, with a sigh. 
                
               "I told her that she would never be happy with you; that you were inconstant, cold, and unreliable. Now let it be your part to undeceive her. Tell her of your own accord, without a question from her, that you come a penitent to her feet; that you were led astray by my 'wicked wiles;' and I leave it to your cleverness to shadow forth your own failings as I clearly depicted them, in a manner to convince her that, though you have faults, she can make them virtues. Don't abuse me. Lay the blame of your proposal to me on your own momentary folly, for it is the inconsistency of your words and actions which most grieves her in this business. The little thing loves you, but she scarcely knows it; and her heart speaks very strongly for you. Disarm her criticism by acknowledging your failings, and this step, which I at first intended to be against you, will ultimately end in your favor." 
               "Why did you say such things of me?" asked Clarence, with reproachful accent. 
               "That you were hypocritical and false?" answered Angel, laughing; "because it is true, though she need not know it." But, seeing Clarence's brow darken, and an impatient, angered look in his eye, she continued, "I had the blues-I was cross-Heaven knows what. Don't question me too closely, Clarence. Perhaps I envied her the happiness which could never, with prudential considerations, be mine-I was 'dog in the manger'-ish. The bright fruit I could not gather, I did not choose that she should pluck, and I told her the core was decayed." 
               With an exclamation of joy and gratified vanity, the boy caught the beautiful hand which coquettishly was tearing to pieces her bouquet of snowy flowers, while her heavily-fringed lids were alternately raised toward him or tenderly cast down. 
               This was a step too far. 
               "Mr. Tracy!" she exclaimed, with a tone of wounded pride; and as Clarence muttered a "forgive me" in the humblest manner, she gravely proceeded. 
               "If you wish that the friendship that subsists between us should continue, you must learn to put a little more control upon these boyish outbursts; but I pass this over now, and what I wished to say to you must be quickly said. The prospect before you-the prize within your grasp-is one to be envied. You speak of Lily always as a child. She is a child in her worldly notions, her ideas of rectitude, propriety, and so on; but, so far as these are concerned, she will be just such a child always; only, as she grows older, she will get these staid principles more firmly fixed; she will lose her childlike belief that all her acquaintances possess these virtues, to her mind so essential; and soft, yielding, and pliable as you find her now, she will become as adamant to the incursions of those whom she may fancy desirous of throwing down the bulwarks of her character and disposition. We will live to see Lily a strong woman, but strong only in her feminine qualities." 
               "What a picture!" ejaculated Clarence. 'You either overrate or underrate her. She is sweet-tempered, gentle, dove-like. The only fault I find in Lily is her want of strength." 
               "There lies your egregious mistake. She will not be an insipid companion. Her intellect is not of a brilliant order. She will never admire your favorite authors, nor adopt your sneering opinions, but she will have the charm of natural simplicity. All that is true, all that is pure, will strike an answering chord in her, and her love of what is right, and her deep religious sentiment, will constantly threaten to sweep away her love of what is 'pleasantly wrong,' and her sentiment of physical and mental admiration as set forth in yourself. Do not fancy that you are likely to fall asleep holding her hand; you will have to keep wide awake in a year or two, during your time of probation, so as to conceal from those earnest blue eyes a few little discrepancies." 
               Clarence smiled slightly and mused a while. 
               "I shall be very comfortable, I suppose," he said. "There was a time, and it was not long ago either, that I imagined a life with Lily the very perfection of human bliss. I taught her, and she looked up to me: she was so mild, so entirely unselfish, and admired me with such hearty yet timid fervor. It was flattering and very sweet. Now, it appears to me as if it was too sweet-all sugar and water." 
               "The time will come again," said Angel, rising, and leaning with graceful abandon upon the balustrade of the piazza, "when she will be to you the type of perfect womanhood. Cautious, scheming, gray-hearted women like myself will be too much of your own stamp to be loved. You will seek us as pleasant companions-charming creatures to trifle with, but it is such beings as Lily that men of mark wish to marry. Adieu, Clarence. We will meet again in some crowd to-morrow, but this is our last 'talk.' Recollect that in marrying Lily you gain wealth, a pretty wife, and cousinship to 'yours most devotedly.'" 
               Angelica laughed, and bent her flexible waist in a dismissal of regal suavity and smiling farewell. 
               Her companion would have spoken again, but, passing ing her fingers lightly over her lips as a sign of silence, she entered into conversation with a gentleman who joined them, and whom her quick and ever-watchful eye had seen approaching. 
               Clarence Tracy walked slowly away, and thought over Angelica's words. How she puzzled him! She had twisted him around from point to point, till his head was quite bewildered. She liked him, and she didn't care two straws about him. At one moment, to marry Lily would be a sacrifice to mere gold; at another, it was indeed a thing to strive for. 
               But never, for one second, did this promising youth doubt but that Lily herself would gladly accept the favor of his hand. His only fear was lest he should be giving himself up for too small a return. 
               After wandering about for a quarter of an hour, he thought he would go and speak to Lily. She was still hemmed in by a little circle of admirers, who were endeavoring to fix her attention. She listened, and smiled, and replied with courteousness, but occasionally her eyes would travel beyond them, and seek some object out of view. 
               Clarence drew near. Her color varied, and she answered absently, but she did not turn toward him, so presently he moved off, saying to himself, 
               "I will go to see her to-morrow morning." 
               The looked-for supper arrived-a most elegant, sumptuous, and well-chosen feast. The ladies were duly plied with bon-bons and tiny drops of Champagne, and the entertainment was over for them. 
               Mantles and hoods were in requisition; carriages were called; horses, startled out of their stand-up naps, drowsily moved at the summons; their drivers, who had been discoursing each other with eager volubility, and catching pleasing glimpses of the company over the garden walls, tightened their reins; old gentlemen carefully deposited old ladies (their hands full of wedding-cake boxes) into the old coaches, and young gentlemen gallantly and whisperingly escorted young ladies (who went tripping along with modest condescension on the arms of their partners) into the same venerable conveyances; the larger portion of the gentlemen returned to the supper-room for a final glass, and Mrs. Purvis wearily bowed out her last guest. 
               One great feat of her life was accomplished. Angelica was married! The bringing up of children in the world generally bewilders my reasoning powers as much as the giving of balls, in Charleston particularly. There is an equally strong desire to have them and-to get rid of them. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               LILY was preparing her French lessons the next morning when Clarence entered the dining-room where she sat. 
               She received him with quiet grace, and asked after Nora. 
               "You are early and busy to-day, Lily, in spite of the gay doings and late hours last night." 
               "Yes," she answered; "Alicia is tired out, and has a headache; but I am quite well, and feel fresh as ever." 
               "You look fresh as a rose-bud," said Clarence, admiringly, as he noticed the fine, transparent texture of lips, cheek, and brow. "You have such a wonderful skin! See your hands! they are like little rolls of white velvet, with a reflection of a new-born carnation thrown on the palm." 
               Lily laughed, and withdrew her hand. "Will you have some figs?" she said. "I put them there for Mademoiselle Durony, but there are enough for both you and her;" and she offered a plateful of yellow and purple fruit, lusciously tempting. 
               "No, thank you, Lily. The fact is, I am come this morning to have a little chat with you; are you at leisure? But I need not ask, for I shall not detain you long. Lily, I have been a great fool, and I wish to tell you about it." 
               "Well," said Lily, simply, and she carefully placed her Grammaire des Grammaires on the top of Du Verger's Phrases, supported it on the one side with "Corinne rinne," and on the other with Bonilly's "Contes  ma fille," piled her exercise-book on the summit, removed them all again, and then replaced the structure with renewed diligence and assiduity while Clarence spoke. 
               "While we were at Chicora, Lily, I fell in love with your cousin Angelica." He paused. "You don't seem surprised. Did you guess it before this?" He sighed. "I suppose you did. She is very attractive and very dangerous. She flirted with me, and I was taken with her beauty and cleverness. I ought not to say that I was 'in love,' for the sentiment, the fancy, was too evanescent to be dignified with that title; but I was dazzled by her, and it went farther than you will almost believe. When I received the news of Mr. Clarence's legacy, I offered myself to her. You know we had gone roving the previous afternoon, and she let me perceive that she was not happy-that she did not care for Mr. Langdon, and I foolishly came to the conclusion that she might be happier with me. I can scarcely regret this, however, for, though it was a mortification at the time, no sooner had I said the rash words than I repented of them. Before she answered me I had begun to think that I was hasty, and during that drive to Georgetown I felt as if I had made a luckier escape than I deserved. My heart, in the end, was not to suffer from the heedlessness of my fancy." 
               Lily raised her eyes, and looked for an instant at her friend gravely and silently. 
               Clarence left his chair, and seated himself on the sofa which she occupied, but a little way off. 
               "Not that I mean, Lily, to say any thing against Mrs. Langdon, but she is not, to my quieter aspirations, the wife whom I would seek. You smile a little tle at that magic syllable 'wife,' but recollect that I am nearly twenty. We are getting old. I never wish to keep any secrets of this nature from you, and I feel as if I acted with duplicity in concealing the amount of my admiration for your cousin during my conversations with you; but truly it was only when I was with her that I felt her power. She has that brilliancy which does not permit you to analyze while under its immediate charm, and it is not till you call upon yourself to 'define her position' that you perceive how weak is an influence which passes with the presence of her who speaks. Believe me, she is most dangerous for a life-time devotion, whose gentler qualities increase as you dwell upon them, whose sweet and persuasive excellences act upon you gradually and imperceptibly." 
               Lily's heart beat rapidly, and Du Verger fell on the floor. Ah! Mrs. Clarendon, instead of being engaged in sunning your pickle-jars, and tying down your blackberry jelly, why are you not assisting at this visit? 
               "I am of an excitable temperament, Lily: it has cost me hard study to acquire a cold and cautious exterior. Very often I have forced myself to play a part foreign to my feelings, lest I should excite ridicule by my fervency. I suppose it is for this reason that I frequently err on the other side, and say more than is strictly true in an opposite direction, so as to mislead indifferent listeners as to what is moving me, eager to elude detection and sneers. A habit such as this brings on an unnatural state, which many would call hypocritical. Heaven knows there is nothing I so much admire as truth. I should like to pass my days in such a circle, and with such surroundings that perfect purity and childlike candor should be our watchwords and our principles." 
                
               Lily smiled her commendation, and made room for Clarence nearer to her. 
               "I said just now that I did not regret having made an idiot of myself by laying my fortunes at Miss Purvis's feet; it opened my eyes to my folly. I might have gone on forever fancying her perfection whenever we met, if this plunge into rank stupidity had not brought me up like a shower-bath. I am too impulsive, and think after action. It was an absurd performance-a boyish freak, and, though it worried me at first, now that I have made you my confession, I feel quite indifferent about it. Scold me, Lily, if you choose, but forgive me for my previous want of confidence." 
               Lily's look was all pardon. 
               "I am afraid you were foolish, Clarence. I saw how much you were taken with Angel, and I would have liked to speak to you about it, for I did not think that, even if she were disengaged and cared for you, she was just the person to suit your ideas. You know you are strict in your notions of female propriety, and lecture Nora and me dreadfully. Angel thinks differently from you, and is too strong and proud to change her opinions; but when we were alone, and her name was mentioned, you always spoke with the greatest indifference. I understand it now: you thought I would laugh at your desperate passion;" and Lily's small white teeth shone between her fresh rosy lips as she smiled mischievously. "I must be equally candid, though, Clarence; I knew of this offer." 
               "She told you?" 
               Lily nodded. 
               "Did she abuse me, Lily? What did she say about me?" 
                
               "That is another affair, Clarence. She did not say that our conversation was private, but I don't think she intended me to repeat it. I shall let her know that, after your confidence, I mentioned my acquaintance with the solitary fact. But one thing I can say, she thinks quite as well of you as you do of her." 
               Clarence Tracy shook his finger at Lily's sauciness. 
               "Well, never mind what she says. I dare say she thinks me a very presumptuous youth, and, provided she has not injured me in your opinion, Lily, I would not give a fig-that purple one, for instance (here is an old case in point)-for her decisions. She is very clever, and she is very handsome, and she will be a very splendid New York matron. By-the-way, I will accept your offer now. Peel the fig for me, Lily fair. You will not much longer be able to do me such services." 
               "When do you go to Europe?" she asked, bending over the plate. 
               "I leave for New York next week, and just in time to take the Atlantic steamer." 
               "That is very soon." 
               "The sooner I go, the sooner I shall return," he said, philosophically. 
               "Nora will miss you very much," handing him his figs. Her eyes were full of tears. 
               "Will you not miss me?" Clarence said, putting down the fruit untouched. "Lily, you are only fifteen. I hoped to leave this country without saying what my heart longs to say. I love you, Lily. I don't know when I first loved you. Grave, modest, gentle, tender, you have stolen upon me, and filled a great nook in my heart without a recognized wish on my part to secure you there. I never knew how very dear you were to me till I found myself uttering those mad words to Miss Purvis. I thought I loved you as I cherished Nora-with a brother's unimpassioned attachment; but I discovered, with a pang of self-reproach, that Angelica was a fancy-a miserable outbreak of flattered vanity; you were 'the perfect type of budding womanhood' (he did not put the quotation marks) that I adored with a purer worship. I do not wish to bind you now by any promise-any vow of constancy. I would scorn to make you look upon it as a duty to remember me. I only beg you to accept my vows, without a single promise in return. You are free as air, dearest Lily. If you find that others are more deserving or more pleasing in your eyes, do not hesitate-tell me so-trust me that I shall never advance a claim. I only wish to assure you of my unbounded love-yes, unbounded and unchangeable: a love made up of reverence for your virtues, tenderness for yourself, and a desire for your society. Do you listen to me, Lily?" 
               At every pore she listened, and her little trembling heart fluttered, and her bright ringlets hid her blushing cheek, as she dipped her hands in and out of a finger-bowl, and tried to seem quiet and controlled. Clarence took one of the wet hands in his own, and pressed it gently. 
               "Do I wrong you, Lily? or do you believe me, and do you accept my unasking devotion?" 
               The novice in worldly arts turned her sweet, modest face, with its heavenly eyes and earnest expression, toward her companion. Many an actor (of eminence too) would have paid a high price to secure the recipe for Clarence's eager, impassioned, but respectful air. 
               "I do believe you, Clarence, if the whole world doubted you. I do not know if I really love you enough to authorize accepting so unselfish an offer, for if I consent to consider you bound to me, I ought to make some promise in return. As you say I am very young, I may meet hereafter with some one who pleases me more. I don't think so," she added, with playful tenderness; "but, any way, I am sure that my uncle would object to such a step, and, of course, you had no idea of keeping it secret?" 
               "Of course not," said Clarence, with indignant surprise. 
               "Then let us stay as we are. Both are free to all appearances. We alone will tacitly understand that both are not." 
               Clarence caught the fluttering hand to his lips. He felt already like a sober married man, for he knew Lily's truth and steadfastness were firm as her life. 
               "It is not an engagement," Lily pursued; "far from it. We are only going to be better friends than ever, and when you return from Europe, and I shall be a young lady-Bonjour, Mademoiselle," rising hastily, as the French teacher, with her nerves and her ether, entered. 
               Clarence took leave with a smile of open cordiality and affectionate regard. Lily began her lessons. She did not know one word of them, but she was in a happy state of subdued satisfaction, which rendered her oblivious of Mademoiselle Durong's displeasure. 
               Clarence was true-Clarence had been guilty of only a temporary and fleeting infidelity. He was her friend again, and he had told her, with an eloquence which was music to her prejudiced ears, that he loved her, and had never loved but her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               I DO not intend to follow my heroine minutely through all the remainder of her juvenile days. After this conversation, or explanation with Clarence, and his departure, the time moved on with monstrous calm. It is terribly the fashion nowadays to transport the higher regions of sentimental history, as well as all others, into the bosoms and lives of children. Dickens has a great deal to answer for in inventing Little Nell, for his imitators have since flooded the world with a host of "serious girls," and "prayerful babies," and unnatural infants generally, which will soon induce the readers and admirers of such tales to fancy that, after sixteen years of age, life ends instead of beginning. Little people who can scarcely talk lisp Methodist sermons, and argue with their elders, and show judgment, tact, and energy which invariably throw into contempt the strongest efforts in the same line of all grown men and women. 
               In fact, their labors are superhuman. They bake, wash, and brew-educate, and care for their fathers, mothers, grandmothers, and grandfathers, to the remotest generation, and naturally, after all this, die of extreme old age at fifteen or thereabouts, leaving behind them reputations of unparalleled magnitude. Their conversations are of the deepest theological research, though, for the most part, a little ungrammatical; and, in short, were I capable of portraying such monsters, "which the world ne'er saw," my book would always lack one important reader-myself. I am happy to say that Lily, though a grave, earnest, and, in her way, precocious girl, affords no field for continuous history during the next two years. She studied her lessons and recited them; she kept her things in order; she read improving books, and practiced music and drawing. Clarence wrote to her openly, and told her of his travels, of the places that he visited, and of the people that he knew, with a few rticences. In the course of the following autumn he mentioned having met Angelica, who had gone to winter in Rome. She passed through Paris, and he described their dinner at Vry's with Mr. Langdon, Cecilia, and some other Americans. Lily was very proud of his letters, which came once a month. She kept them in a rosewood box inlaid with mother-of-pearl, and lined throughout with rose-colored, scented satin. As a mark of supreme favor, she read them aloud to her favorites, for Clarence behaved with his usual attention to outward observances, and never wrote one line which could not be repeated to her guardian. He understood Lily as far as that went. She would approve of no clandestine nor veiled words. She meant what she had said. It was only to be tacitly an understanding. Both were free; and Lily's true heart needed no reiterated vows, and could not have been brought to comprehend a doubt existing of her future ratification of the present vague position. Truly, she never thought about the future as regarded Clarence except that he was to come home. She lived in the present childlike contentment; and if Mr. or Mrs. Clarendon had questioned her about Clarence, she would simply have answered, "When I am grown up, Clarence and I will be engaged." 
               Her own letters were frank and girlish. She told him all the news that was likely to be interesting about their juvenile friends; she consulted him about her studies; advised him of her progress in such and such branches, and made her artless comments upon his gay life, and compared it with Willie's. 
               Willie Clarendon was leading a very quiet existence. After a month or two of amusement, he had settled down at one of the German law universities, and was drinking beer, smoking meerschaums, and enjoying slightly prosy views of domestic felicity among the plump frauleins. Clarence meant to join him after a while, and pursue their legal ambitions together, but he was not ready yet. Paris had so many attractions; he was rapidly acquiring the "true Parisian accent" (the attaining of which is apt to cost so much in more ways than paying French masters), and it would be a thousand pities to leave while on the point of perfecting himself in this useful and agreeable language. 
               With these letters, and her unvarying contentment and equable temper, the summer would have passed agreeably even without a change of air or scene; but Alicia's health failed, and they went to Sullivan's Island to give her the benefit of sea-bathing. 
               The girls had not been at this pleasant ocean resort, situated only six miles from the city, at the mouth of the harbor, and open, consequently, to the broad Atlantic, since a few months after the death of Mr. Vere, when Lily's thinness, want of appetite, and visible pining had induced a similar pilgrimage. 
               Mr. Clarendon indulged in a notion that Charleston was quite as cool and far more agreeable than 'the island,' as Charlestonians familiarly call the patriotic spot made sacred by its palmetto fort and Revolutionary glory. He complained of the sand, the glare, the monotony, as if the city boasted of no evils in comparison; and Mrs. Clarendon was too good a wife to have a contrary opinion from her husband. Even if she had delighted in this calm, peaceful retreat, with the great waves ever breaking in glorious, church-like music upon the shore, and a three-mile stretch of beach, wide, firm, and glittering, she would have deemed it her "duty" to encourage an opposite sentiment, and to feel and to express her preference for the dusty, stifling city, which only grows endurable when the sea-breeze, after giving its first blessing to the Island and its inhabitants, wafts a faint semblance of its precious comfort to the fevered expectants in mouldy wooden houses and built-up streets. 
               But Lily and Alicia delighted in the Island. Through the closed Venetian blinds all day came sufficient air to make them willing believers in the excellence of the climate. They lived in a house hired, with the furniture, for the season. A long apartment, surrounded on two sides by piazzas (those unfailing appendages to Southern buildings), which were covered by jalousies, served as sitting-room and dining-room. At one end, a piano, books, work, and flowers proclaimed the "dress-circle;" at the other, a sideboard and round-table, with a fly-brush of peacock's feathers, spoke of meals served and eaten. The mantle-shelf was broad, and held a range of old volumes, with numerous candlesticks, and the tall glass shades under which the lights are protected from the wind. A pantry, and bedroom for George, on the same floor, completed these primitive and unexpensive arrangements, if you except that in the wide entrance-hall, which opened into the sitting-room with a folding-door never closed, there stood a refrigerator, offering iced water and cool bottles of claret to all comers. 
                
               The girls took possession of what they dubbed the "sky parlor," refusing the second floor of bed-rooms, and preferring this attic, which had windows at every point of the compass, and in which apartment they shifted their beds to which ever quarter the wind blew from. 
               Lily would stand for hours, before going to rest, gazing upon the old surf, the white sands, the huge crested billows, the light-house winking in the distance, the indistinct walls of Fort Moultrie, and across the channel, seated as it were upon the waters, the stately pile of Fort Sumter, not yet completed. Alicia would call out, "Lily, do you never mean to go to sleep?" several times, and then my heroine (who was not in the least heroic) would put out her candle (burning in a lantern, which all candles must do, if they burn at all in this positive breeze), and would go to bed, lulled on her pillow by the sound she loved-the ceaseless roll of the mighty king of oceans. 
               And how delightful they thought the drives, rides, or strolls upon the beach at low tide! With no bonnets nor "last-style" mantles-no gloves nor necessary parasols, they sauntered out toward sunset, scarfs tied around their waists or hanging from their arms, in case they should feel chilly, and thick boots protecting their feet from the disagreeable effects of the salt water upon clean stockings. 
               They would meet several young people, bound, like themselves, for a walk upon the beach, and, joining forces, the little regiment of damsels would scamper along, or walk soberly, or run races methodically, just as best pleased them, for "the island" is a spot free from conventional rules, where you are not forced to remember "behavior," nor to conduct yourself with the stiff propriety and full-dress customs of "fashionable watering-places." 
               The walk over, many of them would adjourn to each other's houses, and spend the remainder of the evening in mirthful though quiet enjoyment, with cards, music, and chat, parting at a reasonable hour with the certainty that a fair sky would enable them to resume the following evening the like entertainments. 
               How sweet to recall those thoughtless, early days! I have spent many, many summers upon this calm old island, which has a rooted, settled look like a place which existed before the surrounding country was made. I suppose it is owing to the weather-beaten, antique appearance of the houses, which no paint can do more than temporarily freshen. There are few attempts at gardens or vegetation; but here and there, around some residences, a green patch is cultivated, a pride-of-India gives its sickly, fragrant blossoms to the breeze, or an oleander rises to a superb height in this salt atmosphere, which promotes its growth. Geraniums of the hardier sort flourish in profusion. Within the walls of Fort Moultrie thick hedges of the rose-geranium are seen, and it was a great pleasure for Lily and Alicia at high tide to visit the fort instead of the beach; to walk upon the broad grass-grown ramparts, and to carry home with them afterward whole branches of green, perfumed leaves, to dress their hair and the flower-pots. 
               It was during one of these martial rambles that I first met and knew Lily Vere. I was then young enough to believe in perfection, and to my eyes Lily was perfect. The matured dignity of her manner, and the entire simplicity and unsophistication of her feelings and conversation, struck me as something quite wonderful and very lovable. 
                
               We became sociable and mutually pleased. I received an impression of her beautiful character which has never left me, and this is the reason why I have undertaken to write her little story. A good many of the details which I have already narrated I listened to from her own lips, but the most part I have sought out and learned from others, for I saw Lily Vere but seldom after this summer, which we spent together so joyously and so free from care on Sullivan's Island. My pathway through life has been very obscure, and we were not likely to meet in the brilliant, sunny, well-beaten high road which was her track. 
               She was very fond of talking to me of her father (when we grew well acquainted), and of her mother dying when she was born, and which sad event had certainly impaired her father's health. She seemed never to think of her acres, her bank stock, her houses, and her general independence, except as a means by which she could always keep her friends together. 
               "There are the Jenningses," she would say; "when I am twenty-one, or if I marry before that"-and I did not then understand the little blush and the momentary droop of the well-opened but modest blue eye-"if I marry before that, I will not hear of their teaching and wearying themselves with governess work, leaving us all for distant homes. I know that I am rich, and where is the use of riches if it does not enable you to surround yourself with those whom you love. What is there that money will buy or can procure to equal the pleasure of assisting those whom you have known and cared for all your days?" 
               There was no ostentation in this; it was too sincere; and having discovered that, by family reverses, these early companions were to be sent upon the world as teachers, she had taken the resolution to assist them, never mentioning it to her guardian, lest he should oppose it; but I learned afterward that he accidentally discovered her plans that very year, and carried them at once into effect. An annuity was settled upon both Ella and Kate, which they enjoy until this day. 
               To return to the girls: they bathed daily in the sea, and Alicia recovered her color and appetite, so that Mr. Clarendon began to respect the Island, if he did not love it as an abiding-place. 
               At the eastern end, where but half a dozen houses are built, there stand tall sand-hills, the most glorious spots for romps. A little creeping vine, with dusky purple flowers, covers the miniature valleys between these hills like a stiff carpet of prim pattern, and here and there spring up little branches like vegetable coral, with hard sprays of a brilliant red, and minute white blossoms. On the summits grow the wild oats and wild fern, which wave their yellow ears, and contrast with the dark masses of the wild myrtle clustering in the depths beyond; but among these last it is not very safe to enter after nightfall. They are unhealthy, damp, and give unfailing promise of fever and chills, arising from the malaria of the "back creek." 
               No such cautions are necessary a few yards in front, amid the hills and facing the ocean. Here Lily and her companions would amuse themselves with games of all sorts, shut out from observation by the intervening heights of glistening sand. The boys of the party, commanded by George Clarendon, would bring from the carriages in waiting jugs of lemonade, and baskets of ice and cakes. They would spread their pastoral refreshment upon those hard, unlife-like vines, and laugh, and joke, and enjoy their youth and liberty with a blue sky above them, richer than satin flutings, and streaks of vermilion shooting up from the western horizon, bidding them "good-night" in the sun's name. 
               Then Mr. Clarendon would ride up on his famous bay mare, "Lady Bessy," and inspect the company; sometimes Burleigh would be with him (having been forgotten at home, or left purposely), and he would show his indignation for the neglect by refusing, at first, to notice any of them, standing close at "Lady Bessy's" heels, and turning away superbly from confectionary offers; but, relenting presently, he would suffer Lily to pat him and to feed him, expressing his disapprobation of her cruelty or carelessness by one of those grave, concentrated nods which had won him his name. 
               Again I exclaim, happy, thoughtless days! 
               In October the Clarendons moved to the city, and the winter was spent in uninterrupted calm, but the following spring brought a great change. Instead of going into the country for the month of April, they were to sail for New York early in June, and Mrs. Clarendon could not sanely contemplate additional packings-up; besides, for a five months' absence, she had a world of preparations to make. It was years since she had gone farther north than the Santee River Plantation, and it is a wonder that the good lady did not break out into open rebellion; but Mr. Clarendon had been pestered with questions as to the wisdom of allowing his daughter and his ward to grow up without fashionable accomplishments from better masters than Charleston afforded. "Was it right," some officious individuals suggested, "that such an heiress as Miss Vere should not have advantages as great as the daughters of other Southern gentlemen enjoyed?" 
               Mr. Clarendon thought it over, and decided that the girls should go to a Northern boarding-school for a year or two, but it was not so easy to fix upon the precise school. Each young lady who had been "finished" beyond Mason and Dixon's line had her especial scholastic bower, which she cried up as a very fount of learning and propriety; so Mr. Clarendon determined that he would go and judge for himself, place them wherever his choice fell, and reside in their vicinity afterward for a little while, to watch the system, and to see if it answered. 
               Mrs. Clarendon groaned and labored, put a double quantity of pepper and camphor into carpets and woolen clothes, as if she knew that the moths would be tempted to extra ravages during her absence, and kept the family on a short allowance of spoons and forks for a week before her departure, because every article of plate was sent betimes to the safest bank. 
               At length they were ready, and the luggage was something overpowering to behold. The dear lady suffered under the idea that she could procure nothing so good in Yankee-land as what was purchasable in Charleston, so that one huge trunk held medicines, old linen in case of fractures, superfine tea, some best brandy, a "triflle" of old Port wine, ditto of Madeira, and a general collection of odds and ends, which, had she been going to Europe instead of to New York, would have caused the party much detention and suspicion at the custom house, or "duane," as bearers of unaccountably strange articles. 
               Mr. Clarendon, as was his wont, laughed, and asked "my dear" if she would not carry some more boxes; and, in fact, "as the transportation of boxes was more convenient than the handing about of young ladies, would she object to putting up Lily and Alicia in long French trunks, with iron bands and a few air-holes?" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               NEW YORK was a great surprise and a terrible trial to "the daughter of Carolina," with her fixed ideas and her objection to novelties. 
               The noise, bustle, and confusion only amused and excited the girls, who, finding Mrs. Clarendon positively averse to venturing out, but resigned that they should go, with George as their chaperon, shopping and sightseeing, would walk off daily to Stewart's and Beck's, and buy loads of "pretty things." 
               It must be confessed that their tastes were not strictly correct, and Angelica would have held up her hands in just indignation had she seen them laying in their supplies. Fortunately, it was not the season for worsteds, or, with the unfailing mistake of Charleston habits, they would certainly have paid high prices for "full-dress" gowns of bright-patterned mousselines, only suitable for robes de chambre. 
               I remember once feeling my cheeks quite in a glow while standing by Stewart's counter, waiting until my unobtrusive appearance should awaken the attention of a dashing clerk. A lady, who was purchasing a silk of the richest lustre, turned over a pile of gaudy mousselines, rather fine in texture, at my elbow. 
               "Pray," said she, tossing her little nose contemptuously, "who buys all these stuffs?" 
               "South Carolina ladies, madam," announced the clerk, bowing; "they prefer this style for walking and visiting;" and he grinned. 
                
               I recalled the streets of my native place, and felt the truth of the announcement. 
               This reminds me of Mrs. Clarendon's adventure in shopping. Growing tired, at last, of the little chamber, eight feet by ten, in which she was drearily knitting away her time, she bethought herself that she would purchase a new breakfast set of china, and that was the commencement of her New York walks. 
               The young ladies, grown familiar with Broadway, undertook to conduct her safely, and safely she was deposited in one of the great China emporiums, dazzled by the brilliancy, and very fearful of being cheated. 
               "Some breakfast sets-tea and coffee cups?" she inquired. 
               Half a dozen cups were rattled down before her, and the active salesman was preparing to bring others, when she hurriedly said, "Never mind to get any more; just let me know the price of these first; I am only looking about before buying." But the shopman continued to pile up plates, to name prices, to dive after others, to draw forward slop-bowls, and to worry his customer dreadfully. He was so polite. 
               "Never mind," she repeated; "I can see them up there. I may not buy these, after all. I hate to give you so much trouble, for I am not sure that I shall buy." 
               The "young man" turned around and looked lazily at her. He laid aside his springy, cat-like motions, and said, with calm dignity, 
               "I am put here, ma'am, to show these goods. It does not make the least difference to me whether you buy or not. I receive my salary, just the same, if not a purchaser comes into this store during the entire day;" and then resuming his "store" manner, the accomplished and philosophical salesman placed a new stock of porcelain under the good lady's nose, who flurriedly sounded it with her knuckles, while Lily and Alicia retired a few steps, and were convulsed with laughter. 
               Mr. Clarendon inquired about schools; had a preference for Madame Chegaray, discussed Madame Binsse, thought of Madame Canda, and, while making up his mind, discovered that it was so warm it would be better to go to Saratoga; then Newport offered inducements; but Niagara and Canada carried the day. 
               They traveled in every direction, enjoyed themselves very much (even Mrs. Clarendon grew a little reconciled), and, meeting some friends now settled in Philadelphia, they came to the conclusion that the city of straight streets and very clean bricks was the favored spot for female education. 
               It must not be supposed, meanwhile, that Miss Vere and Miss Clarendon, though very pretty young girls, created, like all heroines of novels every where, and like all other young Charleston beauties who travel North, an immense and surprising sensation. The fact is, that among the curious and incomprehensible circumstances which make up that hash "common gossip," nothing knocks one over with more unerring amazement than the belleship of my ordinary acquaintances. 
               A flock of creditable enough girls sail for New York to pass a summer, no one suspecting (unless they judge from foregone conclusions in other cases) that they are going to take the land by force of-fascination, but the very first advices after their departure speak of their "stunning" effect upon the hitherto benighted inhabitants. They are overwhelmed with attentions; they walk the streets with a tail of followers like a Highland chief, and they come home pursued by rumors mors-I must say seldom by the causes of these rumors. 
               These stupendous reputations for agreeability and corresponding charms, which yet, to our eyes, bring them back not different from when they left, always call to my mind an anecdote of a little lady who was describing a visit she had paid in a distant part of the country. 
               "Oh!" she wound up, "I was such a belle!" 
               "My dear," said her attentive listener, "why did you ever come back?" 
               Lily was often admired in a quiet way, and, had she kept her ears open to every sound, she would have heard her own praises not unfrequently. Alicia's pretty, innocent look, and her dark-brown eyes, likewise attracted attention, but there was no rush made to know them, and they passed many evenings seated side by side in various ball-rooms, at various hotels and watering-places, enjoying the sight, without any partners to take them on the floor, unless they had danced alternately with George. 
               In fact, Mr. Clarendon was much to blame; he ought to have held his head higher, sniffed the air with disgust, refused every thing on the public tables, talked a great deal of "South Carolina," and given the world to understand that he "was a man, sir, not used to associating with common people, and of a fortune which enabled him to command the best, and to scorn even the second best." 
               On the contrary, Mr. Clarendon kept very dark about himself and his family; was open to advances from respectable-looking persons; avoided snobs; uttered no boasts of his pretensions, and didn't seem to despise any body. They made a few new acquaintances ances; and, though the novelty of the thing pleased them, the girls were sure that this was not the very most delightful summer they could spend, and that "traveling at the North" in a humdrum way, and associating principally with Charlestonians, would not make a lively trip, after you had once performed it; and that they must be singularly devoid of capabilities for pleasing strangers, since their career had not in the least corresponded with the triumphal march which Jane Griffiths, and Susan Fuller, and other young ladies had made through the Northern watering-places. 
               In Philadelphia they came to a decided halt, and the 1st of September found them inmates of an admirable Pensionnat de Demoiselles, where, after Mr. and Mrs. Clarendon had, from a neighboring boarding-house, kept watch over them during six weeks, they were installed positively for a year at least. 
               The "rules and regulations" for their comfort and instruction were based on liberal and enlightened views. They were not forced to rise before daylight; they did not perform their ablutions in tin basins, twenty at a time, with their dresses "hooked up," and their shoes and stockings already drawn on, trusting to a Saturday or Friday night's general wash to bring them up, for Sunday only, all clean; they were not starved at any meal, nor served with ill-made dishes; in a word, they were treated like creatures who a few months later were to appear as modest and refined women; and, surely, a rgime such as I have hinted at could never, by itself, produce this result. 
               I do not think that I am exaggerating when I give this picture of what some schools for young ladies were ten years ago, but it is to be hoped that the march of civilization has destroyed such singular methods ods of cultivating feminine instincts; for it was never necessary, in educating young girls, to consider their physical condition as a matter of little consequence, while their mental culture was taxed to the utmost. 
               At this rare and model school the youthful Charlestonians made much progress, and profited by their advantages. 
               They did not become miracles of accomplishments, but they improved in every respect; wrote home that they were quite happy, and did not pine unnecessarily for the arrival of Alicia's seventeenth birth-day, which, arriving in the following autumn, was to be the signal of their release from school thralldom, and their entrance into a state of young ladyhood. Lily was seventeen in April, and her cousin Angelica, who returned soon after from abroad, sent her a birth-day gift, and a polite invitation to both to spend their summer vacation with her-partly at her beautiful country-seat on the Hudson, and partly at Saratoga, where she was going to exhibit her Paris finery while fresh from its enticing-looking and every-thing-promising white cartons. 
               They actually declined the tempting offer, though Alicia was sorely inclined to forget her promise to her father, who had urged that they should remain quietly at school, and continue their lessons, if possible, during their vacation; but Lily was firm, and studied diligently. 
               Three hours a day her fresh, young voice, or her pretty, graceful touch was heard at her piano. She was no great musician, but she had taste, if not execution; sang with sweetness and correctness, though her notes were few, and was, in short, one of those unpretending performers to whom one can listen without an hour's praying and prelude. 
                
               Alicia did not sing, but she played brilliantly, and read music fluently; was rather indifferent about it, and lacked that love of the art which, though restricted from want of genius, gave interest to Lily's playing. 
               "I know why you plod over your music in that untiring way," Alicia said, one warm afternoon toward the close of the vacations, when the two sat together in the back parlor at Madame --'s, Lily patiently deciphering a difficult passage in Thalberg, and Alicia lolling back in the easiest chair she could find, fanning continuously with a lazy motion, and too enervated to look into the Italian book she held in her other hand. 
               "Why?" asked Lily, pausing, and turning round for a second, with her finger raised over the next note. 
               "Because Clarence Tracy has chosen to go mad at Heidelberg over the trombone, or ophicleide, or Jew's-harp, or Heaven knows what, and you intend to perfect yourself so as to perform duets with him." 
               "Nonsense!" said Lily, bringing down the rose-leaf finger upon the unoffending key with sudden force; "instead of talking such folly, help me read this, Alice, dear." 
               "It is so very warm!" said Alicia, yawning; "and if it had not been for you, we should have gone to Angelica, and been comfortable at Arcadia, or gay at Saratoga now. Papa would never have refused, and mamma never cares what we do, if only we keep well." 
               "But, my dear, we should have lost so much time! Next summer we can accept Angel's offer, and, after a winter's campaign at home, we shall be better able to enjoy very gay society. Think how much we can study during the next few weeks!" 
               "What is the use of study?" asked Alicia. "Somehow every one marries so early, and then you give up music and every thing. Look at all the women we know at home. They are taught French, music, drawing, 'geography and the use of the globe,' and as soon as they marry, they shut the piano, never open a French book, give their paints away, and might a great deal better have had all the money spent on these accomplishments put in the Savings' Bank instead. It is a great waste of time and dollars to study." 
               "Oh, Alicia!" exclaimed Lily; then she added, "Do you intend to marry?" 
               "I don't intend to be an old maid," said Alicia, bluntly. 
               "Why not?" 
               "Why not?" said Alicia, imitating Lily's soft voice; "because there is a prejudice in favor of marriage. There is no one I intend at this present moment to honor with my hand, but I have no doubt there is somebody waiting somewhere who is destined to impress me favorably, and to whom I shall one day say, 'Ask papa.'" 
               "Well, I can not understand," said Lily, musingly, "that one should marry any body except a person whom you have known a long while; and marriage in the abstract-just to think that you will probably marry, no one in particular occurring to you-seems so queer." 
               "Pshaw!" ejaculated Alicia, "you have the most extraordinary notions. I am sure I don't care to marry. It must be a dull business-almost as dull as these wearisome days, which appear to grow longer instead of shorter. Let us-" She stopped suddenly. A peculiar low whistle sounded beneath the window of the front parlor, and came faintly to her ear. 
               She sprang up, and was about to enter the next room, which was darker than the one in which they sat, but, changing her mind, she came toward the piano, and, pushing Lily gently aside, said, 
               "If you will practice forever, let me help you with this, and then we can go and take a walk afterward, if Madame will allow us." 
               She struck a few bars rapidly. 
               "Why, Lily, what a fuss about nothing! I declare it is as easy as this;" and she played "Fly not yet-'tis just the hour," and then broke into "Whistle and I'll come to you, my lad," touching the keys with a skillful hand. 
               As she paused again, again the low whistle sounded, and this time Lily heard it too. 
               "Oh stop, Alicia! Some passer-by is attracted by your brilliant performance, and is presuming to answer it. Keep to my piece." 
               "I tell you what, my love," answered Alicia, striking a few notes at random, "if you will leave this tiresome old music till to-morrow morning, and go to walk with me now, I will teach you every line of it then. The sun is nearly down; I wish some things at Hauel's, and, if you will ask Madame's permission, and promise in my name that I will be as 'sage' as yourself, she will allow us to go out together." 
               Lily was not very loth, so they proceeded to make the request, which Madame granted, adding to Miss Clarendon, 
               "Je te conseille, ma fille, de suivre l'exemple de ma chre Lily. Promenez-toi en demoiselle bien leve, et ne regardez point les flaneurs." 
               Oh, Madame!" exclaimed her pupil, casting down her pretty brown eyes, and speaking in French good enough to please and to mollify her instructress, "what makes you think that I look at people in the street?" 
                
               Madame nodded her head sagaciously. "My eyes see every thing, though I do wear spectacles, chre enfant. And where are those same lunettes?" she added, turning round in all directions, while Lily suggested "her pocket," which, after due search, did produce the articles in question, though Madame persisted that they were not there, and had overturned every book and paper on the table beside her before she would consent to follow Lily's advice. "Les voila!" she exclaimed, placing them on her well-defined nose, and fixing her penetrating, handsome, coffee-colored eyes on Alicia, while she patted the young lady's smooth-braided hair. "You like to see who is looking at you, ma chre Alice. I do not need my spectacles to find that out;" and her mind reverting to her recent hunt, she ejaculated, "Que Dieu vous prserve la ve, mes enfants," and dismissed them with a kiss apiece. 
               The girls occupied a room together, and thither they now flew to make their toilets. Alicia ran first to the window, and peeped over the blinds into the street. Apparently what she saw pleased her, for a smile was dancing all over her face as she selected her prettiest dress, and laid out her most becoming bonnet and mantle. 
               "Pray, Lily, make haste," she said several times, and at last they were both ready. 
               "Why are you so impatient?" inquired Lily. 
               "It is late," answered Miss Clarendon. "I wish to buy several things, and Madame does not let us go out alone so often that we need waste the few hours that we have." 
               "And if she thinks that you look at young gentlemen," remarked Lily, smiling mischievously, "adieu to future walks, unless we go with the whole troop of our schoolmates when les classes are again in full operation." They opened the street door as Lily said this, and Alicia, after one quick glance in the opposite direction, called her companion's attention to the block of houses facing them. 
               "Did you know," she inquired, "that formerly these houses were called 'Carolina Row?' such numbers of our country people occupied and owned them." 
               Talking of home and home concerns, they pursued their way and entered Chestnut Street, Lily's unsuspicious mind never imagining that the sauntering walk of a tall, handsome man, who was loftily progressing on the other side of the street, had any connection with their promenade. 
               Alicia was very demure and very proper. She spoke in a low tone, kept her eyes in their legitimate direction, and behaved in a way to have perfectly reassured Madame's fears. 
               At the perfumer's they stopped, and Alicia produced a list a quarter of a yard in length. She wanted pomade, eau lustrale, hair-pins, perfumes, soaps-you would have supposed that both fire and water had aided to sweep away and destroy the whole contents of her dressing-box with one storm. 
               The pretty little Frenchified shopwoman, with graceful empressement, produced samples of the first article, and Alicia commenced her selection. 
               Every pot of pomade was turned, twisted, examined, smelt. Alicia's dainty kid glove first approached the surface of the smooth, perfumed moell de buf, then she drew off the delicate gant de Paris, and with the ends of her small taper fingers felt the grain of the blessed unctuous compound destined to assist in the shining structure of her dark tresses. 
                
               At this instant a manly step sounded beside them, and a deep grave voice said, 
               "Some pomade?" 
               Lily turned almost involuntarily, and was struck with the beauty and stature of the new-comer; but Alicia called upon her to decide "which jar was prettiest, since all were equally good." 
               
                  She had not looked at the stranger, who now was obliged to join them at the same counter, and who was objecting to the strong fragrance of the article which another and still prettier grisette offered him. 
               "Give me some  la vanille blanche," he said; "such violent perfumes are so vulgar!" 
               The well-bred Frenchwoman glanced hastily at the elegant young lady who had just laid aside a cut-glass jar of the condemned "fleur d'orange," and, as if accidentally, the gentleman looked in the same direction. 
               With a faint exclamation of surprise, he removed his hat, and bowing profoundly, a movement which he executed with peculiar grace and extraordinary respect, said, 
               "Miss Clarendon, I believe?" 
               Alicia returned his bow with a momentary expression of uncertainty, and then smiling as if a gleam of recollection had darted through her mind, 
               "I beg your pardon; I did not at first recognize you." 
               Lily looked and felt surprise. She touched Alicia's arm with a warning pressure. 
               "Are you alone?" asked the gentleman. 
               "No," answered Alicia; "my friend, I may almost say, my sister, Miss Vere, is with me. Lily," turning round, "allow me to introduce Mr. Barclay." 
               Once more the hat was removed from the stately brow, and short, black, wavy hair, and the tall, haughty figure bent itself in grave courtesy. 
               He was very handsome-what is called "a splendid-looking man"-large and powerfully made, with well-proportioned hands and feet; his eyes were dark and expressive, but the general expression was one which those men whom he eclipsed, and those women whom he neglected, pronounced "disagreeable." On the contrary, those ladies whom he "adored" considered the eyes irresistible, and would allow them no rival but his mouth, which was of a beautiful but voluptuous cut. His teeth were not of a dead white, but had that slight, unbroken sallow tinge, which, like certain skins and colors, lights up at night to a dazzling whiteness; while his mustache looked like floss silk dipped in India ink, admirably suiting the bronzed shade of his smooth cheek. 
               The peculiarity of his appearance was a certain nameless dgag, don't-care-a-straw carriage, which seemed to be the foundation on which he had built the loftiest, most dignified, and yet most insolent manner. Looking at him, you were at a loss to decide whether the first or the last were his natural self-whether he was born and educated for a handsome rowdy, and overlaid it with this assumption of haughtiness, or whether he had chosen on his stately basis to graft these opposite qualities. 
               In a word, if you liked him, you could find a thousand charms in his appearance, and if you chanced to dislike him, you could turn every beauty into disparagement. 
               Before her acquaintance had fully accomplished his elaborately respectful bow, which was far from being a mocking one, but which really seemed the expression of his deep consideration for "the sex," and his personal conviction of the effect that he was making by showing this respect, Alicia had found time to whisper to Lily, "I'll tell you about him presently." 
               But Harry Barclay had no idea of allowing those earnest blue eyes to wonder any more, or to permit that calm reasoning power which he (a good judge of character from countenance) saw lay under her feminine exterior to decide for itself about this meeting; so he remarked to Lily, 
               "I have not had this happiness before, Miss Vere. I met Miss Clarendon last June at a small tea-drinking, given, I think, to both of you, but from which indisposition prevented your assisting." 
               "Don't you remember Mrs. Elliott's invitation, dear?" put in Alicia; "such a nice party!" 
               "Yes, perfectly," said Lily, smiling; "but I think you told me then that it was rather dull." 
               "Oh! things improve as you look back upon them," said Harry Barclay. "I trust that I do not interfere with your shopping," he added, with sudden recollection; "but, if I might be permitted to join you in your walk, and see you safely home afterward, I should feel very proud of the honor. I do not know if Madame -- allows such attentions, but Mrs. Elliott will be answerable to her for my good behavior and my trustworthy qualities." 
               "Mrs. Elliott is not in town," said Lily, gravely disapproving. 
               "I beg your pardon; she returned from Saratoga a week ago. I had the pleasure of meeting her in New York, and we reached Philadelphia in company." 
               "Oh yes, Lily," said Alicia, coaxingly, in a low tone; "where is the harm?" 
                
               Lily could not exactly say where, but she yielded against her better judgment, remarking gently, 
               "It is getting late." 
               "Help me, then," said Alicia, tearing off the half of her paper list, and thrusting it into Miss Vere's hand; "choose those for me while I am getting these." And her next purchase required a move to the opposite counter, leaving Lily where she was. 
               "So you have come back at last!" were Miss Alicia's first words, in a reproachful tone, to her tall "acquaintance," who strode leisurely after her, and stood looking down du haut de sa grandeur upon the pretty, pettish little girl, whose small and graceful figure did not reach his elbow. 
               "At last!" echoed Mr. Barclay; "have you wished to see me sooner?" 
               A tender look from the pensionnaire, whom Madame had suspected of such accomplishments, was her only answer. Then she said, 
               "I staid here all summer, thinking that you would soon return from Virginia with your health quite restored, otherwise I should never have consented to give up Mrs. Langdon's invitation-I don't like this soap: let me see some more-Matilda Browne gave me your message yesterday, and by your whistle under the window and presence now, I suppose she gave you my note in return?" 
               "She did, and cross enough it was too. What a little vixen you are! But the winding up was better." 
               "Did you destroy it?" asked Alicia, eagerly, hoping to hear "No." 
               "Certainly; I tore it up, and threw the scraps into one of those horrid American inventions for a people who use tobacco in all shapes." 
                
               Every fibre in Alicia's lady-like organization revolted against such a receptacle for the ashes of an almost billet-doux, and Master Harry Barclay was never nearer the loss of a conquest than at that moment; but jealousy saved him. 
               "What a lovely creature Miss Vere is!" he went on, noticing Alicia's darkening brow. "She looks so sweet-tempered!" 
               "Have you come here to talk about Lily's beauty?" 
               "No, I have come to admire anew Alicia's beauty," said Mr. Barclay, imitating her defiant, spoiled-child tone. "What are you angry about? You are the most difficult creature to please! Here I have occupied two hours of this warm afternoon, first waiting under the windows of Madame --'s select pensionnat de demoiselles, running the risk of losing my character, and passing for a dissipated youth, who flirts with budding school-girls; then sitting in the apothecary's shop at the corner, drinking minute glasses of soda-water (which might well have served as 'minute guns' of distress from a ship fast sinking in despair), while uncertain whether to go or stay-whether you were making a toilet of unexampled freshness, or whether Madame was inexorable, and you never meant to come at all! After all this, you receive me with a frown that makes a great ridge down your forehead, and frightens that poor shop-woman into fits." 
               Alicia smiled relentingly, and, seeing Lily approaching, began diligently to select her purchases, while Harry stooped to examine some trinket within the counter, and murmured close in the small, curved ear, tucked away in her white chip bonnet, "This is so like you! We meet for half an hour, and you take twenty-five minutes to get through your first scold." 
                
               "Come, Alicia," said Lily, her hands full of small packages; and in a short time the whole list was gone through, the address given, and the party left Hauel's, Mademoiselle Cleste saying to Mademoiselle Alphonsine as they went out, 
               "Voil M. Barclay lanc une autre fois! Elle est jolie cette petite dernire." 
               Lily felt very uncomfortable. She knew that Madame's rules were strict, and yet how could she make up her mind to tell this stalwart, lazy, haughty, handsome gentleman, who walked beside them, that he must go, and thereby deeply anger Alicia, who set no bounds upon her wrath when thwarted? 
               Mr. Barclay proposed a sorbet at Parkinson's, but Lily steadily refused. 
               "Then I shall go alone, Lily," said Alicia, decidedly. "We are not babies. This is vacation too. You know that if we were not under Madame's care, we could go and eat as many ices as we chose, with a regiment of young dragoons to escort us. Although we are still at school, we are old enough to know what is in itself right and proper, and to guide our actions accordingly. Do you think that ice cream is a sin?" 
               The result was, that Lily found herself at Parkinson's, and very silently swallowed her sorbet; but Mr. Barclay was so perfectly well-bred, so much at his ease, so respectful, so deferential, and, at the same time, so agreeable, that she found herself enjoying his society, and forgetting the reproofs awaiting them at home. 
               At the corner of the street next to Madame's establishment, Miss Clarendon paused and dismissed their escort, who bowed and withdrew, though Lily longed to catch him by the skirts of his coat, and to insist upon his taking them to the door. This clandestine parting augured badly for a full confession to Madame, and, sure enough, Alicia began, so soon as they resumed their walk, 
               "Now, my dearest Lily, you do not intend to mention Harry Barclay to Madame?" 
               "Indeed I do." 
               "You are, without exception," exclaimed Alicia, coloring violently, "the most strait-laced, tiresome girl! Pray tell me, did we not, in Charleston, and during our travels last summer, walk constantly with young men? and did we not, two years ago, on Sullivan's Island, run races, and stroll about forever with dozens of youths? That was not thought wrong, why should this be?" 
               "It was not forbidden by those in authority over us," said Lily, gently. "We never concealed it, which proved that there was nothing hurtful in so doing. Depend upon it, my dear Alicia, our own feelings guide us more unerringly in all cases than the reiterated commands and injunctions of our protectors and guardians-our parents, if we have any. From childhood up, we can almost always be sure that those of our actions which we would hide from the knowledge of our elders are tinctured in a more or less degree with impropriety. Sometimes we perform a good deed of which we do not boast, but we would not fear to have it known." 
               "Do join the Quakers, and 'let the Spirit move you' frequently to exhort," said Miss Clarendon, contemptuously. "How you do prose!" 
               "Dearest Alice!" exclaimed Lily, using her pet name for her guardian's daughter, and throwing her arms about her, for they had now reached home and were safe in their own little apartment, "dearest Alice ice, listen to me. I am not suspicious, I trust, but I am not utterly blind and foolish. At first I thought this afternoon that this meeting was accidental, but too great an intimacy exists between this gentleman and yourself for me to believe that you have only seen him once before, and that at a formal evening party. Your whispers at the opposite counter, the significant smiles exchanged between those two Frenchwomen, and a certain air on both sides, convince me that you have entered into a foolish flirtation, in which you can but gain much discredit. Who is this Mr. Harry Barclay? and where have you seen and learned to know him?" 
               Alicia pouted, shook off Lily's embrace, and trotted her foot angrily. 
               "I do not wish to force your confidence, my darling, nor bride you into being candid with me; but if you will explain this affair, we may consult about it, and probably we can decide to bring it to a more respectable conclusion, without waking Madame's ire." 
               Still the little Spanishly perfect foot wearied itself, and the proud owner remained obstinately silent. Alicia Clarendon was inclined to sulkiness, and a fit of this most unendurable temperament was upon her. But not Annot Lyle's magic instrument had greater power over the moody Highland chief, or that more ancient harpist, David, over the fretted soul of his king and predecessor, than Lily Vere's sweet and soothing accents over those who listened. There was such a spirit of truth, gentleness, suavity, persuasion in her low, heart-seeking voice. 
               Her words were like those of an old ballad, sung to an old melody, remembered since the day you lay upon your mother's knees. Simple words-not eloquent, not poetic, but stirring your inward nature, and awakening your best and least earthly sentiments. 
               "You would not quarrel with me for a stranger, dear Alice, and you do not fancy that I wish to be unkind or tyrannical. I am the elder, you know, and ought to assist you to think. It is thoughtlessness and girlish vanity which has led you on. Tell me about it or not, as you choose. I shall say no more; and, unless you were to repeat this walk, I shall never mention it. If uncle were to discover that you had been talked about for a Mr. Barclay, he would surely decide that I had ill repaid him for his kindness to myself. Not that I consider my own feelings, except as regards you. I could not bear that my darling Alice should lose her own self-respect, which she would do by permitting these clandestine attentions. In a little while you will be a 'young lady,' and ready to receive the open and undisguised homage of twenty Mr. Barclays. Now it is over, and we are friends again, querida mia." 
               The loving, tender arms stole once more around Alicia's averted neck, and Lily's pure, innocent lips kissed her friend on cheek and brow. Alicia was subdued. She played a second with the ribbons of her bonnet, and then, hastily untying them, and tossing the airy perfection upon her bed, she caught Lily's hand, who had moved away, and said, "Come here, snow-bird, and I will tell you all about it." 
               Miss Vere gladly obeyed; and Alicia, slowly rolling and unrolling one of Lily's long ringlets about her fore-finger as she spoke, continued: 
               "You know Mrs. Elliott, remembering mamma's kindness to her at Niagara last year, asked us to tea in June, just before she went away, and you could not go. 
                
               You had a headache, and I accepted alone. It was rather dull work at first, just as I told you. The parlors were so dark you could scarcely see your hand; for, after the tea-table was removed, they turned down the gas to a little red bead, so that the rooms might be the cooler for it, and one groped about in a gloomy kind of twilight, with no music, nor cards, nor any thing. The rest of the company did not seem to find it stupid, however, for every body knew every body, and they sat about in corners, or strolled into the garden, and laughed and talked as merrily as possible, while the fans fluttered as if it were a Tertullia of West Indian beauties. Mrs. Elliott talked to me about the school and the girls, and bored me to death, as if I had not enough of them at home. At last she was called off, and I sat quite forlorn till Miss Elliott came to do a little propriety too, and she asked me about the school and the girls all over again, precisely as her mother had done. What makes people who invite unhappy tenants of pensionnats always drive at them about their 'studies' and their 'schoolmates?'" 
               "What other topic can they choose?" suggested Lily, smiling. 
               "Very true. Well, when Miss Elliott got upon music-teachers, you may imagine how weary I was of the business from my eagerly launching out into praise of Rhinehart, and actually consenting to show what proficiency I had made rather than continue in this agreeable Inquisition-victim chair. So I sat down to the piano, and performed a series of things, and, getting sentimental, I played a few of your languishing favorites, feeling emboldened by the 'darkness visible' around me. When I stopped, Mrs. Elliott brought up a freshly-arrived gentleman and introduced him. I could only distinguish a great, tall creature, who bowed profoundly, and took a place beside me." 
               Alicia gave a tug at the golden curl, and Lily, quietly disengaging her belle chevelure, said, 
               "Mr. Harry Barclay?" 
               "Just so. He knew Matilda Browne, and she had mentioned me to him. He began a very flirty conversation, though he does not pay compliments except by his manner and look. I suppose I encouraged him, for he kept his seat during the remainder of the evening, except when we took a turn in the garden, where he managed, by the moonbeams, to find out that I was not ill-looking, and where I discovered that he was very handsome. He is handsome, isn't he, Lily?" 
               "Y-e-s," answered Lily, musingly and doubtfully. 
               "Oh! I know he has not sharp eyes, and a sallow skin, with thin lips; nor is he slight and slender," said Alicia, laughing, for that was Clarence Tracy's signalement. Lily shook her head, and Alicia went on. 
               "Several times Mrs. Elliott looked as if she wished to break up the conference, but I had no idea of 'resuming my studies' again, and Mr. Barclay stood firm, and the evening would come to an end, and the carriage brought me home. The next Monday (this was on Friday evening) Matilda handed me a rose, with some foolish message from Mr. Barclay, who had been paying a visit to her sister; and after that, when I got leave once to walk with her, and on the two occasions when I dined at the Brownes, Mr. Barclay was there. You know you do not like Matilda, and you always refused their invitations; and, I must confess-" 
               "That you never pressed me to accept them." Alicia laughed. 
               "Some body must have told Madame about him, for she is so watchful and strict, she will not let me dine any more with Matilda, and looked so narrowly at her yesterday when she came to see me. Now that is all, Lily." 
               "A bad business, my dear;" and Lily looked grave. "I fear Mr. Harry Barclay is a fortune-hunter, and these underbred Brownes his aiders and abettors. He takes advantage of your youth and inexperience; and, if he finds that you have wealth to match your beauty, he will try to secure his prize. If not, it is only a school-girl flirtation." 
               Alicia was scornfully indignant. 
               "No, indeed. He may be a flirt, but he is not a fortune-hunter." 
               "Very well, darling, as you will," said wise Lily, pressing the matter no farther, but determined to be very careful of Alicia for the future. "Let us go and show ourselves to Madame, tell her that we have eaten an ice, consequently do not mind losing our tea, and have been at home half an hour." 
               But Madame, with her usual kind thoughtfulness, had kept their evening meal spread for them in the dining-room, apologizing to herself, as she always did for extra spoiling, that it was holiday-time, never considering that, had it been during any other portion of the year, she would have acted in the like manner, urging that well-worked school-girls should be plentifully fed. For, strict and positive as she was, never did there beat a kinder or a more judicious heart than in the bosom of Madame --. 
               While drinking her cup of milk, cooled with a huge lump of ice, Alicia washed down any pangs of self-reproach which lingered about her at her shortened and partial confession. Not one word had she said of her note, of the signal beneath the window, of the nearly lover-like terms on which they stood. 
               Many persons will doubt the existence of such consummate hypocrisy and finished coquetry in one so young, brought up so quietly; a few will decide at once upon the cause-"boarding-schools! those curses, those pests! those terrible abiding-places of iniquity!" 
               Patience, my friends-if not, justice! Alicia Clarendon was born a flirt-born with an especial turn for sentimental intrigue. When she was five years old, she cut off a strand of her ebon braid to bestow upon Charley Murray, a youth of eight, and never till she was married did she reveal the secret. At eleven she received and wrote childish love-letters in a big, sprawling hand, and at fourteen she considered herself "engaged" to Bill Jennings, whom she smiled upon simply to draw him away from Sara Purvis, whose devoted boy-attendant he had long been. All these little affairs, and many intermediate ones, she never told, but delighted to know and keep to herself. 
               Meanwhile, Mrs. Clarendon, good soul! saw that her daughter's health was excellent, her dresses clean, her face smiling, and, busied with her pantry, her poultry, and her preserves, she asked and looked no farther. While Alicia was an infant, and while, consequently, a good and trustworthy nurse was her principal want, Mrs. Clarendon could not be torn from the child's cradle; and even a little later, every step must be guarded by the mother alone. The physical education was perfect, but the mental-ah me! Who can import for us some mothers to watch over the intellect, the budding wishes, thoughts, aspirations, and evil tendencies of giddy, grave, clever, dull young maidens? 
               Difficult, dangerous, but necessary task! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               ALICIA'S behavior was so circumspect during the next few weeks that Lily had great hopes about her, and was finally convinced that Mr. Harry Barclay's reign was over, and this foolish, imprudent affair at an end. 
               The time for Mr. Clarendon's arrival was drawing near, the school duties were in full force, and Madame was alternately urging and encouraging her two favorite pupils (if favorites she had) to waste no moments that were now so precious. 
               It was Saturday, and Lily was suffering from a headache, which made her prefer her own darkened room to any scheme of pleasure (such innocent pleasure as the half holiday brings to bread and butter misses), when Miss Clarendon entered their mutual apartment on tiptoe. 
               "Are you asleep, dear?" she said, bending over Lily. "Here is an invitation from Mrs. Elliott, who wishes us to dine and spend the evening with her. Madame consents, and the carriage, her servant says, will come for us at two o'clock." 
               "I shall be obliged to decline again," said Lily, drowsily, and yet noticing through her half-shut eyes a tremulous, eager, mischievous smile, which hovered about Alicia's face. "Make my excuses, Alicia. I am glad you have so pleasant an invitation offered, and I really regret that my only headaches should occur whenever Mrs. Elliott thinks of us." 
               Scarcely expressing her own regret, Miss Clarendon flew off to give the answer, and on her return, Lily heard her dancing down the corridor, humming in the most joyous key, and making amends by the excellence of her time for the harshness of her voice. 
               She moved noiselessly about the floor during the progress of her toilet, and said nothing, except an occasional "Poor dear!" as she would pass Lily in her journeyings to and fro; but Lily was still a little surprised to perceive, when her face was visible, that it was yet dimpling over with the brightest smiles. 
               "You do not seem to dread Mrs. and Miss Elliott's questions about the school?" 
               "Not much. I shall insist upon their talking of Saratoga." 
               "They have not given very long notice in their invitation?" 
               "Not very. It is nearly two o'clock now. I suppose they have just remembered that this is Saturday." 
               "You seem to anticipate a pleasant day?" 
               "Your head must be worse," ripost'd Alicia, turning round, and giving a hasty roll to her luxuriant black hair. "I never knew you put so many unnecessary questions before." 
               Lily was silenced, and presently Alicia went on: 
               "Any thing is better than passing the whole afternoon in this stupid place. Every one is gone or going out; you are indisposed; so that even the Elliotts are a relief." 
               "How pretty your new silk is!" said Lily; "and you look so high-bred in it. Come nearer, darling. How well it fits you! My uncle will be very proud when he comes. And he will have nothing to hear but praises of you, Alice. That only little folly! you have quite abandoned it?" 
                
               Alice stooped and kissed Miss Vere without answering, except by a smile and a tap on Lily's cheek. 
               "Adieu, 'airy, fairy Lilian!' Be quite well when I return, for I hear the carriage rattling to the door, and I must be off." Waving another kiss to her friend, Miss Clarendon caught up her gloves and handkerchief, and disappeared. 
               Imagine Lily's consternation when, some few hours after, the maid who answered the street bell knocked for admittance, and handed her a card. 
               "The lady asks for you, miss. She says she knows as Miss Clarendon is not here." 
               The card bore on its grayish, fashionable, unpolished surface, 
                     "MRS. I. CARLETON ELLIOTT."
                  
                
               "Here? down stairs? alone?" gasped Lily, hurriedly rising, and drawing the strings of her dressing-gown, while her trembling hands next attempted to arrange her collar and smooth her scattered curls. 
               In a second she was in the drawing-room, and holding out her arms imploringly, 
               "What is the matter with Alicia?" she said. "My dear Mrs. Elliott, tell me." 
               A broad and puzzled stare was Mrs. Elliott's first unmistakable reply. She glanced in amazement at Lily's costume, and said, 
               "Indeed, there is nothing the matter, unless it has happened during the last ten minutes, which can have seriously affected Miss Clarendon. I think just that time has elapsed since I saw her walking in Chestnut Street, and as you were not with her, I concluded that you must be at home, so I came to offer a drive. Will you go? What made you fancy, my dear Miss Vere, that some accident had occurred, or that I knew of it?" 
               Lily strove to regain her composure. 
               "I beg your pardon," she said. "I was almost asleep, having suffered during the whole morning from a tedious headache. The servant told me that you knew of Alicia's absence, and wished only me. I fancied-being aware-thinking-Who is with Alicia?" she abruptly wound up. 
               "The eldest Miss Browne-one of the Brownes, of Walnut Street-those dashing 'men's beauties.' Did you not know that your friend was with them?" and Mrs. Elliott's curiosity overcame her good-breeding, for she narrowly watched Lily's face. 
               A hot blush overspread the young girl's brow as she stammeringly answered, 
               "I have been stupidly ill to-day, and I have misunderstood what Alicia said. Pray excuse my extraordinary behavior and costume," she added, wrapping her dressing-gown more closely. "It makes me anxious indeed to dream even for a moment, and with my eyes open, that Alicia is in danger of any sort." 
               "Ahem!" coughed Mrs. Elliott, with a little significant sound. 
               "I am not so much older that Alicia in reality, but I feel the weight of years and responsibility more than she," Lily continued, forcing a smile; "consequently, while we are here alone, I have a sort of motherly watchfulness and anxiety about her." 
               Mrs. Elliott thought so lovely a young creature had never lived as Lily looked at this instant, her large, light curls hanging in transparent masses about her shoulders, a pink flush, deepening to scarlet, in the centre of her cheek and on her lips, and a feverish light glittering in her blue eyes. 
                
               "You will drive with me, I hope? I have a visit to make in the neighborhood which will just occupy me while you dress; consequently, without excuses,  tantt." 
               No sooner were they in the carriage than Mrs. Elliott said, with a little hesitation, 
               "I may be taking a liberty, my dear, but will you allow me to ask you a question? How old is Miss Clarendon?" 
               "Not quite seventeen-six months my junior," answered Lily, frankly. 
               "Can I put another question? Do you know any thing of Mr. Harry Barclay?" 
               "My kind Mrs. Elliott," said Lily, grasping her hand, "if you will be good enough to tell me something about him, I shall be very much obliged to you, and if you will guide me a little-This is scarcely an answer to your question; but I can guess at what you mean, my own mind being quite occupied with this very subject. I am, perhaps, too candid with an almost stranger, but there is no one here to whom I can apply for advice, and to write to my uncle Clarendon and arouse his suspicions would put an eternal source of disagreeable feelings between my dear Alicia and me. You have either noticed for yourself or heard of his attentions to Alicia; if he is worthy of her, and will wait a few weeks until she leaves school, then he can renew his devotions without their exciting the animadversions of the world. Her father is a man never likely to thwart his only daughter's wishes, if she will but make a respectable and prudent choice." A slight smile played around Mrs. Elliott's starched lips, and she looked a moment out of the carriage windows before she replied, not wishing to distress her companion by showing her own amusement while Miss Vere's agitation was so evident. 
               "You have answered my question very plainly, my dear, by speaking of Harry Barclay in the light of a marrying man. It is evident you know nothing of him. He is a young gentleman who has passed through a series of flirtations and 'desperate love-affairs' that have sufficed to give him the character of a downright 'heart-breaker.' He has enough money to live upon comfortably as a 'young man about town," and has proved in so many instances that he prefers his liberty to no matter what high matrimonial prizes, that it would be a losing bet to stake a sixpence upon any young lady's serious captivation of him. He is a terrible flirt, and yet takes no trouble about it. There are so many silly women and girls ready to run after him, 'tame enough to perch so soon as he holds out his finger,' that he walks along, gathering a string of victims, like a saunterer through an orchard, with the ripe peaches and pears falling about his feet. He will let Miss Clarendon receive his lazy homage, and accept her attentions in return, until some newer beauty arises, or until she worries him with fault-findings; then he will take off his hat with profound courtesy, and take likewise his leave." 
               Lily colored indignantly. 
               "What a detestable man!" she cried, with honest disgust. 
               "Not so, my dear," resumed Mrs. Elliott, warming to her subject and doing it justice, for she was really a clever woman, and a kind-hearted, though a little cold and patronizing; "not so, my dear. Harry Barclay is not naturally conceited nor very indifferent; that is, not more so than most men with a quarter of his personal and mental advantages; he is only spoiled and selfish. Your little cousin-excuse me-is just as great a flirt as Harry Barclay, and will be, I think, quite as unscru-quite as-in short," slurring over the sentence, "she took to him at once, on first seeing him, and was quite ready to flirt too, on his own terms. I am speaking very plainly, but it would be as well to stop this business. Miss Clarendon was so attentive to me during Mary's illness at Niagara, and hailing, as we both do, from dear old Carolina, I feel as if I might venture to warn you. The Club has taken up the story, and every window on Walnut Street has some lounger who "knows all about it." 
               Lily was in despair. 
               "But, after all," she pleaded, trying to put down the unsparing criticism of Mrs. Elliott, "there is still no positive harm in this. She has walked with him occasionally-" 
               Mrs. Elliott gave her little cough again, and passed her thin, neatly-gloved hand over her upper lip. 
               "Mr. Barclay's reputation is not such that I should like a daughter of mine to receive the 'cachet' of his admiration. If you were older, my dear Miss Vere, I might tell you of a few of his escapades with married women. But, however," she interrupted herself, "I have said quite enough. I trust you do not mistake my motive." 
               "What would you advise?" asked poor Lily, quite subdued, while the beating of her temples seemed to her almost audible. 
               "Since you prefer not applying to your uncle about your cousin-" 
               "One moment," interrupted Lily. "Mr. Clarendon is not my uncle; he is more to me than that. I owe him more than a mere blood relationship would demand. He is my guardian, and has taken care of me since I was an orphan six years old." 
               "Better still," continued Mrs. Elliott: "you then feel disposed to serve him and his family. Now, from what I have seen of you, your propriety and dignity of manner, your persuasive voice, and earnest tone, I have a plan of my own. I saw you one day at Niagara reduce a set of staring men to modest glances by the mere power of your calm look and womanly bearing, girl as you are. You must speak to Harry Barclay." 
               "I! good Heaven!" exclaimed Lily, starting up, to the detriment of the pretty bonnet (a match to Alicia's) which she had hastily thrown on for her drive. 
               "Yes, you," repeated Mrs. Elliott, calmly. "I will invite Mr. Barclay to tea to-morrow evening, and you will do me the favor to come with Miss Clarendon. I shall give you an opportunity of speaking to him, and I do not doubt that, in spite of your 'school-girl' position, you will impress him." 
               Lily ran over in her mind the pros and cons. Madame was out, and had not seen her driving with Mrs. Elliott. She had merely asked leave of a sous-matresse, which was readily granted. She would frighten Alicia by telling of her discovery, and by dealing gently with her it would perhaps induce the wayward girl to listen once more to reason. She could give Madame some explanation for the second visit, in such rapid succession, to Mrs. Elliott-the true one, in fact, a person to be met, whose presence had not been possible on Saturday. It would be a dreadful thing to talk with propriety while facing Mr. Barclay-to bring him to task-to call him to account, and to ask his forbearance for the future. But Alicia's name was at stake. It was evident that no one else meant to "do the deed." 
               "Thank you, Mrs. Elliott, for your kind intentions, and I accept gratefully such a mark of interest and consideration for us,"Lily at last warmly said. 
               Mrs. Elliott winced a little, for her conscience slightly murmured that kindness was less the motive power than her predominant passion for dipping her fingers into other people's pies; however, her conscience was rather tough on that score, and in this instance, although she really pleased herself by having a little "neighbor's business" to manage, still the action was commendable, and destined, she hoped, to be of use, and eventually to be crowned with success. 
               If Lily had been terrified and confounded by the announcement of Mrs. Elliott's visit at six o'clock, her amazement scarcely equaled Alicia's when, on that young lady's return home at ten in the evening, Miss Vere quietly gave her the invitation for the next day, without one syllable of explanation. 
               "Mrs. Elliott begs that we will take tea with her tomorrow." 
               Miss Clarendon opened her eyes until the long lashes of the upper lid threatened to invade her arched black eyebrows; and the smile which was, on her entrance, irradiating her pretty face, faded and lengthened into unconcealed wonder. In a moment she burst into a merry laugh, and said audaciously, 
               "So I am found out!" 
               "You have been with the Brownes?" 
               "Yes." 
               "You deceived Madame and me?" 
               "Yes," repeated Alicia, defyingly. "I am no longer a child, and both you and Madame wish to keep me in leading-strings!" And this sentence was a text from which she preached a long sermon against tyranny, caprice, prejudice, and a few other "lesser crimes," which she proved, to her own satisfaction, had been practiced upon her by Lily and by Madame. 
               "My dear Alicia," Miss Vere said, when the charming vixen had gone through her grievances, ending with a tear or two, provoked by her severe trials, "my dear love, I do not pretend to control you; and unless Madame should discover this business through some other source and question me, she will never get a word from my lips. I have accepted the invitation for both of us; good-night;" and Lily's milky eyelids closed over her violet eyes like a snowflake settling upon a cluster of blush roses, which simile, introducing in two lines animal, vegetable, atmospheric, and floral beauties, simply means that she went to sleep. 
               The next morning Madame was informed of the new engagement, and offered no objections. Alicia remained sulky, but did not refuse to go, and they went. 
               Mrs. Elliott's drawing-rooms were well stored with albums, and tagres of costly knick-knacks; so, while Lily was listening to the prosy details of mother and daughter (who had not precisely that gift which lies in investing trifles with charms), Miss Clarendon wandered from shelf to shelf, or pored over sketches of the Rhine and costumes of Europe, which alternately filled the pages of a richly-gilded and papier-mach-bound volume. 
               She was comparing this evening with her last, and inwardly yawning at the contrast; for, of course, it is needless to say that Mr. Barclay had joined Laura Browne and herself in their afternoon walk, and had accompanied them home. His image only was before her eyes, though in reality they rested upon the grim features of a Cossack chief, when, as if in answer to her thoughts, Harry Barclay himself entered! 
               "What a clever creature!" she exclaimed within herself. "How did he guess that I was here?" and a radiant flush gathered upon her cheek as she bowed without looking up. 
               The conversation was general and dull enough. 
               "Is this the company I am invited to meet?" thought Harry Barclay. "I never suspected that Mamma Elliott would so amiably consult my tastes," and he gave a side-glance at the dark little fairy, so demure and so proper. 
               In a few moments one of those unexceptionable young men-one of those safe youths, who might be trusted almost with the flirt dearest to you-I say almost, for you must not reckon without her part in the game-was announced. 
               He was mild and slim, with straight, light hair, looking always as if it had just been submitted to the most thorough inroads of a "patent, self-cleaning, fine-tooth comb," and a large nose, which, big as it was, failed to give character to his face. 
               Immediately after him followed a quick, jerking, not ill-looking and very busy gentleman, whose eyes roamed around as if in search of some hidden object, while his hands rapidly arranged the flossy curls given him by Nature, or drew down and smoothed off the waistcoat, cravat, or coat, for which he was indebted to his tailor, but which seemed equally parts of himself. 
               He spoke very quickly, bowing incessantly, and flourishing his handkerchief now and then; giving you the minutest account of where he had been, and where he was going, and where he would like to go. 
                
               During the bustle occasioned by their entrance, Mr. Barclay caught a look from Alicia, and moved toward her, seating himself in a huge chair next her low causeuse, and gazing down upon her prettiness and coaxing ways, as you might suppose a great Newfoundland dog would amuse himself with watching the graceful beauty of a coquettish little Blenheim. 
               Not long did Alicia enjoy her tte--tte; for as to whether Harry Barclay enjoyed it there is no saying. He took every thing so indifferently, that, although he did not show anxiety to exchange her company for any body else's, yet he seemed to find only a lazy satisfaction in it, which apparently partook more of endurance than of delight. Be that as it may, Mrs. Elliott interrupted the conversation by bringing up the second gentleman, whom she presented as Mr. Greene, and who, dropping into a place beside Miss Clarendon, despite the frown that lowered upon him, began a voluble detail of the expected brilliancy of the following winter season, and of the past glory of the preceding Saratoga gayety. 
               Meanwhile Mrs. Elliott stood up, talking to Mr. Barclay, who, hat in hand, listened with profound attention, and gave as many deep, respectful glances to her parchment skin, and light, inexpressive eyes, as he had bestowed languidly admiring ones upon the youthful loveliness of his previous companion. The hostess was blind to the angry curl of the young lady's lip, who would from time to time seek an answering look of encouragement from the tall creature far above her head, but who could not snub off the persevering Mr. Greene. 
               "You know how anxious I was about my box from Italy, Mr. Barclay? It has arrived, and the cameos are arranged in the cabinet. Let me show them to you." 
               Alicia almost cried as she saw Mrs. Elliott thus sweep Harry away, while the intolerable Greene flirted his handkerchief, and launched out into praises of somebody's horses or somebody's houses, she did not care nor hear which. 
               She did hear Mrs. Elliott invite Lily to look at the cameos too, and the trio disappeared behind the folding-doors (partially open) of the inner drawing-room. 
               No sooner were Miss Vere and Mr. Barclay busily engaged in admiring the cabinet, than the accomplished Mrs. Elliott was called out through a side "exit," unseen by those in the other room. 
               Poor Lily! how she trembled at the very idea of beginning. Her hands nervously drummed upon the inlaid sides of the buhl cabinet, and Mr. Barclay admired at his leisure her exquisite fairness, the abundant beauty of her hair, the pure outline of her oval face, and the candid modesty that seemed to perfume her very presence, and to be enthroned upon her smooth, gentle brow. 
               "I may as well speak," thought Lily; and, arming herself with a recollection of the importance of her duty, she commenced, in the lowest tone, 
               "I have seen you but once before, Mr. Barclay-" 
               "I beg your pardon?" said the gentleman, bending his ear to catch the sound. 
               Lily cleared her throat, and said, more distinctly, 
               "I have seen you only once before, but I think I have not judged too hastily in taking you for a person who has a-whose natural kindness of heart and whose gentlemanly feeling will authorize this step-who will willingly agree to my views." 
                
               Harry bowed, and, much amazed, felt like muttering to himself, according to De Balzac's hero, "Quoi! cette futeresse aussi!" but in a second he smiled at his own coxcombry. 
               "My guardian's daughter-my dearest friend-is too giddy for her years," pursued Lily; "she is not aware yet of the difference between childish attentions from boys who have grown up with her, and a flirtation with a gentleman-like Mr. Barclay. Will you not aid me to set her right? She is not conscious that walking with you, being seen with you, while she is still a school-girl, exposes her to unkind remarks. In a very little while we shall return home, and then-" Lily raised her eyes; no lover-like ardor was perceptible-in Alicia's admirer, but, on the contrary, his brilliant teeth shone below his black mustache in a faint smile of amusement, which vanished when he caught Lily's look. 
               "I do not care to mention this subject to Madame, nor to write of it to my guardian. All that is necessary is that you should deprive yourself of the pleasure of seeing Alicia, and that you should not encourage any opportunities of bringing you together. You will not think me bold or interfering, but you will do justice to the feeling which has decided me to trust you?" 
               "A few words under some circumstances, Miss Vere," replied Harry Barclay, with real admiration, "show us the true beauties or defects of a character better than months will often bring them to light. It is but the second time that we have met, and yet, nevertheless, I feel as if I could draw your inner self with an unerring pencil. You are right-you must always be right-and I promise to act according to your wishes." 
               "Yes; but Alicia?" inquired Lily. "You must explain to her that you think it most proper to await her father's arrival before renewing-" 
               She had made a false step. She had taken for granted that Mr. Barclay wished to marry Alicia, and a surprised look from him showed her mistake, and proved that she had compromised Miss Clarendon. Mrs. Elliott said truly, Harry Barclay was not a marrying man, and Lily hated him for an instant as he executed his well-feigned stare for explanation. 
               Tears filled her eyes, and she turned her head away sadly. Her pride was wounded through and for Alicia. 
               With a manly tenderness which well became him, and which he rarely displayed, Harry undertook to console her. 
               "You are annoyed," he said. "Let me deal as frankly with you as I would with my sister-if I had one. You are displeased that there should be nothing serious in my attentions to Miss Clarendon, and think that I have been trifling with her. Excuse me; we are to speak candidly, and I wish to correct your mistake. There is no stronger feeling on her side than on mine, take my word for it. I met her by accident in this very house, and recognized her as a young lady who had already attracted my attention in the street, as much for her beauty as because she was walking with a young girl not 'in society,' and whose flirting habits I knew." 
               "Matilda Browne? People whom we met traveling a year ago, and whose manners I always disliked. They insisted upon knowing us." 
               "Miss Clarendon is very bright, very pretty, and, conscious of her powers, she lays siege to every heart. Finding no one else at hand, she honored me with her smiles; but I am not sufficiently vain to construe her lively sallies and her occasional girlish preference of my society into a 'belle passion' for me. Any one would have answered just as well to stand the brunt of her whims and her little playful confidences." 
               "Do you really believe that?" asked Lily, fairly in for it. "She has never confided in me so far as you are concerned." 
               Again the saucy smile brought out a feminine dimple on Mr. Barclay's brown, rounded cheek. 
               "Indeed I do," he answered, with emphasis upon the "deed." 
               "Why do people call you conceited and spoiled?" asked Lily, naively. 
               Harry threw back his head and laughed heartily, whereat Miss Vere blushed, and was shocked at herself. 
               "We all have enemies," Harry said presently, recovering his gravity. "I am better than my reputation; and from your remark I conclude you have heard me spoken of as a desperate 'lady-killer,' going about with my hands full of trophies, and breakfasting daily on broiled hearts. I have been fortunate enough, from time to time, to attract the notice of some little girls, who, instead of minding their crochet-work, have looked at me because I chanced to be taller than most men-that is all. Upon my word, I am not dangerously fascinating." 
               "You will not let Alicia hear of this conversation?" Lily said, smiling faintly in return, as the gentleman concluded his speech with a bow, and the prettiest air of mock modesty. "She would rebel at my assumed authority, and the whole business would deeply wound her sensibility." 
               "You may trust me. I shall not give myself any longer the selfish pleasure of cultivating the friendship of even so charming a person as Miss Clarendon, since it excites remark. However unfounded I know these remarks to be, I shall unfalteringly respect your wishes, and am even pleased to think that by depriving myself of such happiness I insure your good opinion. Should this little business ever come to Miss Clarendon's ears, I trust you will do me justice with her; for the present, I shall be very circumspect; later, she may again enroll me among the humblest of her slaves." 
               Lily timidly extended her hand and thanked him. 
               "Bravo, Harry!" thought Mr. Barclay. "What a dear little thing it is! so courageous and yet so shy. You can see how much this effort has cost her. But, by Jove! how mad Alicia will be!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
                
                  LETTER FROM CLARENCE TRACY TO MRS. ARCHIBALD LANGDON. 
                  
                     "Heidelberg, Sept. 4th.
                   
                   
                     "Genevive! I have been reading Pynnshurst, the book you liked so much, and told me months ago that I should find so much, and told me months ago that I should find so congenial. It is a gem! No longer 'let your name be called' Angelica, but Genevive; 'Angel' less well suits you. How delightful is the dialogue throughout, and with what delicacy is the strongest passion painted! Every nerve thrills as you bend over the true, unaffected detail; you feel the mighty throb of Pynnshurst's noble heart, the intensity of his love; you bathe yourself in the lustrous light of Genevive's dark eyes, and you softly press her small, trembling hand as he does, and listen silently to the inward whispers of your full happiness. For those who love, it is a beautiful book, but the dnouement is stupid. Do you know a man who, in Pynnshurst's situation, would have contented himself with tumbling down on a gravel walk? He was quite right to go away, but a very simpleton to go alone; didn't you think so? And then Genevive, why need she turn idiot all of a sudden? Didn't she know that she had a husband who must come to light some day? It would have been far more satisfactory to my feelings had they gone to the magnolia-bowered cottage in the South. But, romance apart, although it sounds very pretty and nice, how long, think you, could two lovers exist ist by themselves on a plantation at the South as it is? 
                     "Alice is a poke. She was just fit to make a decent end of herself by marrying some other man; not to live single and bore poor Pynn, nor to die and leave him with remorse on his conscience for having been too agreeable unintentionally to his little cousin whom he had brought up. 
                     "Well, well, it is all over now. No doubt Pynnshurst is in reality a stout, respectable man, with a buxom wife, and Genevive is a scraggy Frenchwoman, with caf-au-lait eyes and a nascent mustache. 
                     "I would rather think of my Genevive-not Pynnshurst's. But why should I, pray? She is utterly heartless, and cruelly refused to believe in my sincere attachment. I verily think it would cost me less pain now to put an end to a friendship where the most perfect devotion on the one side meets so little return from the other. But alas! how truly does that famous Frenchman say, 'The influence of mere personal charms is limited; curiosity forms the great ingredient of this kind of love; but add the fascination of intellect to those attractions which habit and familiarity will diminish each day, and you will find them multiplied tenfold. If, besides intellect and beauty, you discover in your adored one caprice, irregularity and inequality of temper, close your eyes and seek no farther. You are snared for life!' 
                     "Apply this as you choose, Madame. Perhaps I love my Genevive also, because she writes such charming letters, and in so pretty a hand. I admire excessively a pretty handwriting in a woman; it is probably because my own scrawl is so frightful, so boyish, with great, irregular letters, and very uncertain capitals, like the temper and character of the destined-to-be-loved-ones. 
                     "Apropos, your last epistle was received by me with heart-stirring joy, only I was tormented by your account of the Saratoga boy-lover with whom you strayed along those 'green and flowery paths.' Who is he? Let me pursue him to the uttermost parts of the earth! But perhaps you snub him, and then, poor fellow! I sympathize with and pity him. 
                     "Why do you drive me frantic, likewise, by telling me how your European breadth of shoulders causes such bursts of admiration? Don't I know every dimple in them? Can I ever forget that night, last winter, when you dropped a Parma violet from your bouquet? You stooped to raise it; I stooped to prevent you, and my presumptuous lips grazed the dazzling slope of that very right shoulder which you have sometimes turned coldly upon me! As Corinne says, 'Les plus heureux moments de la vie sont encore ceux qu'um hasard bienfaisant nous accorde.' 
                     "But I am really delighted that you have had a pleasant, endurable summer. Have you left the Springs? Will you be in New York in October? 
                     "That is the eventful month which is to witness our restoration to our native land. William Clarendon and I will make superhuman exertions to leave Heidelberg by the 1st of October; sooner, if possible, so as to pass a day or two in Paris. 
                     "There is nothing to keep us here. We are so crammed with law and learning now that we are eager to get to Charleston, lest spontaneous combustion should entirely destroy this work of years before it finds an outlet. 
                     "There is, besides, a fat and languishing widowed fru, our opposite neighbor, who makes such desperate attempts upon Clarendon's heart that I tremble sometimes for the result. So far she has failed to impress him. He is impregnable; more's the folly. I do not understand the philosophy of refusing the gifts the gods provide; however, I have known a duel fought because one man helped another, clumsily, to a very nice dish, and I suppose Willie doesn't like things thrust at him, even if they are farcis aux truffes.
                      
                     "Good-by! My chief happiness is to think of you, and to imagine, when the shades of evening come on, that I hear in the sighing of this German autumn air your low voice murmur, 
                     
                        CLARENCE.
                      
                   
                   
                     "P. S.-Have you seen Lily Vere? She and Alicia Clarendon will be 'finished off' about the same time as ourselves. How will old Charleston stand such a galaxy at one blaze? Happily, Miss Sara prepared it by slipping off her chrysalis last winter. How do her wings unfold, upon the whole?" 
                   
                
                
                  ANSWER TO THE ABOVE. 
                  
                     "New York, October 1st.
                   
                  "MY DEAR CLARENCE,-You have a fever-I am sure you have. Let me feel your pulse. Yes; how it beats! Pray consult a physician at once; several, if your purse will stand it, for I consider you alarmingly ill, and-absurd. I direct this to Paris, poste restante, for I have learned through Lily, whose advices from you are better than mine, that you will not sail for America till the 25th; consequently, go to Cazot, or what is the man's name, and let him prescribe for a common and rather incurable disease, which in this country, you, I am sure, will never be able to conquer. Your malady is too much good luck, producing a chronic ic case of tremendous conceit and flippancy, and an intermittent fever of complete self-satisfaction and entire belief in your own powers. 
                  "Your letter was very amusing, I grant you, but rather less respectful than my dignity demands. 'My sponsors in baptism' gave me the name of Angelica; after that I was addressed as Miss Purvis; now 'I come when I am called' Mrs. Langdon. I am neither Coleridge's, Pynnshurst's, nor your Genevive. A truce to reproof, however, and I will tell you a little about ourselves. 
                  "Lily is here with me. Alicia and herself were to have remained in Philadelphia a little longer, storing their minds, like the busy bee, with the honey of fashionable education (having declined my invitation for the summer), and Mr. Clarendon was to have taken them home direct from their 'Miss Pinkerton's'; but, from what I can gather in careful cross-questioning, I fancy that Alicia has begun to practice a profession in which she will very soon rank as Bacheloress of Arts-coquetry. 
                  "There is some story which she hinted at, looking daggers meanwhile at Lily, about a certain Mr. Harry Barclay, whom I know pretty well, and if our youthful compatriote has taken her first degree from him, she has well begun in her especial line. Lily, of course, frowns (as frowningly as Lily can frown) upon such proceedings, and wrote to ask permission that they might leave school at once and come to me, thus killing two birds with one stone-separating Alicia from her admirer, and giving her a chance, amid the gayeties of New York, to forget that she missed him. 
                  "For the first, Philadelphia is very near New York, and Harry may pop in any day; but for the last, there is some hope of success. My demoiselles font fureur. I shall describe them, and, beginning with Alicia, my pen will have accustomed itself to a theme of beauty before I take up Lily. 
                  "Alicia is small, round, dimpled, indolent, brown, graceful, and extremely wide awake. She has those same large eyes which you recollect, but how Mrs. Clarendon's daughter got their expression of subdued fun, passion, languor, and diablerie, I never shall understand. Her nose is piquant and slightly retrouss, just a very little; it seems anxious to catch a glimpse for itself of those handsome eyes and their deeply-marked black brows. She has pale, plump cheeks, and very bright lips, with a shade upon the upper one, which you sneer at in Genevive-grown-older, but which really adds a great and peculiar charm to Alicia's face, for the moment, while it is so slight, and she so fresh and unsunned. Her forehead is low, very low, and her cormorant's-wing hair crimples naturally, independent of nightly plaitings, and needing little trouble to arrange in bandeaux of la dernire mode. 
                  "You will recognize in the picture, perhaps, the little 'girl you left behind,' and who, from fourteen to seventeen, has progressed as I try to show you. I need not amplify this narrative by giving you her character and temper as I see them. If you can not divine her, as I did, on first view, you are dull indeed, and philosophic pages would not enlighten you. 
                  "Lily Vere is so different from this pen-and-ink sketch, that I could almost draw her by contraries. Lily is tall, gentle, fair, soft, kind, steady, tractable. Her figure is beautiful; not stiff, though classically regular and perfect. It is like the figure of an angel. Fully developed-yet 'diaphanous' is the word you feel best describes it. Her waist sways and bends like a flower on its stalk, and her lovely head is set upon her shoulders with one of those long, transparent, downy throats, with the hair springing from the nuque in three points, evenly divided, and never straying down in ragged ends. (This is a rare beauty, let me tell you, and one that neither bandoline nor crme d'amande will with certainty produce.) This hair is of the same golden luxuriance as ever, but she has been taught to dress it more carefully, and her abundant ringlets are trained to fall so as not entirely to hide the turn of her cheek, which is peculiarly oval and graceful. Her eyebrows and lashes are darker than they were, her eyes unchanged. I never saw such eyes. What the mischief ails the girl? They are so blue, so deep, so confiding, and so unsparing! Not a freckle, not a spot mars the purity of her skin. On her temples, below her eyes, around her mouth, there is the pellucid transparency you might look to see only in a very young child. Her tastes are simple; her dress corresponds to her tastes. While Alicia covers herself with trinkets, and playfully shakes her little fist at you, shining with rings, most of them gifts from Lily, the heiress herself, 'draped' I   n grayish silks or pure white, allows her statuesque arms no ornament but fine lace ruffles. Lace is her only extravagance. Owing to this difference of costume, and Alicia's curiously evident likeness to me, we are often taken for cousins, and Miss Clarendon for the heiress. But Alicia is too well satisfied with herself to desire that sort of homage which would reach her through her fancied possession of Lily's gold, and she carefully undeceives every body. 
                  "You see them now, do you not? these young creatures, just stepping into life's struggles? From my pedestal as a married woman, and my five years' seniority, I contemplate them calmly. I like the sensation they make. I am proud of Lily. They don't interfere with me. They attract their own circle, and don't infringe on mine. Alicia is amusing-full of espiglerie and little ways. Lily is grave, smiles at Alicia's follies, spoils her when she thinks she may venture to do so, and floats about the house like a visitant spirit. If it were not for her fortune, she would not be nearly so popular with young men as that naughty Alicia. She is so circumspect, so dignified, and so intolerant of double-entendres, fulsome compliments, and free and easy manners. 
                  "I have scribbled pages, never stopping to consider the length of this effusion, but I have a double motive. I wished to prepare you to meet your old friends, and I was dying to talk openly about them. Of course, my hostess-ship commands that I should speak of them with equal praise, and it would never answer to tell Charley Williams or Percy Patterson just what I have told you. Praise of one's cousin, and disparagement of one's guest, is very ill breeding. 
                  "You ask about Sara. She is certainly handsome-but your anxiety can wait till you see her in Charleston. Mamma and herself went to Virginia this summer, after a flying visit to me in New York in June. Sara fancied that her complexion was out of tone, and mamma's nerves were shaky; so they have been drinking White Sulphur water, and Sara writes me one of her interesting letters of a page and a half, to say that they are perfectly restored. 
                  "In passing through Philadelphia on their way to the Springs (having come here per steamer), they behaved with such characteristic affection to papa's niece! They paused for the next train of cars, and drove round to Madame-'s. Lily was out walking. They left their cards and compliments, and went on. 
                  "I shall not say adieu; wind and water permitting, we shall meet so soon. Think about that fever, and be sure to consult the most energetic physician. 
                  
                     "Still yours confidentially, 
                     A. P. L."
                   
                
                
                  This was written upon several sheets of note-paper of a tea-green, last-fashion hue; it smelt faintly of Marchale; the initials, in dead gold and in anagram, headed each first page; the envelope was long and narrow; the writing neat, lady-like, and flowing. It was sealed with wax of a darker shade than the paper, and the impression was given by an emerald seal-ring, worn on Mrs. Langdon's fourth finger, and bearing two words-"Je veux." 
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               AFTER an unprecedented short run, the finest steamer of the Collins line was moored at its New York wharf, and among the first passengers who stepped on shore, valises in hand, were two young men. They were both young, and one was strikingly good-looking. He was dark, tall, well-made, and gentlemanly, with a pleasant, musical voice, and a laugh which, though not frequent, was joyous and hearty. 
               The other was smaller, slighter, and owed what personal beauty he possessed more to expression and cultivation of feature than to positive natural gifts. Though still in his "sea-clothes," they were of a Paris "build," and the rough material showed an artist's hand in their make. His eyes were flashing, hazel-black, and capable of deep concentration; his forehead high and broad, and the hair grew well around it and parted easily. His mouth was too sarcastic, but a mustache of a dark chestnut color sufficiently veiled its defects, while very white teeth constantly showed themselves in a smile more sneering than gay. 
               They got possession of one trunk apiece by superhuman exertions, some coaxing, and a little flattery, and leaving the rest of their luggage in the hands of those most intolerable harpies, the New York custom-house officers (who, in parenthesis be it said, are nuisances of the greatest impertinence, and who truly, harpy-like, ruin every thing which they touch), William Clarendon and Clarence Tracy drove to their hotel. 
                
               It was late in the evening-dinner just over; so they ordered a few scraps to be gathered together, and then, after refreshing baths and fresh toilettes, took their way to No.-Fifth Avenue, losing as little time as possible. 
               "The ladies all out," was the unsatisfactory reply of Mrs. Langdon's footman, who had a smack of un-American livery on his legs and on his back. 
               "Dining out?" 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "Do you know where?" 
               "No, sir. The coachman is laid up. Mrs. Langdon had a carriage from the stables, and I didn't hear the orders as Mr. Langdon gave the driver. Mrs. Langdon sent me in the house on a message jist as I was a shutting the carriage-door." 
               "We may as well give it up," said William Clarendon. "We can come early to-morrow." 
               "If you would like, sir, I'll call Mrs. Langdon's maid, Miss Rosylee. She mought know." 
               "Thank you." 
               Miss Rosylee came smiling down, and gave a little shriek of recognition when she saw Clarence, sinking for a moment into one of the moyenage chairs which solemnly adorned the marbled walls and tesselated floor of the entrance-hall. 
               "M. Tracy! how surprise will be Madame! She did not expec you and M. le frre of Meess Alice until two days more. Donnez vous la peine to walk in." 
               Clarence was always full of little absurd gallantries for this class of people. Waiting damsels and shop-women quite adored him. He used to talk any quantity of highflown nonsense to them, which, as he never carried it farther, only delighted his listeners. 
                
               He complimented Rosalie on her improved looks, on her tasteful cap (which Angelica insisted that she should wear-on it, indeed, her wages rested), and on the grace of her manner. 
               Rosalie courtesied and smiled, and, led on by Willie's evident amusement, Clarence's French tongue rattled away most untiringly, till he was recalled to their principal business by Clarendon's remark, 
               "I do not think we yet know where we may be likely to find the ladies." 
               "Oh, ces dames!" cried Rosalie; "Monsieur must wait till de morning. Dey dine with Mrs. Antony Hardcastle, and will not be back dese tree, four hours." 
               "Very well; then we are off. Rosalie, New York agrees better with you than Paris, where I last saw you, trying to persuade Madame, while you were dressing her hair, that les Etats-Unis was a villain pays, unfit for Christians and persons of taste. By the way, how is Marquise?" 
               "Oh, la petite chrie! she barks at every one still. Elle dteste Monsieur, and snap at his heel as always. Madame en raffole." 
               "Clarence, you are a curious specimen!" exclaimed William Clarendon, as they left the gorgeously-subdued hall and superbly-furnished drawing-room behind them, and walked down the broad, white marble steps into the street again. "I never knew a man more particular, more nicely discriminating in his choice of a woman to talk to in society. Many a pleasant enough girl, with some slight inaccuracy of language, and many a handsome woman of doubtful manners, whom other men would find interesting for an hour or so, you scorn with uncompromising rejection; but place you any where with a humbly-born and underbred bred person of the softer sex, old or young, pretty or ugly, and you win her heart instantly with ridiculous speeches and bows like a willow-tree blown by the wind; whereas I, who can manage to get on very well with women who are nominally, at least, on the same footing as myself, however deficient in positive refinement, find an absolute lack of something polite to present in an agreeable way to this sort, unless I were to make love to them." 
               "I think it is very simple," said Tracy. "A lady must, to my mind, be a real lady. Betty or Molly, whether she wear a calico gown and scrubs the steps, or a robe de percale, like Rosalie, or waits behind a counter like the little grisette of whom I ordered my last supply of cravats, or brings me my handkerchief like the stewardess of our late steam home, I treat with regard merely to her womanship. I expect nothing from her. I amuse myself and please her with a little frolicsome badinage, or, if she be an 'elderly,' with a little sympathy, until the humor passes; then I break up the conference, and there is the end of it. But for an individual passing as my equal, the currency must be pure, the metal ring clearly; and the coin, no matter how dull outwardly, must be sound within. Fast women-under-bred women in silks and satins, who expect you at least to leave cards upon them, I avoid with cowardly terror." 
               "And yet I have seen you doing a deal of grave tenderness to a woman who was certainly not a lady, and as certainly, I think, not one of the naughty ones of the earth." 
               "Where and when?" asked Clarence, wheeling round abruptly, and eying his companion with a fierce spark beneath his dark brows. 
                
               "My dear fellow," said Willie, laughing, "I met you in the Bois de Boulogne. The 'object' was very humbly dressed, and yet your air and manner were deeply respectful. She had your arm, and her veiled face was turned from you. You were gesticulating with energy. She gradually listened with fast-returning confidence and head, when suddenly a winding in the alle swept you both out of sight. Upon my honor I was not watching you. Accident gave me this scene, and that is my whole story. I did not catch a glimpse of her ensnaring beauty." 
               Clarence's brow relaxed, and he laughed out also; but a short, quick breath showed his relief. 
               "Yes, that is a poser, Willie. What is the use of going straight to the hotel?" he went on, without farther explanation. "Here is a play-bill which says that Miss Julia Dean will favor the world in general, moyennant seventy-five cents per head, with her reading of 'Adrienne,' at the Broadway Theatre. Let us join them. I saw Rachel in 'Adrienne' the very last time that I witnessed that grand creature's performance. It will be amusing to compare this Western girl's acting with the world-renowned tragedienne's." 
               "Thank you," said Willie, yawning; "I shall go to bed. It will be a real comfort to sleep in a real bed once more, which is what all people say if they have been at sea two days or two months." 
               "Good-night, then;" and, nodding to Mr. Clarendon, Clarence threw away the cigar which he had lit on leaving Mr. Langdon's, hailed an omnibus, and sprang in. He watched Willie for a second, the gas-lamps and his still burning Havana pointing him out, while the omnibus rumbled lazily along, jolting at every turn of the wheel. 
                
               "He did not see her, I am pretty sure of that," Clarence muttered; "and, besides, Lorenza never leaves the house. He will be a sharp man who can find her gadding." 
               On paying for his ticket at the box-office, a mysterious door-keeper suggested that the only seat he could get was one on the first bench, immediately next a private box. 
               "But you must wait a minute or two. There is a gent as is sitting there who is mighty drunk; he has snored out twice a'ready, and hung his feet once over the railing. When he does that agin, I'll have him out, and you can take his place." 
               Clarence asked if there was no hope but this inebriated one. 
               "I reckon the house is chock full," replied the man. So Clarence waited, and, sure enough, presently there was a scramble, a scuffle, a cry of "Turn him out," and in plunged the door-keeper, collared his victim, and winked at Tracy, who, obeying the signal, made his way to the front bench and struggled into the vacant seat. 
               Adrienne was on the stage, and, although Rachel was in his mind, he soon felt that the "Western girl" deserved that he should forget unkind comparisons with her great original, and, taking her only on her merits, commend so praiseworthy an actress. So he listened and looked, as much as possible, without arrires penses.
                
               Presently his attention was distracted. He sat close beside the private box, leaning his head against the pillar of the partition, and a woman's hand suddenly fell on the cushioned front of this box, just beneath his eyes. 
                
               I do not mean a hand severed from the arm, and lying all bloody and terrible, but a living hand, whose owner was concealed behind the curtain. 
               It was ungloved, and white as a magnolia leaf, except just upon the outer edge of the palm, where a rosy tinge appeared, deepening to a henna-like pink as it reached the ends of the fingers, and lying beneath the almond-shaped nails like carnation leaves covered over with the inner lip of a sea-shell. It was not a "tiny" hand, nor a "little" hand, nor a "fairy" hand, where proportion is sacrificed to smallness; it was like the hand of an antique statue, and, as it rested calmly and silently upon the cushion, the fourth finger naturally divided itself from its sisters with a "line of beauty" which was indescribably graceful. A wrist of delicate shape, needing no bracelet to give it a borrowed roundness of outline, joined this beautiful hand to the arm which swelled above it. 
               Clarence watched the exquisite thing as it lay so pure and so still before him. He dreamily tracked a blue vein which presently struck his gaze, rising like a little stream from a bed of snow, and slowly he followed its course till it buried itself in the white arm. He almost leaned forward to look after its progress behind the curtain; but the hand moved, and, slightly turning up its roseate palm, with its fingers gathered together like the petals of an opening flower, gave him a new phase of perfection to admire. 
               At length a thought crossed him. The hand seemed familiar. He listened to catch the voice of its mistress, but, except once, when a deep-drawn sigh either proclaimed her attention to the business of the stage or her weariness, no sound but the confused murmuring of the other members of the party reached him. 
                
               The third act was over, and, if I remember aright, it closed with the mournful discovery to Adrienne that the Count de Saxe had left her to meet a rival whom she herself generously protects. 
               There was that rustling and settling of skirts which always follows the dropping of the curtain; men scattered out on all sides, as if they had been intensely annoyed, and now thankfully escaped; and Clarence wondered whether he should run the risk of losing his seat by going to the opposite side of the house, and there facing the lady of the hand, or stay where he was, and trust to chance and her exit. 
               Suddenly a voice he knew as well as his own spoke in the box, and a sparkling fan touched the hand gently. 
               "Why so pensive, dear?" 
               "When is the Liverpool steamer due?" said the hand's mistress, withdrawing it. 
               It was Lily. 
               Clarence Tracy sprang over the benches and tapped at the door. 
               The box was filled, but his entre was most effective, and very gratifying to his vanity. 
               Angelica, Alicia, Lily, an elderly lady very much dressed and excessively red in the face, Mr. Langdon, and some "young men about town," formed the party. 
               He was at liberty now to fold the hand in both of his own, and to gaze unreproved upon the lovely, stately, blushing, shrinking creature, with her "grayish silk" dress, and knots of silver ribbon, partially draped in a huge, soft white shawl, which trailed from her fair shoulders as she rose to greet him-to greet him with tears swimming in her blue eyes, alternate gusts of color or pallor lighting or blanching her cheek, and not a word of welcome on her lips. Joy spoke loudly enough when she looked her happiness. 
               Clarence bent his eyes into hers, and a stranger would have sworn that their emotion was equal. The trembling eagerness of his grasp, the effort to tear himself away, the sudden change of manner as he turned with cordiality to Alicia, who was next Lily, was quite a study to witness. It reminded one of the attempts (often successful) of actors, who storm through a line or two, frightfully ranting, and then, reducing their voices to a summer softness, leisurely lisp out the next sentence. 
               Angelica enjoyed it. She passed her handkerchief over her mouth, and while her large eyes seemed full of tender sympathy for this happy meeting, a smile was dancing in every dimple. 
               "What a consummate hypocrite!" was her muttered comment as she next raised her lorgnette, and looked over the gaping crowd in the parquette, waiting for her turn. 
               A flash of amusement showed her appreciation of the scene as she shook hands with Clarence, who was stolidly unconscious, and made no answering signal. 
               He was presented to Mrs. Hardcastle, the stout lady in permanent crimson, who had as great "an eye for men" as good Queen Bess, and who seemed only moderately satisfied with Clarence's spare proportions; then he and Mr. Langdon exchanged remarks, and the young men were duly named and bowed at. 
               "But where is Willie? where is my brother?" asked Alicia. 
               "Alas! poor Willie! how little he dreams, as he now lies asleep at the hotel, what pleasure I am enjoying! We hurried to your house," inclining his head toward Mr. Langdon, "hoping to find you all, and, being disappointed, Clarendon went home to bed, and I strolled accidentally to this theatre. Chance placed me in the very next box, where soon I heard familiar voices, having first been attracted by . . . . That reminds me, however, Rosalie informed me that you were dining out." 
               "Yes," said Angelica; "our visit here is impromptu. We dined with Mrs. Hardcastle en petit comit, and some one proposed encouraging 'native talent;' so, despite our evening dresses, we ventured, trusting to these high partitions to conceal our 'grandes toilettes' and bare heads from the hoi polloi. But leave ourselves, and tell us about Mr. Clarendon and you." 
               Till the curtain rose again, Clarence talked with few interruptions. His style was easy, full of amusing detail, and interesting. Though he took the whole conversation upon himself, still his egotism appeared more a desire to please his listeners than to show off his own powers. 
               When the play recommenced, he turned his whole attention to Lily, whispering close to her ear, and yet not with undue familiarity. She was very silent; her bosom heaved now and then with a happy sigh, and her eyes would sometimes meet his own; but, for the most part, she fixed her absent look upon the stage, with changing color and a subdued beatitude of expression. 
               Angelica saw them unmoved. She exchanged remarks about Adrienne's costume with Mrs. Hardcastle, who was an uncompromising dresser, and occasionally she would cast a word at the youth who leaned over her chair, drinking deep draughts from her intoxicating eyes, and whom Clarence, without looking at him, decided to be "the Saratoga boy-lover." Adrienne draws off her gloves, and, smarting with bitter and unavenged insult, recites her rle from "Phdre," while her hostess sneeringly suggests that she should give them "the deserted Ariadne." 
                      
                        "I am not of those sinful ones 
                        Who feel in crime naught but a tranquil joy, 
                        And bear a brow insensible to shame!" 
                     
                  
                
               Glowing with honest indignation, she peals forth these lines, and pointing with scornful finger at the "sinful one," typified by the princess, who receives unflinchingly the well-aimed rebuke, while confusion prevails in the courtly circle met to applaud the supposed unmeaning recitations of the great actress. 
               "Serves her right!" exclaimed Mrs. Hardcastle, alluding to the princess; "what business has a married woman to interfere with other people's lovers?" 
               Here a discussion ensued, which was learnedly taken up, Angelica insisting that for her part she objected to such interference simply because it was "such trouble." "When a woman had a husband to manage, why under heaven should she undertake to battle with other women for the direction and care of their property? Men were only useful and agreeable as whetstones on whom one sharpened one's legitimate powers of control. No reasonable creature could seriously think that there was any comfort to be gained in exchanging one man for another. They were all alike; their envelopes only differed. You were as likely to find contentment, or rather strife, in one man's society as another's. Therefore satisfy yourself, if a married woman, with the man whom the law gave you an unlimited right to govern and to lead. Everything else was a humbug." 
                
               "You appear to forget the morality of the thing altogether, Angelica. Has that no weight?" asked Mr. Langdon, from the background. 
               "Did you speak?" inquired Angel, with an impertinent drawl, scarcely turning her head. 
               Her husband repeated his remark. 
               "Oh!" she answered, shrugging her shoulders scornfully, "I did not know that any one was entering into the haute morale of the business. If this is to be a heavy discussion, as I presume from your taking part in it, I shall withdraw. You will crush my butterfly wings beneath the Juggernaut car of your criticism." 
               Clarence had paused to listen to Angel's flippant retort, and he inwardly muttered, 
               "Handsome, diabolical creature! Is that first speech a taunt at me and a final warning off the premises?" 
               While Dick Everett, little conversant with the outward appearance of angels, and proud of his French, whispered to her, stirring as he did so the great diamond solitaire which adorned her little, close-curled ear, "Dmon, cousue dans une peau d'ange!" 
               Alicia was busy with two or three admirers, smiling, coaxing, commanding, glancing, like a canary-bird of lazy habits, with several lumps of sugar to dispose of at once. She pecked here, and flew off there; now bestowed her whole attention upon one tempting morsel, and then, turning her back upon it, chirped her admiration for another heretofore neglected. 
               The last scene of Adrienne's sad life drew near. 
               She took from the box, sent her, as she fancied, by the count, her own faded bouquet, when she had fondly hoped that its contents would offer her a token of his renewed affection. She presses the poisoned leaves to her lips-to her heart; she inhales her speedy death through its fatal agency, and already the work is begun, when Maurice himself appears, and she sees him once more her devoted lover. 
               All is forgiven-all is forgotten. She thinks no more of the withered flowers, whose rejection had been her doom, when suddenly the sharp pang of the insidious perfume recalls her from realms of future bliss as Maurice's bride to the stern present. 
               "The flowers!" he cries. The horrible certainty is guessed. They come from the jealous, fierce hands of the princess, and Adrienne's fate is sealed. 
               With his arms around her, soothing her last agonies with his love, his touching misery calling upon Heaven to spare her young life, she dies. 
               "Better so-better so," murmured Lily, her low voice drowned in tears; "better to have died believing him entirely true, leaving with him the sweet recollections of her sorrowful fate, her beauty untouched by care or time, dying through his unconscious means, than live to have him again desert her for the flattering smiles of unworthy women." 
               "But do you think he would have done so, Lily?" whispered Clarence, humoring her grave way of witnessing a mimic passion. 
               "I fear it," said Lily, hastily wiping her eyes. "He would always have found an excuse for encouraging or responding to flatteries. He was a vain man; they are weaker than vain women." 
               The party was on the move. 
               Little Everett was folding Angel's shawl around her, and looking as if he worshiped and envied the happy Cashmere. She was languidly "sipping the delights" of his ingenuous adoration. Mrs. Hardcastle, with the air of a critic, was saying, 
                
               "Julia Dean was better in those two last acts-much better. Her dresses were really pretty, whereas in that first scene she was hideous. I never saw such a machine as she wore on her head." 
               Alicia was "making up her book" of polkas and waltzes for a party the next evening, so nobody listened to the poor old lady, for Mr. Langdon had gone to see after the carriage; consequently Clarence, with his usual far-seeing policy and never-failing vision, read "good dinners" to come in Mrs. Hardcastle's punchy figure, and dissatisfaction at the general neglect in her scowl. 
               Turning from Lily, he remarked, with an insinuating smile, 
               "Don't you think she did well? It was extremely effective, that drooping of the chin and the half-closed eyes." 
               "Pretty well-indeed I may say very well," replied the lady; "she got her train admirably from under the count's feet. I have an evening reception every Friday, Mr. Tracy, and I shall be happy to see you at dinner next Wednesday. Mr. Hardcastle will leave his card to-morrow on you and on Mr. Clarendon." 
               "Thank you. Should we stay until that time, we should be most happy. I shall do myself the honor of calling, and answering more positively. Prosy old women must be looked after, Lily," he added, in an under tone, as he offered his arm, Mr. Langdon having returned to take charge of Mrs. Hardcastle, and to report the carriage "driven up." 
               "Come early to-morrow, Clarence," said Lily from the coach window, kissing her hand. 
               "And oh!" cried Alicia, dismissing her covey of beaux, "give my love to Willie, and tell him I am dying to see him." 
               "Don't forget my invitation," mumbled Madame Hardcastle, grinning her favor. 
               The carriage drove off. 
               "Not a word, not a look from Angel!" thought Clarence. "To the last moment she was whispering nonsense to that conceited boy with his curls and his airs, who planted himself in the street mud so as to be as near her as possible till they drove off. She is deuced cool; but she will find her match!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               PROBABLY there are some people who will be tempted to exclaim, "False, false-false to human nature, that a man so young as Clarence Tracy should deliberately seek to win the heart and hand of a little girl merely with an eye to her money; that he should be encouraged in this deed by her own cousin, at the same time flirting with this very cousin, who, a married woman (pile up the horror!), listens to his speeches, plays him fast and loose, and, in a word, acts like a real unprincipled demon leagued with a brother spirit of iniquity. If they were older-but so young-it is unnatural, and, consequently, devoid of interest." 
               I can only answer, it may be so, but, for all that, it is true. 
               Let me take your objections backward, and first reply to the charge of Clarence's youth. He was certainly but a little over nineteen when I first presented him, but, besides a born talent for deception, he fell into the hands of a woman who never had been young. Do you deny such a proposition? Angelica Purvis reasoned selfishly when she was five years old; planned, plotted, and carried out her plots with a calm reserve which ripened each day. 
               She had never had a thought in which Angelica Purvis did not figure largely, save in the case of Margaret Oakes, and, meeting a heart colder than her own in that instance, she applauded her previous sagacity, and only determined that not one exception should exist to the broad, unfailing rule, "Every one for himself." 
               Her family she despised-not openly, not with cross words and abuse (she was too well-bred for that), but with inward sneers and outward indifference. Mrs. Purvis was not likely to command the respect of her gifted daughter, she was so frivolous, so foolish, so fretful. She felt this, and never interfered with nor tried to govern Angelica, who grew up from cold childhood to reserved girlhood, whence she imperceptibly glided into haughty, self-concentrated womanhood. 
               She was more at home with men than with women. She liked to excite their interest by occasional details of her fancied sufferings-sufferings invented for the moment, which filled the eyes and hearts of her listeners, induced them to waste most wholesome and excellent sympathy upon the distresses of this syren, whose luxurious home was a wilderness, and made them feel as if they longed to do battle for her, and to die happy if her fine white hand waved them on to slaughter. 
               These desperate admirers were the very young ones, of course; for those of an older growth she had half-uttered sighs over a wasted life, regrets that she had not been born where genius alone reigns supreme, and dark glances through her moist lashes which were even more effective than her words. 
               Not one could boast of peculiar favor from Angelica Purvis. Her flirtations, strange as it may seem, were strictly proper. She was too clever by far to permit a familiarity, which, however much it may momentarily increase the admiration of the other sex, eventually leads to their indifference-perchance disgust. 
               Her beautiful figure was dressed always so as best to display its perfection; her little foot did not unkindly kindly hide itself beneath her flowing skirts; her hand and arm often gesticulated with ensnaring grace beneath the very lips of her listener, and her wondrous eyes meltingly sought their meed of praise. 
               But woe to the man who fancied such theatrical performances were to be applauded nearer than you give your "hand" to a fascinating "Fotheringay" upon the stage. For such a breach of decorum Angelica was inexorable. 
               Admire her, sigh for her, die for her-devour her with your eyes, worship her footprints, but keep your distance in word and in action. 
               "La vertu base sur le calcul est invincible." Angelica, whether as Miss Purvis or as Mrs. Langdon, was invincible. She would flirt to the very borders of positive encouragement, and then retreat with as much ease as a court beauty from the presence of her sovereign. You did not even see her kick her train from beneath her heels. 
               Angelica never cared for the quality or duration of the admiration she excited. Numbers, facts, and figures were her rule, principle, and wish; something new to dazzle was always preferable to something old to fix. 
               Besides, she had seen enough, and read enough, and knew enough to be aware, when she was fourteen years old, that an object in view, a prize to be striven for, is more valued than an object grasped, a prize won. 
               She liked to keep a train of "adorers" always on hand, and at the same point; to make them whirl for her pleasure as a juggler spins his plates; with one touch to set them off, watch their revolutions, give a twirl of her finger to bring up an expiring waltzer, retire a step or two to admire the effect, and then again apply the slight impetus where it was needed. 
                
               She took charge of Clarence Tracy because at Chicora he was useful to practice upon, and, moreover, he was clever enough and well enough looking to amuse her. Gradually he interested her. Instead of dropping him on her return to the city, and when her approaching marriage would afford ample occupation, she thought he might be worth keeping for life. She studied him, looked into him with her discriminating eyes, and recognized a spirit congenial to her own. Soon she perceived his boyish influence over Lily, and her girlish preference for him; a preference that threatened to grow into a passion, and which he would willingly return with all the love of which he was capable. 
               Angelica had an inordinate swallow. She was a true "daughter of the horse-leech," and her cry was always "for more" conquests. She was intolerant of other women's charms, and if any woman attracted any man, it was, she fancied, because she, Angelica Purvis, permitted it without interference. 
               She was willing that Lily should marry Clarence, and was indeed anxious that Clarence should enjoy Lily's wealth; but, at the same time, it was necessary that Clarence should feel her power, and that her nets should display their accustomed prowess. 
               A few hours sufficed to turn the boy's vain head, and to make him fancy that he had a heart, and that Angelica filled it. Lily was a pretty, sweet, endearing child. Angelica was a haughty, grave, matured woman, whose attentions were the most witching flattery. She never told him that he was a charming youth; she only gave him a glance or two from her repertoire of looks, and a phrase or two from her vocabulary of insinuating speeches. She meant no harm either to Lily or to himself. She was amusing herself, and passing ing the time. Then came the boy's sudden accession of fortune, and his surprising offer. Angelica did not wound his self-love (his strongest sentiment) by a scornful rejection. No; she secured her future power by a half-uttered regret, and a magnanimous withdrawal in favor of Lily-to benefit him. 
               She drew her meshes tighter, and did not leave the hem of her dress in the entangled skeins. 
               By this time, though, with all her real liking for his brilliant parts, she thoroughly understood his faults, his glaring defects. They did not interfere with her own fancy, since she meant to rule him merely at a distance, but they were sad qualities for a husband to one like Lily. 
               Her heart (?) melted one day; a ray of sunlight thawed the thick slab of ice; the memory of her aunt came over her, and she spoke. Instead of being grateful, Lily opposed and refuted facts. Quickly as it came, the tiny ray disappeared, and Angelica wondered at her own folly in seeking to do good. 
               "After all," she reasoned, "why should I wish to prevent this match? I happen to know Clarence Tracy, and to understand his weakness, his instability, his hypocrisy. No doubt there are other men quite as bad as he, and worse, who would marry Lily, spend her money, be indifferent to her, and not do it in half so gentlemanly a way as Clarence. She likes him. She is bound to be the prey of fortune-hunters, and if he don't marry her some one else will, who, as I have suggested, won't consult appearances as strictly. Why should I desire to make little Lily unhappy for nothing? whereas, if I keep Clarence under my own hand, I can stop him, dieu merci, when he goes too fast, and can always prevent his distressing her by running after er other bright eyes; for, so sure as there are bright eyes, Clarence Tracy will pursue them." 
               This train of thought, which I have put into regular phrases, visited Angelica pretty often. It occupied her mind on her wedding-night; and it was this feeling, mixed with a sort of feminine revenge, to convince Lily in the future of how truly she judged, that induced that conversation in the piazza. A double motive-a treble motive-to assist Clarence in his wooing, to attach him to herself, and to let Lily perceive, some half dozen years after, that "Angel was right." 
               On the Continent she met Clarence twice; they resumed the old manner, talked in the old way; she riveted her chains instead of loosening them, and continued her half-playful, half-serious correspondence with him. 
               But when she received his last letter, there was such a tone of mock admiration that she quickly felt the change, and let him enjoy a touch of cool dignity and matronly indifference, to teach him a lesson; moreover, Lily had really charmed her. It was genuine admiration that Angel now felt for her cousin. Their styles were so different, they could never clash; she had the love for her that she might feel for a beautiful flower, an exquisite statue, a rare painting. She liked to look at her, and to have people acknowledge that a "Southern cousin" was a "joy forever." Angel would have given up any thing to Lily except-her admirers. 
               She poured out her praise of Lily to Clarence with all the nonchalance for the effect it might produce on his feelings for Mrs. Langdon that she would have felt had she described to him a heroine in a novel. 
               But when he arrived, and, on their first meeting, not content with giving his first look to Lily, he continued to treat her as his first object, Angel inwardly vowed to resume her sway, and to prove herself a match for her fickle adorer. In speaking of Angelica I give you a clew to Clarence, for they were so alike in many points that the only surprising thing was that they never knew it. 
               From a child, Clarence Tracy had marked out his line of life; to keep his own counsel, to rise on the backs of his friends, to flirt with little girls, to make a great parade of sincerity, and to bear in mind that there was only one creature living who needed, merited, and demanded his sole care and attention-Clarence Tracy! His sister Nora idolized him. From the time that she could first thread a needle, her idea was to hem handkerchiefs and make shirts for Clarence. Later, when she knew Lily, Clarence must enjoy the same privilege; and when it was whispered about among the girls that Lily Vere, with all her quiet looks, was a great heiress, Nora's head formed her first and last scheme, which she scarcely acknowledged to herself. 
               Clarence liked Lily very much. Her gravity, her modest ways, her submission to those she thought wiser, quite impressed him. He was yet very young. As Angel said to Lily, "It was only the germ." But soon he learned to feel his power over Lily, and to give her, in place of an anxious wish to please her, a grand bashaw attention, and he looked down upon her sweet ignorance with superior eyes. Then she made rapid progress under his tuition, and he came to regard her as a possession of his own, and to treat her accordingly. She was almost as deferential to him as Nora, except when he did what she thought wrong, but that was so infrequent. 
                
               He was too sure of her friendship and devotion. It did not excite him. He began to think her insensible; she was so still; and with that delicious boy-tyranny which so early betrays itself, he liked to show his command over her, and the more she yielded, the less impression her yielding made, and the less he valued it. But still he was tender of her and kind to her; his behavior was not displeasing to her eyes, for she considered his reproofs as marks of his interest, such as he showed Nora. 
               On his final return from college, he was more struck than formerly with Lily's prettiness and gentle ways; he had learned the full weight of "plenty of money;" and though even to himself he did not say "I'll marry Lily Vere for her plantations," still his boyish mind took in the idea, and with greater deference he made his advances to his sister's friend. 
               He was the oldest of a group of boys at Chicora that spring. Angelica singled him out; he was flattered beyond measure. She made him read to her, she talked nonsense to him, and enjoyed his nonsense in return. She scarcely understood then her own influence; for, though he was by no means the first youth whom she had captivated, she was the first woman (I do not count college belles) who had made his pulses beat. 
               Skillfully she twined her chains about him, and, with all his cleverness, all his knowledge of her cold calculations which instinct gave him, he could not throw off her tightened and tightening clasp. 
               He forgot Lily, and became a mere puppet in Angel's hands. She pulled the wires; he fancied that he was a free agent, whereas he only followed out her plans. He thought she admired, whereas she commanded manded; and, happy in her languishing looks, he moved hither and thither with a vague idea that she must love him, or why should she trouble herself about him. At any rate, she herself said, "Marry Lily!" so he would; and as for the future-" oh, hang the future!" 
               When he was at Heidelberg, away from home, and one of Lily's pretty letters would come sliding in with its fresh, innocent tone, he would think that he really loved the writer, and that she was indeed a treasure. But then a long, narrow envelope, with its uncompromising seal, "Je veux," would fall into his hands, redolent of marchale, recalling by its lingering perfume the very aspect of Angel, and it would be so spirituelle or so sarcastic, with only a word here and there which meant "something," that he would muse over it, and try to divine a hidden thought, and begin to dream about "those eyes," till Lily's little letter would fade in the distance, and be quite forgotten. 
               I might prose on for pages, when two lines would amply give the word of this enigma. 
               Lily was the speculation ventured, pocketed, and laid aside for future use. Angel was the speculation yet to be decided, which kept the gambler on the alert, and warmed and cooled him with alternate fits of hope and doubt. 
               But there was about Lily, as she dawned upon him in her pure loveliness, rising from her chair in that dingy box, a certain halo of almost forgotten boyish dreams, a certain reminiscence of German romance, which was in very truth a foundation for his ardent welcome; and when Angel met him with her amused smile, the recollection of her last letter, and the desire to pique her, aided fully in producing a devotion and singleness of purpose, which caused a like indifference on the side of the really indifferent one, so that Clarence went home to bed dwelling on Lily's beauty, and wondering whether Angel was absolutely as careless as she looked. 
               I do not pretend to write "thrilling romances," with sudden surprises, mysterious secrets, and dark horrors, nor even multitudinous accidents which bring the strangest things to light. Mine is simply a little tale which seeks neither to dazzle nor to terrify. I try to write of human nature as it passes daily beneath our windows, or throbs beside our own hearts. Many will call me "tame," and others will cry "unnatural." It may possibly be both. I only do my best, and write according to my knowledge and convictions. 
               I once had the honor of being in company with the greatest living novelist-of course, I allude to Mr. Thackeray-and a lady, celebrated for her wit and beauty, said to him, "I detest your books, they are so false. Why should you always make vice flourish and virtue go to the wall? If one reads you believingly, one would doubt that there exists upon this earth a really good man or woman, unless he or she chances to be an utter simpleton or poke. I close your books always with a dreary feeling. Every thing is hollow, hypocritical, selfish. The world is bad enough, truly; why make it worse?" 
               "My dear madam," answered Mr. Thackeray, spreading out his hands, which some Washington belle had told him "looked so nice and English, with their clean nails," "my dear madam, I write as my eyes see. If I were to invent human nature, depend upon it I should make even stranger pictures. It is not my fault if life appears to me as I show it. I have no imagination-I only copy." 
                
               From my corner I listened to the great man, drank in his words, and added my humble approbation and conviction. 
               It seems quite an act of temerity to mention this world-known name, and to call the attention of a reader to possible comparisons between the author of Vanity Fair and the author of the Busy Moments of an Idle Woman. But my admiration for him is so unqualified, so sincere, that I feel as if his name might add a dignity without instituting a comparison; and no one, I trust, will accuse me of conceit or imitation when I suggest that, following at great distance the example of this discriminating writer, I endeavor not "to invent a new human nature," but to paint the thing itself-to sink a shaft in the breast of my neighbor, and to draw thence a living stream-to eschew portraits, but to make "fancy sketches" life-like enough to induce people to say, "Ah! that is meant for so and so." 
               I take no interest in those delightful books which are composed of alternate layers of devils and angels, like the hands of boys and girls laid upon a table for the game of "head and cheese"-now angel, now devil has the best of it, and the "upper hand rules." I do not believe in sudden reformations, where the "devil" of the piece is made instantly good by the death of the "angel," or by his marriage with her, and turns as quickly as you turn the leaf into an excellent and virtuous character, just as if excellence was a coat or gown, and virtue a cap or bonnet, which you purchase or have presented to you, and wear comfortably ever after. 
               I believe that every living creature is susceptible of some kind impulse, and liable to some wicked thought or action. Opportunity is more a leading spirit than even education. We must all pray against temptation, dread the workings of selfishness, and try to do our best. If we undertake to write novels, bear this in mind, that heroes and heroines of the present day must act like men and women of the present day, or else they are mere Marionnettes, and show their rags and wood-work instead of their flesh and blood. 
               Angelica seems wicked almost without a reason, but she had never checked her desire for indiscriminate conquest, and for power over those within her immediate circle. She was not positively unkind; after acknowledging her supremacy, you might be as happy as you could. Clarence was vain, but doubtful; ambitious, but indolent; clever, but vacillating; eager for men's praise, but fonder of women's smiles; bent upon conquering them, but always ending in being by them conquered. With decided talent, he frittered it away; always intended to do something, but never did. And, to sum up his character, he was as uncertain as a coquettish woman, for the thing he held was less valuable in his eyes than that which he could not reach. 
               I have prosed enough. Let us return to my sweet Lily, who has no shield to oppose to scheming heads and hoary hearts but her good sense, the atom of Scottish shrewdness that she inherited from her father, and an instinct which oftentimes rightly guided the glance of her blue eyes. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               "AND when do you go home?" inquired William Clarendon, smoothing down Alicia's already smooth hair, and looking admiringly in her face. 
               It was the morning after their arrival, and they were all sitting in Angelica's "sulkery," which barely held the party. It was the tiniest place imaginable, hung with a thick striped silk of pink and fawn color, the ceiling stuffed and bombe to look like a tent, with a pointed drapery below the cornice around the walls. A long divan and cushions filled one side opposite the windows, across which and the solitary door there ran, on rings, fluted curtains, so that, when drawn at night, there appeared neither entrance nor exit. The carved white mantle-piece was held up by dancing Floras, who balanced on the tips of their slender fingers the low, broad shelf, covered with deep pink velvet, on which stood two exquisite statuettes-one of Siluria, the other of Bacchus and Ino. Between them, in an elaborately gilded and jeweled frame, arrayed like an easel, was one of David's finest miniatures, a half-length of Angelica herself, looking like an empress in love, with a bouquet lying in her lap, and from the hand which languidly hung over the console beside her drooped a half-opened letter, while her eyes gazed dreamily ahead. 
               She seemed to reign supremely if indolently, and to be the ruling genius of her dominions. Two huge China vases, enameled with birds, flowers, and Cupids, occupied either side of the chimney. Through the pierced holes in the bottom of one came the hot air which warmed the room; into the other, Angelica threw the invitations,billets d'occasion, and et ceteras which daily beset her path. 
               In each of the corners encoignures mounted from the floor to the ceiling, and on the tapering shelves of two of them beautiful Svres flower-pots held fragrant exotics, which were renewed whenever the close and perfumed atmosphere caused them to fade; on the other two were piled such profuse treasures of rococo trifles that Alicia declared she had not yet been able to see and admire them all. 
               Each chair was a "possession," from the originality and costliness of its design and build; and now seated in the most luxurious of them, a perfect lounge, covered with satin and needle-work, was Angelica, folded in her dressing-gown, and wearing a cap, collar, sleeves, and petticoat of fabulously fine broderie-Anglaise.
                
               There were but three other chairs: one, of polished satin-wood inlaid with nacre, like an old-fashioned work-box, with a pale blue velvet lining, Lily occupied, looking in her white Cashmere morning-dress like a pearl in its shell. 
               Another, of fine scarlet morocco stamped in gold, showed off as a rich background the sunny beauty of Alicia, while the last, of heavily-carved ivory, cushioned with amber-colored damask, was claimed by Clarence, and the whole sofa and its countless pillows was given up to Willie, who had drawn Alicia's chair near him. 
               "And when do you go home, darling?" 
               "That depended upon papa's coming; but now I fancy he will shirk the trouble, and trust us with you." 
               "Don't speak of going home," said Angelica. "Where is the use of it? Charleston is the dearest place to love at a distance." 
                
               "Oh, Angel!" cried Lily, "it is a place to live and to die in. I like to visit other cities, but for a home, give me Charleston." 
               Angelica slightly applauded with a gentle beating together of her hands. 
               "Bravo, Lily! your color fairly mounts. I agree warmly with one portion of your praise. It is indeed a place to die in, for I know no other which one could leave with fewer regrets." 
               Alicia and the young men laughed, while Lily shook her head. 
               "Don't you really like your native place?" 
               "Its bricks and mortar, its trees and stones, and, more than all, its wood-work? y-e-s, after a fashion; but its people? no. They are better abroad than they are at home. I recollect often being struck by the agreeability of my townsmen and women when once you get them over that impracticable bar of our harbor. Whether it be that the shallowness of the channel reacts upon their feelings, but they never unbend till they have cleared it. Then, judging them by an ordinary standard, they are sociable, conversible, human. You say reproachfully, 'The so and so's are really nice people; I must cultivate this pleasant acquaintance.' You return home; that hateful bar dips again, and you find your charming foreign friends ossified again." 
               "But one thing is certain, Mrs. Langdon," said Clarence, withdrawing his eyes from Lily's face; "they are unlike most stiff people in one respect: they are as eager to claim their concitoyens out of the city as they are shy in it. I asked a forlorn party once in Paris, whom I met dolefully sight-seeing, if they were enjoying their trip. 'Oh no,' they said; 'there is not a Charlestonian at an hotel.' Again, I put the same question to another party. 'Indeed, yes,' was answered with alacrity; 'there are at least twenty Charlestonians in our house.' Now I knew that at home neither of these families cared to see twenty people more than twice in a year, and on both these occasions they must be twenty selected and select individuals." 
               "Yes, they are deliciously inconsistent. They fold you to their hearts in New York, and scarcely bow in Charleston." 
               "But," pursued Clarence, who enjoyed differing a little from the last speaker, "they are high-toned, chivalric-" 
               "Mercy! mercy!" cried Angel, "spare me! I agree. I grant them every thing, and they may take the rest. They don't boast, they don't parade-" 
               "Oh, Angel!" that was Lily, of course. 
               "The women are not old-fashioned, dowdy, nor contracted in mind and body-" 
               "Treason!" exclaimed Willie; "they would not appreciate this pretty room, perhaps?" 
               "Indeed they should," said Angel, yawning after her graceful vehemence, and sending back her chair to a lower angle by a touch upon a secret spring. "Indeed they should, for M. de Trvillier says, alluding to its only door, that, after all, 'Ce ne peut tre qu'un boudoir Americain.'" 
               "Apropos of American productions: there was such a funny little scene this morning in the hotel parlor, while Clarendon was swearing up stairs at a tight pair of boots. A prim little woman was being evidently bored by a tall, deaf old fellow, who was asking questions without number. She unrolled a package of slippers, and began looking over them. 'Are those Europee-an?' he asked. 'No, sir, Ammery-can,' she answered, without a smile, though she saw me laugh out. Lily, I have brought you a pair of slippers: by the way, here they are; they were at the top of one of my trunks, and actually we got our luggage this morning." 
               "I believe Clarence made up that slipper story," said Willie, "to introduce his gift with becoming nonchalance. They are Oriental, Lily; and here is my offering, which I ought to have prefaced with some anecdote about a fair girl dying of a broken heart." 
               Lily received with a bright blush the fairy slippers, which were worked with white lilies in seed pearl, and extended her hand for a little box which Willie gave her. 
               "Try the slippers first," said Willie; "let us set to work leisurely." 
               "I fear they are too small," said Lily, putting up her foot. 
               They were tight. 
               "I must give them to Angel," said Lily, sorrowfully, "unless I can keep them without wearing them." 
               Angel sat up and took the slipper, which slid on like the soulier vert upon Cinderella. 
               "You were too complimentary to my foot, Clarence. You forgot that I am only half a Purvis. You must have been thinking of Angel." 
               "She has never shown you her foot, then," said Willie, laughing, while Mrs. Langdon's satirical smile played around her lips as she turned the dainty slipper from side to side. "You can never step into Angel's shoes, Lily, though she may into yours." 
               Lily shuddered involuntarily, and Clarence knelt to remove the slipper. As he did so, Angel said, 
                
               "Have you never acknowledged the supremacy of the Pope?" and she thrust toward him, with a playful gesture, the high-arched instep, with its lofty curve, as if born to plant itself triumphantly. 
               "I am willing to do homage to the emblem of purity, the immaculate Lily," said Clarence, gravely, and he touched with his lips the embroidery of the slipper. 
               "Pshaw!" said Angel, dropping the pretty thing from her foot; "I have stretched it now, dear; you can wear it. There is very little difference in the size of your foot and mine; one shoe would do for either of us." 
               Sure enough, it was comfortable now, and Lily looked at her new property with delighted eyes. 
               "Let us see the contents of Willie's box," said Alicia, with a slight inflection of pique; and at that instant a footman brought in a package, which he said had come from the hotel, directed to Mr. Tracy. 
               "It was time," exclaimed Willie, "for I think Lily's presents were not giving satisfaction to all the company-eh, puss!" 
               Lily produced a garnet heart, through which was thrust a golden arrow, and a Venetian chain studded with garnets fastened it around the throat or upon the arm. 
               "How very pretty!" exclaimed Alicia; and, although she was presented with a bracelet, and a set of pink coral by her brother, and a fan was offered by Clarence, with any number of bergers and bergres in hoops and powdered hair, still she looked wistfully at Lily's trinket. 
               "I have lots of flowers and furbelows for you, petite sur, in the depths of some great boxes," said Willie, who noticed that Alicia was not satisfied. 
               Presently Lily perceived it, and guessed rightly. 
               "This heart is too bloodthirsty for me, Willie. What should I do playing off tricks with 'daggered hearts?' Alice, would you like to exchange if Willie permits it?" 
               Alicia's eyes sparkled. 
               "If you wish it. It is all the same. Willie's memory and kindness will be just as well treasured. Take my bracelet;" and she drew her chair forward, turning the back of it upon Clarence and Angel, while she and Lily called upon Willie to agree, and to help them decide. 
               While they were clasping the turquoise bracelet on Lily's arm, where it looked so pretty that Alicia's grasping propensity caused her almost to regret the exchange, Clarence had unfolded another parcel, and brought to light a paper-cutter, which he passed over to Angel, bending upon her one of his most concentrated glances. 
               It was of ivory, and the centre of the blade was painted delicately in water-colors, representing a moonlit river, with a boat gliding upon its waters, containing, of course, a sentimental couple. The handle was formed of a woman's hand grasping a tiny globe. 
               Angel smiled, and Clarence begged her acceptance of it. She expressed her thanks, and, without a word more, placed it upon the table. 
               "I fancy a likeness existing-" 
               "To me, in that blue-gowned female?" said Angel, without affectation. "Merci du compliment!" 
               "More in the allegorical hand," said Clarence. "Small as it is, it holds the whole world in check." 
               "My hand deals little in checks," said Mrs. Langdon. "Lily's will soon be more in that line." 
               "You have learned to pun." 
               "So feebly." 
                
               "With true French principle, it is the hand of a femme marie which is symbolized. It is a left hand, and a wedding ring is faintly marked upon the third finger." 
               "Yes," said Angel, indifferently. "Mr. Clarendon told me, or Lily, or perhaps it was Alicia, that you sing, Mr. Tracy. Young ladies, can not we persuade Mr. Tracy to sing for us?" and she leaned forward and over the back of Alicia's chair with such an evident determination to encourage no tte--ttes, that Clarence bit his lips, while the girls eagerly seconded the request. 
               Clarence yielded, and, turning to a small cabinet piano which was niched into the wall, he struck a few bars, saying, 
               "I have no voice for operatic music. I do not distress even myself with such attempts. Here is a little ballad which may please you;" and he began a rather monotonous air, to which were set these words, written by I know not whom. 
                      
                        "Thou hast, left me to my sorrow, 
                        And withdrawn thy love from me; 
                        Yet my memory still must borrow 
                        All its dearest thoughts from thee. 
                        Though I know that I am fading 
                        'Neath a cold world's bitter blast, 
                        And they tell me 'tis degrading, 
                        Yet I love thee to the last. 
                     
                      
                        "Where thy false vows first were plighted 
                        'Twere needless now to tell; 
                        How this constant heart was slighted, 
                        Thou canst still remember well. 
                        But I mean not to upbraid thee- 
                        May'st thou never feel the smart 
                        When some loved one has bereft thee 
                        Of thy foolish, doting heart. 
                     
                     
                      
                        "On thy path of pleasure hieing, 
                        When joy brightens in thine eye, 
                        May no thought of him now dying 
                        Wake thy bosom's faintest sigh. 
                        But should sorrow e'er o'ertake thee, 
                        And thy dreams of pleasure flee- 
                        When at night thy griefs awake thee, 
                        Think of those thou gav'st to me." 
                     
                  
                
               The spirit of vanity was stirred up within his breast, and, forgetful of Lily, he pursued recklessly for the moment the sneering Angel. His whole character revealed itself in that instant-a worthless object, which resisted him, outvalued the richest prize which was truly his own. His voice was not powerful nor very sweet, but he sang with expression and feeling-too much feeling; for, as he deeply murmured, 
                      
                        "When at night thy griefs awake thee, 
                        Think of those thou gav'st to me," 
                     
                   the utter abandonment of his reason to his sorrow (seemingly), and the glance he gave Angel, aroused Lily. 
               She turned pale, and looked from the one to the other with a quick, searching gleam; then her lids fell over her eyes, and a shadow darkened her brow. 
               There was a pause as Tracy finished, and Alicia was the first to thank him, and to compliment him on his performance. 
               Angel played with her paper-knife, and assented to Alicia's remarks. 
               "And you, Lily?" he said, turning toward her. 
               "I am but an indifferent musician," she answered, coldly. "Alicia's praise is far more important than mine;" and she rose and leaned her elbow upon the mantle-piece, gazing down into the tiny, sparkling little wood-fire. 
               "No one has seen my present," said Angel. 
                
               Alicia admired it, and touching with its sharp point Lily's hand which hung beside her, 
               "Look, Lil," she said. 
               It was not calculated to allay Lily's fears. She instantly recognized the intended allusion, and, to Clarence's surprise, who had so completely satisfied himself of her want of perception that he almost fancied her blind, she said, with quivering lips, 
               "This is a memento of the May-party. Where are the Hatton roses that you brought home that evening after your moonlight row?" 
               "Is that the intention? What a pretty compliment to my beaux jours de jeunesse, Mr. Tracy," said Angel, carelessly. "It is a dear little toy. The hand is like yours, Lily." 
               "By the way, Lily, I knew your hand last night before I knew you," said Clarence, approaching her with his most insinuating countenance: "it has changed very little." 
               "Lily's hand is perfect," remarked Mrs. Langdon. "I am rather proud of my own," holding out a soft, perfumed, dainty cluster of taper fingers, "but I yield to her." 
               Thence ensued a discussion on hands-the true proportions, the relative merits, the requisite beauties, which was kept up by Angel, Alicia, and Mr. Tracy, while Lily was silent, and Willie occasionally put in. 
               At length the latter said, 
               "But, after all, Clarence, there is one hand you prefer to all others-a hand at cards." 
               Lily turned quickly and fixed her eyes intently upon Clarence's face, where the blood was rapidly mounting. 
               "Oh! that was long ago," he said; "now I care very little for cards, except in a friendly game." 
                
               "Was that a friendly game on board ship?" began Willie, laughing mischievously. 
               "What a tell-tale!" exclaimed Angel, coming to the rescue. "We shall all be afraid of you, Mr. Clarendon." 
               "Mr. Clarendon!" repeated Willie; "this is the second time you have called me so formally. I used always to be 'Willie' for Miss Angel Purvis. I have a great fancy for hearing that soft dissyllable from you." 
               "Willie, then, will you be kind enough to tell me the hour of this bright day?" she said, with her sweetest intonation. "That valuable time-piece in the drawing-room is sufficiently trustworthy for my purposes, but should you have 'a man of business' to meet in Wall Street, or a note in bank to pay up, don't risk your credit upon it." 
               It was nearly two o'clock, so Angel lazily pronounced herself in great haste. 
               "You two gentlemen will of course dine with us. I heard Mr. Langdon naming six o'clock to you as our dinner hour. Just ourselves, of course-perhaps with the addition of poor Cecilia, of whom I am now going in search." 
               "By the way, how is she?" inquired Clarence, who seemed anxious to break his own awkward silence. 
               "Did she not marry abroad?" asked Willie. 
               "She did; and a miserable business she made of it. This Count Ravel de Montanvert is a little insignificant creature, with red eyes and a red beard, not to speak of a red nose-every thing, in fact-" 
               "But read-y money?" 
               "Just so; but Cecilia had a rage for titles, like all her countrywomen-had dreams of a coronet and countess-ship ess-ship, and, being of mature age, in spite of her brother's advice she married this Comte-de la Bohme, and wrote herself comtesse, after getting up a trousseau fit for a princess. We left her in Paris, looking as if the gilt had been a little washed from her spouse's coronet, and she very soon was obliged to sell out stock to pay his gambling debts. He had told her that he owned silver mines in Peru, diamond drippings in Brazil, and, I suppose, malachite diggings in the Ural Mountains, but somehow the supplies from these rich store-houses never came to hand, and, rather weary of him, she wandered back home a month ago with a feeble little baby, as red-eyed as its aristocratic papa, and who, I fear, will never be wiser than its clever mamma." 
               "Poor thing!" 
               "I have no patience with her. She might have married very well, or, marrying badly, she might have made the best of it; but she allowed this little animal to involve her fortune, and to ill use her, and then she spends her time pining or else boasting. She has herself comtessed to distraction, but abuses the comte as a rascal of the first magnitude-for his size. But what could she expect from a gambler?" 
               Lily sighed heavily. 
               "I have promised to take her to my dress-maker this morning. My dear girls, you will walk, you said;" and, bowing with her own especial grace, Angel swept away with her magnificent "action" and her voluminous skirts. 
               "Trojan women trailing their long shawls," repeated Willie, following her with admiring looks. "See here, Alicia, doesn't she do a little of this?" and he touched his cheek as if painting it. 
                
               "For shame!" ejaculated his sister; "wait till you see Cecilia de Montanvert, and then you will know what rouge is laid upon bare bones." 
               "Mrs. Langdon is handsomer than ever; there is no doubt about that. But you are all improved. Even you, puss, are very nearly a beauty," and he passed his arm affectionately around her as they left the boudoir. 
               Meanwhile, Clarence was determined to spring the mine or to take the castle. 
               "Lily," he said, softly, when Angel left the room, "you are angry." 
               "Not angry, but mortified and fearful." 
               "Great heaven! about what? I did play cards on board ship; but, unless I had wished to make myself conspicuous and priggish, I could not have done 
                     othwise
                     otherwise
                  . Would you really desire that I should give up an occasional game of whist because I lost a couple of hundred dollars six months ago at cards? Whatever you wish seriously, Lily, I would promise to do." 
               "You promised me then, when by a strange accident I heard of this thing, never to play for money. I felt as if it had been providential that you inclosed carelessly within the envelope of my letter the note you had written to send your creditor. It runs in your family, Clarence. Horse-racing, betting, card-playing in a gentlemanly way, have, through succeeding generations, helped to dissipate the originally fine fortune of the Tracys. I did not ask a promise, but I thought you implied one." 
               Clarence's face assumed a mournful look, but within him a kind of suppressed anger seemed to whisper, 
               "My canny Scottish fiance trembles for her father's hoards. Lily," he said, aloud, "this is a sad business-but you must not think that I allude to my gambling propensities" (with a bitter smile); "I mean that we should so soon fall out. I am not given to cards or bets. I can not with safety promise to give them up entirely, but I shall only repeat that you may trust me. Your wish would be always stronger than any oath made in my own name. Do you doubt me, Lily? By heaven! if you knew-if you could guess the immense power you have over me, you would be tempted to act the tyrant; for slaves make tyrants, and I am the slave, dearest, of your lightest thought. Wield your influence with care, my own sweet Lily!" 
               He took her hand, and poured out his eloquent vindication. The time had come which Angelica had predicted: it was no longer the timid, blushing girl who accepted his decisions. He divined the kindly, resolute young woman, who steadily watched him, and sought to read him before she gave up her point. A word now was not sufficient to convince her. She was not a child except in her child-like innocence. Give her a clew, and she was capable of following it. This was a prize to strive for. He might chafe under the unwavering gaze, but he could not despise the loving dupe she once was. He petted, but it was an occasion for him "to air his vocabulary," and to bring the machinery of his stage-tricks to the foot-lights, and there conceal wires and trap-doors. 
               It was troublesome, but exciting; for, abandoning presently her first attack, Lily calmly spoke of the evident understanding between Angel and himself-spoke calmly, gravely, without tears, without reproaches, without iterations or repetitions. 
               He respected her; he admired her; he began to love her. 
                
               She was as firm as if she had been cold, though her hands trembled, and her white cheeks sometimes flushed, and her voice faltered once. 
               "This is not a sudden notion, Clarence; I have had it before. Madame de Montanvert hinted one day before me at Angel, and I fancied her words then the peevish innuendoes of a foolish woman; afterward little circumstances almost forgotten rose up; but this morning a light seemed to break in upon me. You love me as a sister: take a sister's advice." 
               "As a sister!" cried Clarence, and he hastily brushed his handkerchief across his eyes; "never." 
               They talked long and earnestly, and fierce were the protestations of the gentleman as gradually the girl's own heart helped to plead his cause. 
               Of course, she forgave him; but her suspicions were aroused, and, as they finally rejoined Willie in the farthest drawing-room, where Alicia, with her usual tact, had dragged him off, he said to himself, deep in his own breast, and wonderingly, 
               "Take care! I may yet lose her." 
               But still, with minute observance of outward honorable punctilio, Clarence did not seek to bind her by any promise yet. He must wait till she was beneath her guardian's roof, and under his immediate protection. The world should never say that he had gained the heiress's hand by a clandestine engagement, unsuspected by Mr. Clarendon. He knew that she applauded his delicacy, and that she delighted in attention to points of etiquette such as this. 
               He was charmed with her. Long and intimately as he had known her, this was a new and startling phase of character. It might grow very troublesome; but he felt all the delight of a game to play-a race to run- and it was with a feeling of excited interest that he had never experienced before in her society that Clarence left that house, after they had all decided that it was too late for their intended walk. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               HOW grand Mrs. Langdon looked at the head of her dinner-table! 
               Owing to the party at which they were to appear that evening, all the ladies were in full dress, and around the sumptuously-served board, and beneath the blaze of the chandelier, whose light was tempered by shades of thick ground glass, they formed a charming group. 
               Angelica had assumed for this occasion her most dignified and stately aspect. In a dress of orange-colored moire antique, with a pattern of great roses and cactuses tied together with a loop of gold ribbon running over it, and made with the square front and half-high corsage of our grandmothers, she looked as if she had just stepped from some old picture, particularly as the sleeves and neck were ornamented with lace of wonderful richness, and around her throat was tightly clasped a single row of rubies matching the drops in her ears. 
               Nothing could be finer than the mode in which Angelica's head was placed upon her shoulders. She and Lily equally possessed this distinctive and rare charm. It gives a character to the plainest features, and elevates the commonest figure; but whereas in Lily it was only graceful and high-bred, in Angel it was predominating and imposing. It blended in Lily's tout
                   
                  ensemble; it was perfectly distinguishable in Angel's carriage, and immediately called your attention. She had a way of throwing back her head, and toying with the drooping ornaments that usually adorned her coiffure, which was both easy and haughty; or else, while speaking, she would fix her eyes upon her companion, and smooth over and over the lustrous blackness of her bandeaux, as if through careless thought, while in reality she was considering how pretty must be her white fingers threading these dark masses. Today, long lappets of lace fell from her braids upon her shoulders, and as she would twine the gossamer costliness about her hand, the jeweled butterfly, which, mounted on great pins, fastened her head-dress, shook, and trembled, and fluttered like a living thing. I do not know if there was truth in William Clarendon's conjecture, but certainly the sallowness of her cheek had given place to a faint color, which was infinitely becoming, while, though she could not compare in fairness with Lily, there was nothing disagreeable in the dead whiteness which alone remained of her once yellow tinge. 
               There was a mixture of stateliness and languor about Angelica, a softness in her eyes, and a haughtiness around her mouth, which constituted her charm. Every chair or seat which she occupied became a throne for an enamored Eastern princess. 
               She looked passion, and commanded obedience. Compare her now with Lily, and see how possible it was for a man to hesitate in outward admiration between them. The one seemed made up of light and purity, while the other was dark, designing, distracting. 
               Both were calm, and had great repose of manner. Both were grave, both smiled more than they laughed, and neither of them were "talking women." And yet, with these points of resemblance, with a cast of features singularly alike, they were as different as night and morning. So much does mind influence matter. 
               Clarence Tracy sat on the right of his hostess, and Lily beside him; opposite to them was the Countess de Montanvert, who had got herself up with tremendous trouble. 
               Poor Cecilia! her bones were bared till you could count the vertebr in her back, que c'tait une douleur  voir. Dark lines were under her eyes which rouge could not conceal; the lids were stenciled, pearl-powder glistened on the forehead, the eyebrows were carefully penciled, and countless yards of curviline swathed her lower limbs. 
               She was fidgety, rattling, full of minauderies, imbibed quantities of Champagne frapp, made eyes at William Clarendon, and sported a handkerchief with "application" a quarter of a yard deep around it, and a two-inch-square centre, just large enough to hold the coronet and the initials. Somehow the coronet corner always was uppermost. 
               Presently, however, she deserted William, and directed her fire toward Clarence. As it had often happened before, Willie's beauty stood no chance against Clarence's fascinating manner. 
               Tracy was so overflowing with kindness to all woman-kind that he never suffered any of the softer sex to be uncognizant of his claims upon their attention. He never wished them to lose the opportunity of appreciating him, provided he considered them worthy of the privilege; and by a few adroit remarks about Paris, and a certain air as of free-masonry existing between them, touching society of la haute vole, he won Madame de Montanvert's delighted acquiescence and support. 
               She leaned eagerly across the table, shrugging her poor, thin shoulders, and flashing her black eyes, talking rapidly with an accent and tongue becoming more French at every sentence. 
               "You know Egbert de Montmartre? Quelle joie! et cette chre petite Madame de Havrecourt? It is a liaison qui dure depuis des annes. Sont-ils heureux! Why do we never see such things in this country?" 
               "Cecilia!" cried her brother, "how can you talk so foolishly? You don't think of what you are saying. Pray, my dear, speak both English and sense." 
               "Archibald is really 'moyen-age' in his notions," said Madame de Montanvert, laughing affectedly; "and yet il sent son Etats-Unis d'une liene." 
               Mr. Langdon chose to take the "moyen-age" literally, and answered with some asperity, 
               "Let us say nothing about ages, Cecilia. You are only five years behind me." 
               "Years!" repeated Clarence, coming to the rescue; "who talks now of years? Alphonse Karr has decided, with all the force of his wit, that 'years'-a certain number of months and days elapsed-go for nothing. Looks and actions alone proclaim youth or age. A woman of twenty, faded and dull, must always be older than one of forty bien conserve and charming. So, ladies, what a chance for all of you who look toward forty as a bourne beyond counting; and yet at forty you will still plead youth to your budding neighbor if she has not the genius to faire valoir her scanty but withering summers." 
               "Did you ever see Alphonse Karr abroad?" asked Mr. Langdon. 
                
               "I never did; but I did see de Balzac, and Dumas, and Eugne Sue." 
               "I desired very much to meet M. de Balzac," Angel went on; "and I actually invited Mr. Langdon to procure that pleasure for me, but he seemed to think I might as well request him to move heaven and earth for no purpose but to introduce into our lodgings a wild hyena." 
               "Much more like a very tame elephant was the deceased lion. M. de Balzac was the most ungainly, huge mass! The advocate and defamer of pretty women was not a dangerous man in his latter years, even to the grateful hearts of des 'femmes de trente ans.'" 
               "How did you manage to get on so well in French society too?" inquired Madame de Montanvert; "they are so exclusive." 
               "I was fortunate enough to render a service to a cadet of a noble family at Baden-Baden," answered Clarence, with an uneasy blush, "and when I went to Paris last winter for six weeks, after you left," turning toward Mrs. Langdon, "he found me out, and overwhelmed me with civilities, invitations, and kindness." 
               "Where was I then?" asked Cecilia. "Oh yes, I was in all the horrors-faisant mes couches. As some woman says in some novel, it is indeed un chien de mtier." 
               Mr. Langdon groaned at this new demonstration of his sister's foreign manners, and William Clarendon said, 
               "How did you get over Dumas's kinky head?" 
               "I contented myself with thinking that I was not in Carolina. Branger is a fine old fellow. I succeeded in seeing him by accident and a little strategy." 
               "Ah! if you have recently seen Branger, I shall introduce you to-night to a gentleman who, on learning this, will, I am sure, take you to his arms en plein salon," remarked Angel. "He has but one French passion, but that absorbs his being. He passes his time translating Branger, and, while he affiches the fiercest morality and prudery, no author is so simple, so whole, so perfect in his eyes as the laudator of Lisette. He will bore you to death with abuse of French men, French women, French nature, French poetry, French morals, French manners. The men are disgusting, the women devergondes. He has no patience with them-no admiration for them. They are coarse, they are heartless, they are unbearable. But Branger! he is strong, he is pure, he is honest; and my discriminating acquaintance labors over his stanzas with a zeal, an energy, a love which he might as well bestow elsewhere." 
               "Where?" asked Mr. Langdon, who only spoke to ask questions or to reprove. 
               "Eh? any where," answered Angel, rising, with a half smile, and stepping back with nonchalant dignity, to make way for her lady-guests as they left the room together. 
               Tracy was close upon their skirts, and coffee was served as they entered the drawing-room. Madame de Montanvert helped herself to six lumps of sugar, which caused her tiny Svres cup to overflow, and began feeding Marquise with these impromptu Mocha-drops, discoursing most voluble nonsense. 
               "Where did you get your cook, Angel? I have given up in despair. These terrible Irlandaises are utterly incapable. One was recommended to me as a first-rate cook, and I ordered the first day des petits canetons canaris aux jeunes lgumes glaces, with a 
                  Bavaroise mousseuse  l' Anana, and she made me repeat the order three times, and then flounced off, telling me she had not come there 'to be made game of.' I assured her that canetons were not game; they were the tame ducks hatched by geese, only very small; but she would not stay to listen. Now your cailles bardes aux feuilles de vigne and your grenadins de veau aux petits pois were delicious. I can't say quite as much for your petits biscuits souffls  la crme. I am sure Marquise would not have touched them. N'est-ce pas une belle aux yeux dors? Angel, why don't you send Marquise to see Zora? Zora is so lonely; she had a great deal of society in Paris; but here I am afraid of permitting her to visit, the dogs are all so common. Mr. Tracy, do tell me if Marquise's eyes are not like Madame de Chateauper's?" 
               Clarence was talking to Lily, and he obeyed the summons with rather an ill grace, which, however, soon subsided into his usual suavity and gallantry of manner, and Cecilia immediately pinned him for a "chatter." 
               "Such eyes! Zora has beautiful eyes too, and sometimes she fixes them on me with so deep an expression, that, if she were not Zora, I might fancy that, in the transmigration of souls, the heart of some impassioned prince was beating beneath her long curls. But I suppose male souls always inhabit male bodies. Is it not so? I should like to think that Zora has a man's heart." 
               "How can you, Cecilia, be so exceedingly absurd?" asked Angel. 
               Willie Clarendon, who enjoyed fun beyond every other sensation, was charmed with the comtesse. 
               He did not like to make her exhibit before his host; but Mr. Langdon having remained in the dining-room for a smoke, Clarendon proceeded to draw her out. 
               In vain Lily shook her head disapprovingly; but Angel, lazily amused, listened with a glitter in her eye, and Alicia rather encouraged him. 
               It would be wearisome to detail poor Cecilia's torrent of folly. She hopped from subject to subject, with shrugs, and flutters, and glances, and smiles, fancying herself intensely Parisienne, while she was only lamentably foolish. 
               Once she made three of the party wince, however; for, not satisfied with Willie, she continued her hold upon Clarence by addressing him, no matter how abruptly, if he attempted to rise from beside her. Either she began some story about herself, or about some fancied Paris friend of his, whose recollections he might have escaped had he chosen to disavow their, his, or her acquaintance; but, with his usual vanity, Tracy was satisfied to be bored if he could produce an effect, and liked to be thought an habitu of many French houses where he had really been only a chance visitor. 
               He saw Lily watching him, and tried to glide away under cover of some outrageous compliment paid by William; but Cecilia broke out, 
               "As for compliments, it is my pleasure to make them, not to receive them. Mr. Tracy, I made you a very pretty compliment at Rome once. A lady-that Venetian Countess Balsacor-asked me one night who was the young gentleman in constant attendance upon Madame Langdon. 'Apparemment c'est le porte-queue de la chre belle-sur.' 'Vous prononcez mal, belle comtesse,' I replied; 'c'est le porte-cur.' Pretty, wasn't it?" 
               With an impatient exclamation, Tracy got up and approached Lily, who abruptly left the room, closing the door quietly in his face. 
               "It is time to start, for our soire is an early one," said Angelica. "Lily has already gone to smooth her ringlets. Can I offer you my mirror and Rosalie's services, Cecilia?" 
               Madame de Montanvert hesitated; but Clarence had moodily picked up a book, with an evident intention to say, and listen to, nothing farther; and that day's post had brought a letter for Miss Clarendon from home, whose contents she and Willie were now discussing, as it had to be answered by the morning's mail; consequently Cecilia, quite unaware of the mischief her "pretty compliment" had caused, thought she might as well examine into the state of the enameling on her features, and accepted the offer. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               MRS. GEORGE BERESFORD had determined to introduce a "new style" of parties. She had enjoyed "new style" dresses, and followed the lead in "new style" bonnets, but she would set a fashion of her own now, and have "conversation balls," that could incontestably be considered "new style;" so that when her rooms were full, and the rumor went around that there would not be a leg in motion except to walk about, a chorus of vituperations was raised by the dancers of "our set," and Alicia Clarendon was among the pouters. 
               "No music?" 
               "Conversation." 
               "Who'll make it?" 
               "What a take in!" 
               But the hostess glided about in a brocade so stiff that her tiny figure seemed lost in its ponderous plaits, and her spirituelle head rose above the triple ranges of ribbon, lace, and silk which composed her corsage like a brilliant blossom from the midst of a huge bed of verdure. 
               Her diamonds sparkled in their wheat-ear setting, and her wickedly bright blue eyes followed suit, while from the somewhat thin but very red lips flowed a stream of saucy sayings, which her admirers caught up and repeated with delight to those on the outside of her immediate circle. 
               Tremendous flirtations became the order of the night. Couples lounged in the conservatory-you "flushed" a "pair" in every nook-and really there ensued a low, murmuring hum of "conversation" that was quite marvelous. Mrs. Beresford labored assiduously. She gave the "ball" a roll whenever it flagged on its course; the buffet was stored with the choicest dainties; the big punch-bowl continued full, and all went merrily and most successfully. 
               It was not an easy thing. Constantly a dull silence would reign in one corner, and youthful heroes, teetering on their polka legs, found no words to express their want of ideas to their equally embarrassed partners. Quick as lightning, Mrs. Beresford would dispatch one of her 
                     satallites
                     satellites
                   with a newly-invented scandal to rouse them and set their tongues in motion; or she would sail up herself with a jaunty, spirited air, which served to clear the heavy atmosphere like sheet lightning on a summer's evening. 
               There were some very hard novices whom she almost despaired of; but, arming herself with courage, and her memory with recollections, she broke in upon one body of silent, bored, and boring guests, and, aided by two or three choice spirits, began to talk most perseveringly, peremptorily, and persuasively. 
               Leaving the dear little soul aux prises with these unamusable creatures, I must tell you what became of our party. 
               At the door, on entering, of course little Dick Everett was waiting to meet his stately idol, who smiled on him from the depths of her luxurious eyes, and after making her compliments to Mrs. Beresford, she took the boy's arm, dismissed Mr. Langdon, and bewildered Dick by a few of her prettiest and dreamiest phrases. 
               Alicia gave a half start on being addressed by a well-known voice, and Harry Barclay appeared, to be warmly welcomed by Angel and herself, and timidly by Lily. 
               Presently, however, they all changed their positions: Mr. Barclay, with his quiet manuvring, took possession of Miss Vere; Clarence sidled little Everett out of the way (who frowned his displeasure till Angel gave her fiat in Mr. Tracy's favor, and then he submitted); Alicia was flirting with a New York admirer; and the only two who retained their first belongings were William Clarendon and Madame de Montanvert. 
               "At last!" ejaculated Clarence, seating himself by Mrs. Langdon. 
               "At last!" echoed Angel, with a mocking smile. 
               "I began to despair of speaking three words to you. Why have you avoided me? Why do you wish to prevent me from pouring out to you, my confidant, my benefactress, my friend, the happy result of all your teachings? I wish to tell you-to assure you, even before I speak to her, of how deeply I venerate-I adore Lily. She is the sweetest, purest bud that ever bloomed for man's delight. What a companion! What a gentle hand to guide the helm of a wayward being's career! Is she not a tender glory? With all her feminine graces, her dove-like virtues, her speaking silence! Who would not trust those loving, meek, and innocent eyes? Ah! dearest Mrs. Langdon, let me thank you over and again for your far-seeing kindness. You bade me watch and wait for this treasure. She is a woman full of every womanly charm. No spark of deceit or cunning lurks in the blue lustre of her starry glance. A man might with unasking confidence place his honor, his life, his hopes in such keeping as hers." 
               Deeply from under the royal lids, with their long, searching, sneering glance, Angel listened. 
                
               "Yes? You think all that of Lily? How very nice!" 
               It was like a bucket of cold water suddenly dashed on an excited head. 
               With some difficulty Clarence proceeded: 
               "I do indeed. She has ripened into a most lovely, most lovable woman." 
               He paused, and Angel played with the lace lappets, and the jeweled butterfly danced among the shining folds of her black hair, while she now looked haughtily and indifferently over the crowd. 
               "I fear I am not worthy of so precious a care." 
               No answer but a slight smile. 
               "Has she not many admirers here? Does she not, do you think, regret her humble choice?" 
               "Clarence," said Angel, sitting up, which was a sign with her that she meant to speak to the purpose, "it is quite needless to talk to me in this exaggerated, melodramatic style. Lily is very charming, but you will never persuade me that you understand or feel her real charm. You are laboring violently to produce a dreary, famished soft of admiration, which does not in the least impress me. Be natural. Tell me that you find her wonderfully improved, that you thank Heaven for your good fortune, and that you will endeavor to make her happy. Happy," she repeated, with a deep-drawn sigh-"happy, because she is unselfish, true, devoted, and less anxious for personal preeminence than any creature I ever saw. She has listened to her heart; she means to give her hand where that heart has led the way; and, come what will of this act, she may live some blissful hours yet. She will never love any but you, and, struggling against her convictions, will continue to invest you with a whole catalogue of virtues-happy for that very reason, just as a vivid fancy enables its possessor to enjoy real pleasures more than a matter-of-fact one can attain under the same circumstances. Don't waste your time embroidering Lily for my benefit. All I ardently desire is that you should seriously appreciate her innocent, unworldly qualities. I am so hard, so old, so worn, I live in Lily's freshness as the flies do in amber. I let it envelop me, and lie dead and withered within its pure transparency." She smiled her bitterest smile: "We never show to greater advantage than side by side." 
               "Each the other reflecting," said Clarence, with one of his stereotyped phrases and bows. 
               Angel sighed, her eyes drooped, and a shade of pain contracted her lofty, languid brow. She placed her hand quickly upon her side, and then withdrew it as quickly. 
               "Are you ill?" asked Clarence, anxiously. 
               "A mere trifle; a spasm of that curious article, the heart. I should not know I had one, I suppose, unless these little twitches came occasionally. Velpeau says one great start some day will end my busy life. I don't mind them much. They rouse me, and set my blood stirring, and my brain thinking." 
               "It is very sad. Can nothing be done?" inquired Clarence, quite moved. 
               "Nothing. Don't you hear me say I enjoy them?" said Angel, impatiently. "Good-evening, gentlemen," she went on, with her accustomed insolent grace, as two men paused before her chair. "You are fortunate, Mr. Tracy: not only can I make you acquainted with Mr. Oldmeath, the unfailing translator of Branger, whom I promised, but see! he comes doubly welcome, for he brings my poet, my poetical proser, whose name is fame." 
               "Unkind, ungrateful Mrs. Langdon!" exclaimed the last gentleman, while Mr. Oldmeath was executing his most Englishly awkward of awkwardly English bows. "I have been from the distance adoring you in your grand-dame trappings, longing for powder in your blackest hair, to complete the picture, and come now by easy stages to tell you what an appreciative audience you have this evening, and you receive me in this way!" 
               "Have done with your 'appreciative audiences,'" said Mrs. Langdon; "in your paper it always means a very small crowd, of whom you can say nothing farther. Mr. Tracy, know Mr. Parker, and be happy in that knowledge." 
               Mr. Parker was tall, florid, light-haired, with an English expression (partly based on a nez retrouss), which he cultivated to the highest degree. His eyes were haggard and worked, and his dress fantastic and dandified. Of himself you saw no more, for his beard, curling in minute ringlets, covered his face. His manner was deferential, soft, and considerate. He made every woman to whom he spoke fancy that she, by herself, could govern a kingdom, so complete was her power over him, and if over him-why, the rest of the world was easily managed. 
               Mr. Oldmeath was not possessed of more grace than falls to the lot of most of his countrymen from the white cliffs of Albion. You could never doubt but that he was a gentleman, with all the natural reserve which is their time-honored privilege. He had the bluest eyes, with the merriest twinkle in them-the whitest teeth-the squarest nose. Prim, particular; neat, rectangular, he professed a taste for the society of the strictest matrons, and somehow managed always to be found courtisant les plus belles, without the slightest reference to the hugely moral nature of their pretensions and principles. 
               He worshiped Branger, he loved himself, and he honored the queen. 
               A lively chat ensued. 
               "I saw one of your most desperate admirers last night, Miss Langdon, the poet T--," said Mr. Parker. 
               "I never saw him in my life," said Angel, quietly. 
               "Impossible! you can't keep the list. They jostle one another, and you let them drop aside, fall, and wither like leaves from your bouquet. You must have known him. He described a certain drop of your eyelid-a bluish shade (nearly a vein) which tracks it-too closely for a street-gazer." 
               "Bear one thing in mind, Mr. Tracy," said Angel, "Mr. Parker speaks always for print and pay, either in ready money or in ready smiles, from his listeners. He does not expect me to believe him. I am very happy in the friendship of these two gentlemen. Mr. Oldmeath is so rigid in his translations, even of his thoughts, that he never tells me any thing which could not be proved by the original on the other page; whereas Mr. Parker-"and she paused, with one of her lustrous, upward glances-"no matter; I call them 'Fact and Fancy.'" 
               "That is not so good, my dear Mrs. Langdon," said Mr. Oldmeath, "as your speech to Parker that night at supper, when you were seated between the millionaire, old Carr, and himself. 'Behold me,' you said, 'between Mammon and Gammon.'" 
               "For a memory so apropos, and which brings to light forgotten witticisms, becoming, alas! fewer each day, you deserve, Mr. Oldmeath, a reward. Mr. Tracy (my townsman) is fresh from Paris; embrace him (mentally, I pray you) as one who has lately looked upon your idol, B-" 
               "For pity's sake," interrupted Mr. Oldmeath, raising his hands imploringly, "let my follies be! I have never bored you with my taste-" 
               "With your want of taste, frequently," retorted Angel, laughing one of her rare laughs. 
               "We shall not mind Mrs. Langdon's sneers," said Clarence, with his sympathizing smile, as he drew Mr. Oldmeath aside in deference to Angelica's "Pray talk him over," in a whisper. 
               But scarcely had Mr. Parker commenced one of his pretty fairy tales about a princess, whose name was Mrs. Some-one-or-other, and whose magic castle was built of bricks and mortar in Brooklyn, or in some such prosaic field, when Mr. Oldmeath called out, 
               "But, indeed, Mrs. Langdon, listen to this; acknowledge its graceful turn, its kind and honest impulse. Recite them again, pray, Mr. Tracy, and we will convert Mrs. Langdon." 
               "What is it?" asked Angelica, as Clarence hesitated. 
               "I was simply repeating to Mr. Oldmeath a couple of stanzas which were given to me in Paris as 'des vers indits' of Lamartine and Branger. I do not vouch for them as being entirely unpublished, but they were so called, and appear new, even to one of Branger's most trustworthy admirers," with a bow to Mr. Oldmeath. 
               "Let us have them," said Angel, languidly. 
               "Lamartine wrote in some lady's album, 
                   
                     
                         
                           "'Dans ce cimetire de gloire 
                           Vous voulez ma cendre!  quoi bon? 
                           Tandis que j'inscrits ma mmoire 
                           Le temps pulvrise mon nom.' 
                        
                      
                     -LAMARTINE. 
                  
                
               "Upon seeing which, Branger gallantly added, 
                      
                        "'Si le temps, pour montrer jusqu'o va son empire, 
                        Pulvrise en effet le beau nom que voil, 
                        Puisse-t-il sur les vers que j'ose encore crire, 
                        Jeter un peu de cette poudre-l.'" 
                     
                  
                
               "Is it not charming?" exclaimed Mr. Oldmeath, in an ecstasy. 
               "De-li-ci-ous," drawled Angel, with provoking coolness. "I am too impulsive to listen with proper calmness to such bursts of genius. Don't recite any more, Clarence-although your accent is very good." 
               "Why don't you take up the literary line, Mrs. Langdon? You are so difficult to please. Might you not give us something worthy our admiration?" 
               "On the contrary, it is you who find only one author-no, two," she added, with a significant look, and what, in a less haughty face, would have been superlative sauciness. "I would not dare to write even a magazine story. Mr. Oldmeath would praise me too little, and Mr. Parker too much. My reputation would be unmeaningly tepid between the two. Besides, I have no imagination. How could I cope with those budding, nursling vestals at the shrine of Poetry and Prose, who incessantly do pour out their sweet and sentimental phrases, and are cried up as 'graceful and interesting writers;' stain my fingers with even violet ink to be placed 'a little lower than these angels,' well 'got up' in Yankee-English, and very strong in the manners and customs of fourth-rate fashionables! I should as soon attempt to quash Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe with one of those interminable, tiresome replies to 'Uncle Tom's Cabin,' or enter the lists against the Bowery wit and refinement of Fanny Fern." 
               "Do not you admire Fanny Fern?" said Mr. Parker, turning uneasily. 
               "Admire her! what a misplaced sentiment! I may be surprised at her-wonder at her for being so heartily coarse-" 
               "Oh, Mrs. Langdon! she is so earnest-she feels so strongly-" 
               "Saul among the prophets! What business had you, my sentimental friend, with Fanny Fern? In what does she resemble your Nell Noodles and Poll Poodles, the eternal Rosa Matildas of your weekly journal? And, by the way, I heard some one complaining recently of the worn-out state of your sugar-sifter. You sprinkle the sweet too thickly over your critical notices, and induce this fault-finding subscriber to purchase such cart-loads of trash that he fervently hopes the secret will be soon discovered of making printed paper serve twice. He will gladly dispose of your cried-up volumes at less than the price of 'old rags per pound.'" 
               A smile made the white teeth of Mr. Oldmeath visible while Mr. Parker was receiving this reproof, given out in Angel's laziest manner, with a languid fatigue of gesture contrasting curiously with the vivacity of her words. 
               "There is something in the misfortunes of our best friends," &c.; but he was not destined to escape the feather-tipped lash of the scornful lady. 
               "And you, my dear sir, since I am in a candid vein, conduct your literary notices (with a difference) very much in the style in which Byron said the great English glish nation treats improprieties: every seven years it wakes up to a huge sense of virtue, and somebody must be punished, after which it falls asleep again, and nods and winks over far more culpable actions. In the reverse of this, you carry the war into every body's leaves, hitting right and left during at least seven weeks; then, with an amiable feeling ripe within you, or the moment at hand for the necessary layer of 'sweetening,' you light gently upon some new work, no better nor worse than its predecessors, and talk of it so kindly, and quote it so discreetly, that one might almost think-you had written it yourself." 
               Certainly both these unhappy gentlemen would have fled before this devouring sword; but what mattered these sarcastic sentences, when the scarlet lips that uttered them were so fresh and dewy, and the great eyes swept through their haughty lashes looks of the most bewildering insolence? 
               Mr. Parker only took a mental portrait of his tormentor, to be dressed up as a "Belle of our Days," and Mr. Oldmeath only thought her handsomer than any American woman he had ever seen. 
               How beauty drags all other gifts in its train! Without those eyes, and without her thousand charms, natural, acquired, and modified, Mrs. Langdon would have passed and been passed over as a rude, disagreeable, snappish woman. 
               So, my young reader, if you have no positive proof of your attractions, cultivate a winning grace of manner; but if you are only silly enough not to venture beyond the weather and ordinary beau topics, you are safe. Does any man know any thing more delightful than a real fool? a fool pretty to look at and sweetly affectionate? They are feminine-they are lovable-they are earth's blessings. Amen. 
                
               Clarence Tracy listened with amazement to Angel. He had no idea that she assumed so uncompromising a stand with every one, and he wondered to see two men, who were both in their way celebrities, bowing delightedly beneath her blows. 
               He rushed into the breach, and disputed Mrs. Langdon's position with a playful fervor that gained him two friends at once. But, even united, they were no match for the Saracenic blade, that cut as far as it intended, never going deeper than the wielder of it calculated; if there was a "graze," healing the wound with a smile so radiant that you would almost have preferred to be "hit again" for the pleasure of the cure, and in all her fiercest attacks never varying from a graceful languor, which made you sometimes fancy that she only spoke, after all, to please you, for the effort was more a bore to her than otherwise. 
               "I am quite hoarse," she said at length; "no doubt my friend, Mrs. Beresford, has provided unlimited supplies of soothing liquids for her guests. She must know that their unaccustomed throats will tingle after their first essay at conversation." 
               "What shall I get for you?" each gentleman eagerly asked. 
               "Nothing. I have a fancy for personal exploration of the buffet. Mr. Tracy is a stranger; he must be taken about and shown the people;" and with a softly-bending motion she arose, her heavy train swelled out behind her, she passed her fair, full arm through Clarence's, lifted her lofty head, the gemmed butterfly trembled and shone, she put back her impeding skirts with the air of a queen mounting the first steps of her throne, and with a backward glance smiled over her shoulder, and was lost in the crowd. 
                
               "Magnificent-is she not?" said Mr. Parker; "the turn of her shoulders is as natural and sweeping as that of her conversation. Do you know, Oldmeath, there is nothing so much neglected, so foolishly unthought of, as a woman's back. We go into phrensies about a beautiful face, while we never consider her back. There are lines about a handsome woman's spine which are constantly uncelebrated. I can not forgive Mrs. Langdon for that dress which covers those delicate traceries. A hand does not so surely define the character as a woman's back." 
               "And what of her face?" 
               "Never attempt to read a woman in her face. They are fitted with alabaster masks so soon as they can run alone, and time never washes off a layer of the composition. He wrinkles it and fades it, makes spots upon it, and worthlessly defaces it with additions, but he can not separate the clinging disguise from the real countenance beneath." 
               Mr. Oldmeath shrugged his own shoulders dissentingly. 
               "I am still young enough to believe in the innocence of the female character," he said, "and in the possibility of deciphering that innocence in the countenance. Nothing can be more detestable than a creature who places a perpetual guard upon her features. Let me see a woman whose sweet thoughts you can follow in the workings of her ingenuous face." 
               "Such a one as Mrs. Langdon, for instance," suggested Mr. Parker, slyly, being perfectly aware of Mr. Oldmeath's weakness in that quarter. The latter reddened slightly, and with an uneasy laugh began to talk of the last European news. 
               "You recognize those two gentlemen," Angelica said, as she left them, to Clarence. "I often wonder what unites them in a sort of hesitating intimacy-the one so sentimental, the other so matter-of-fact-except that the one practices what the other preaches. Mr. Parker always talks of the influence of women, and never yields to it. Mr. Oldmeath professes to despise it, and always falls under it." 
               "Perhaps their similar business," said Clarence; "they are both newspaper editors." 
               "Not at all," replied Angelica, answering his first proposition. "Mr. Oldmeath has taken up his editorship without interest in it; abominates the whole concern, and considers himself a martyr to printer's ink and proof-sheets, while, on the other hand, Mr. Parker really enjoys his weekly gossip with a circle of ten thousand silent listeners. You and Mr. Oldmeath ought to be good friends, Clarence. I have often noticed points of resemblance in you." 
               "Which, may I ask?" 
               She looked quietly at him. 
               "I am too tired to talk now. I shall listen a while to my own praises, murmured by little Dick Everett, who is only waiting, like a pretty Persian fire-worshiper, for one glance from his Sun to fall down and adore it. You had better see after Lily." 
               Clarence started. The name recalled him. 
               "What is there about you," he asked, musingly, "which makes all the women seem insipid? When with you, I forget that there is another being of feminine nature who exists. You are-" 
               He paused. 
               "Oh, Mrs. Langdon, wield your power gently. You abuse it. What are you?" 
               "I am original sin," said Angel, with a soft glance; "no one can quite resist me nor cast me aside." Then beckoning Dick Everett with a quick motion of her fan, which he instantly obeyed, she left it optional with Mr. Tracy to remain by her or to undertake a solitary survey of the company. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               MEANWHILE Lily, much to her amazement, found herself in close conversation with Harry Barclay. 
               Instead of talking to Alicia, he had singled out Miss Vere, and Alicia seemed quite indifferent about it. The fact is, this young lady was always bent upon the last object, and as more than a month had elapsed since she parted from Mr. Barclay, his place had been filled over and over again by "eternal" new conquests. She was glad enough to see him, but not very enthusiastic, and her present fancy was for fair men, with light curls and blue eyes, as typified by Charley Newton, who was a genuine specimen of young New York-blas at twenty, and lazily amused by the sprightly sallies of the bright little Southerner. 
               He actually thought her more agreeable than all Seracco's girls, and she "went the reverse step so nicely." 
               Harry Barclay had found himself several times thinking of Lily Vere. At the Walnut Street Club, lounging in his own especial chair at his own especial window, he had frequently neglected to notice a passing pair of ankles, because an image of girlish purity, with golden ringlets, filled his mind's eye. 
               It had not been his lot to meet many young girls whom he considered worthy of a serious thought; and as for marriage-a vision of a wife and domestic felicity ity-he would have deemed the penitentiary or a lunatic asylum the fitting spot for the honey-moon after such a rascally or mad proceeding. But there was something in his recollection of Lily which made him a little pensive and a little doubtful. He had found out that she was a great heiress: "perhaps, after all-what! marry?" He saw a white hair glistening in one of his crow-black curls-he saw Lily's smile. There was nothing definite in his ideas, but he packed up his trunks and was off for New York. 
               See them standing now, she with her ingenuous brow, and Harry with his most captivating expression. Mrs. Beresford was an old flame of his: she tossed him a flower as she passed, and a kiss from her finger-tips. 
               It was a beautiful and rare exotic-the gem of Louisa Beresford's bouquet. He played with it for a second or two while going through the first greetings, and then offered it to Lily. 
               She was so abstracted, and thinking so little of Mr. Barclay, that, with a slight bow, her white glove closed upon the "declaration," and she placed it in her belt-ribbon, where its beautiful petals and deep green leaves glowed upon the snowy ground, and were left to strike her hostess's eye in the most conspicuous and unconscious manner. 
               "You like New York, of course?" said Harry. 
               "I am not very sure that I do. It is too restless for me. I can not follow the tide with such quick turnings and sharp angles. I never can remember who are 'the very best people,' and who are 'not in society;' and it does not amuse me at all to know that Mrs. So-and-so bought four yards of point d' Alenon this morning, and Miss So-and-so has ordered six bonnets from Paris." 
                
               "You are severe," said Harry, smiling. 
               "Am I? I don't intend it. I think such gossip very tiresome, but it is better than slander about people's tempers and habits." 
               "You prefer intellectual society?" 
               "You wish to laugh at me now, Mr. Barclay. I am a very commonplace young lady, and very 'slow'-is not that the word? This perpetual motion-this constant stirring, depresses me. I can not roll the ball forever, even up mole-hills, and I long for quiet-the quiet of my dear, drowsy Charleston." 
               And she sighed. 
               "Your cousin and your friend both prefer New York." 
               "Yes. Angel and Alicia are fitted to adorn wide fields. They enjoy a crowd-a bustle." 
               "Very differently, however: Mrs. Langdon likes a commotion because it serves to throw out artistically her dignified repose, while Miss Clarendon mingles with the flood and joins herself to it." 
               "You read characters well," said Lily, feeling that she must speak, but with a hopeless, dreary headache that made her long for the absolute quiet that she was lauding. 
               "It is my misfortune to do so," replied Mr. Barclay. "I read people so easily that I can never deceive myself in them. I can never take them for what they are not; consequently, I find little to admire in my fellow-creatures." 
               "Since you find the rule universal, then," said Lily, gently, "why not decide that you only see human nature-that you must bear with it as God has created it; and, never dwelling on their ordinary short-comings, reserve your particular dislike for those things which are peculiarly bad?" 
                
               "What a dear little Methodist it is!" ejaculated Harry, inwardly; but these grave words which Lily's saddened feelings had brought forth, and which, from some old woman, would have disgusted and bored him, came with another effect from the bright lips and earnest eyes of the sweet mentor. 
               "I did not say that I found the 'rule universal,'" he continued, aloud; "on the contrary, I appreciate, with more intensity than another could do, real excellence-when I find it." 
               He did not bow, but he sufficiently marked his meaning. 
               "The world is all wrong, Miss Vere. Goodness is too dull-vice too pleasant: an idea by no means novel; but it would be an original invention if we could discover a remedy for this evil. How rarely can we find a woman who is both pleasant and proper-who interests and who instructs! Once, perhaps, in a man's life, he meets with a creature who at the same time delights his mind, and his eyes, and his better nature." This time a momentary bend of Mr. Barclay's stately head attested his intention, but Lily did not heed nor understand. 
               She still thought him Alicia's admirer. 
               "But," he went on, "ten to one he ignores his good luck, and passes her over for some vain, selfish, unstable, designing woman, who has more head than heart, and who, as Madame de Genlis said of Madame Agnes de Bouffon, 'N'a rien de bien que ce qui est beau.'" 
               A deep flush deepened Lily's color. 
               "Was her new acquaintance talking at her? Did he allude-" 
               At this very moment Angel's name was pronounced near them. 
                
               "Mrs. Langdon will see it." 
               "Oh no; she is busy with a fashionable-looking man, whom she has in her train this evening. Show it to us, dearest Mrs. Beresford." 
               "Come, Lou, produce it." 
               The voices belonged to that whilom silent party whom Mrs. Beresford had been endeavoring to amuse. They were approaching a small cabinet placed beneath a mirror, which filled up the space between two windows. 
               Behind the curtains of one of these windows stood Miss Vere and Mr. Barclay. Unless she had stepped decidedly forward, she could not be seen by her hostess, as Mrs. Beresford's back was turned toward them. To the rest of the party Lily was a stranger, whose connection with Angel was not at that moment uppermost in their minds. 
               Louisa, laughing heartily, drew from a portfolio a square of Bristol-board. 
               "Now, honor bright," she said, "this is between ourselves." 
               "'The Lionne and the Lamb,'" read out an affected, faded, skinny woman, with a hooked nose and a very gay dress. "Is it not like? See the large Angelica, with her languishing looks, and little Dick, with his lambkin face." 
               "I wish to have it daguerreotyped; may I not have it for a day or two, Mrs. Beresford?" said another voice. 
               "Oh no; impossible. I show it to you as a great favor." 
               "Well, I keep it-as a great favor to all the world," the second speaker went on, who was a man with a very disagreeable face, not from its ugliness, but from its sneering superciliousness, and whom Lily recognized as a pet aversion of Angel's. 
               Only the week before Mrs. Langdon had said, in answer to an inquiry at the Opera, "Do they let in all sorts of low newspaper reporters to the dress circle?" "Only Frank Sherwood;" and he had heard her, too. 
               Mrs. Beresford playfully refused to give up her picture, but with so little determination, that Mr. Sherwood was about triumphantly to pocket the object in question, when Lily came quietly forth from her curtained retreat, and drew the sketch from his astonished hand. At the same moment Mr. Barclay gave him a significant nod, and a profound silence fell upon the group. 
               Lily glanced hastily at the picture. It was very cleverly executed in water-colors-had caught all Angel's peculiarities made offensively glaring, and represented her, with leonine-ish outline, caressing a lamb, who bore just as striking a resemblance to little Everett. 
               Lily's beautiful figure rose and dilated with honest contempt as she fixed her eyes upon Mrs. Beresford. 
               "I do not ask your permission, madam, to destroy this picture; I do it at once." She tore it into fragments. "Beneath your own roof a guest should have been sacred. These ladies will excuse my interference;" and as her blue eyes rested upon each in turn, there seemed an electric light in them, which flashed a momentary shame into their callous souls. 
               Mrs. Beresford recovered herself the soonest. 
               "I had no idea, Miss Vere, that you were near us; but I must say that this saucy piece of caricature would amuse your cousin as much as it has amused us." 
               "Perhaps so, madam; you may let her judge for yourself, if you choose; I shall not. I can not regret, however, that I was near enough to prevent the farther spread of so-" She paused, and at that moment Louisa espied her flower gracing the corsage of this repining little miss, who stood so loftily before them. 
               Piqued, she cast an angry glance upon Mr. Barclay. 
               "I am not surprised," she said, "to see you appropriating other pieces of my property, Miss Vere;" and her spirited eyes, with their mocking sparkle, took in gentleman and flower. 
               Lily, with a wondering stare, was drawn off from the original topic, and might have lost her self-possession had not Angel herself arrived upon the scene of action, with great amazement depicted in her face. 
               "What is it, Lily?" she whispered, looking around upon the embarrassed circle. 
               "Nothing," said Lily, throwing the torn bits she still held into a pastille-burner on the cabinet, whose dragon's mouth opened wide enough for the purpose. 
               "I will tell you about it, Angelica," exclaimed Mrs. Beresford, boldly, determined to take the "bull by the horns," and she entered into a playful account of the business, slurring it over with her usual tact. 
               Mrs. Langdon listened with a smile, while her indignation rose. 
               "You should have shown it first to me, Lou. You know how much I admire your genius in this line. Could you not make a second? My cousin Lily is so provincial that she can not understand the warmth and depth of our city friendships, where we are willing to sacrifice ourselves in every way to faire valoir the talents of those we like. She can not understand that I would be perfectly willing to have myself made entirely ridiculous and disgusting, if, by so doing, your cleverness as a sketcher were bruited abroad." 
                
               How dignified, how commanding Angel was now, as she spoke these words in her melodious accent! 
               Lou Beresford was no match for her, which the little woman painfully felt as she shrugged her shoulders and shook her head deprecatingly at her offended guest, whose smile had not faded for a moment. 
               "Come," said Angel, taking Mrs. Beresford's hand, "I wish you to present me to that prosy old woman you wot of, who invites me all the time to her dull dinners, which I never accept. Lily, darling, there is a gentleman looking for you;" and, as Clarence approached, Angel called to Harry Barclay, who was obliged to join her, and Lily was left with the person whose society could, whether wearied or worried, best console her. She was agitated. The excitement gone, she trembled, and turned first red, then pale, and then red again. 
               "What is it?" Clarence urged; and finally Lily told him. 
               "Why, Lily, what a heroine you are! Face that party of strangers, and actually tear a paper from a man's hand! But," he added, his own color rising, "this is an impertinence which should be looked into." 
               "Not by you, Clarence. I fancy Angel thinks differently. She has gone off arm in arm with Mrs. Beresford, and, I have no doubt, wishes the whole thing considered as a jest. It would be awkward to take it up seriously. She had her revenge in the sheepish looks of both men and women. I don't think they will say much about it. Let us talk about something else. When are you going home? Has Willie decided? I wish so much to be at home!" 
               "So do I, dear Lily. At home. How pleasant it sounds!" 
                
               "And to see Nora again," said Lily, with her old childish manner, "and the Jenningses, and the Melbournes. Julia Melbourne is thought to be engaged, Clarence; is not that absurd? And oh, Clarence, Burleigh still growls affectionately when George says 'Lily sends her love, Bur;' he has not forgotten me. And the orange-trees, uncle writes, are grown amazingly at Chicora. Beautiful Chicora! Will it not be delightful to get among these things once more? to see a little of one's childhood's life? And, Clarence, did Nora ever tell you of your Aunt Sarah's offer? That dried-up Dr. Talbot wished her to marry him!" 
               Clarence laughed out; and the two having started a chapter of this nature, they talked on, forgetting the place, the circumstances, the surroundings. Lily's sweet face was radiant. Passers-by were struck with her tender beauty; and many a man in that gay assemblage paused a moment to envy the dark-browed, grave-aired stranger, with his distinguished carriage, who was listening so attentively to the constant prattle of the usually silent and reserved Southern belle. 
               There was peace. between them, and it was long since Lily had felt so perfectly happy as she did that night, when, after she had retired, Angel came to her bedside, and, kissing her warmly, said, 
               "Thank you, dearest Lily. I do admire you and love you sincerely. You are worthy to be your mother's daughter. May God bless you, Lily," and a tear-a real tear, fell from Angel's haughty eyes on the upturned forehead of her cousin. 
               A tear from Angel! Lily's heart overflowed. She caught Mrs. Langdon's hand. 
               "Oh, Angel-" 
               Angelica placed her soft fingers, heavy with diamonds monds, upon Lily's lips, and, kissing her again, she swept from the room with her stately, languid, luxurious grace. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               A WEEK more, and the trunks were packed ready for their homeward journey. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Clarendon were naturally anxious to embrace their son, from whom they had so long been separated, and William himself had a strong wish to be again under the paternal roof. Angelica pressed them kindly to prolong their stay. Madame de Montanvert was wretched at her departure, and Edward Langdon, who had been all this time shooting over on Long Island, condescended to express, in his weariest accent, his distress that the ladies should leave just as he returned to town. 
               But this fact rather hastened their start, for Mr. Edward Langdon had filled up the vacuum in his vapid head with an idea of matrimony, and had chosen as its opposite and apposite object Miss Vere, whose fortune, as our French neighbors say, "smiled to him." This was more than the lady herself did; for if Lily had a positive dislike, it was for her new soupirant. His utter inanity she would have borne unflinchingly, but his conceit, his selfishness, his hardness almost angered her; and for such a creature to break in upon her conferences with Clarence, and to join her daily in Broadway, was a continual irritation to her gentle spirit. 
               However, she only made matters worse for herself in the end, and thus it was: 
                
               Pestered by Edward Langdon, she gratefully turned for relief to Mr. Barclay, who, flattered by her growing attentions, really began in earnest to recommend himself to his unconscious listener. There was something very taking to a worn-out man of fashion in the freshness and perfect simplicity of Lily. She was so natural, so honestly unsophisticated, he liked to listen to her opinions and sentiments shyly uttered with her sweet voice and her stately manner. The mixture of girlishness and maturity about her was new and singularly attractive. He found himself hanging around her with all the devotion he had ever given to the most dashing woman, but he soon discovered that instinct prompted him not to pay devotion of precisely the same character. 
               He never embarrassed her with looks and words; he was calmly attentive and respectful, and Lily fancied him still desirous of recommending his pretensions to Alicia through her. 
               Clarence did not interfere. His confidence in Lily was entire. It was the best trait of his character; he believed in her; whether it arose from belief in himself or not, there was at least that firm conviction. 
               He watched her a good deal, and was puzzled about Angelica. 
               This last week in New York has ever been a pleasing recollection to Mrs. Langdon. The tear that fell on Lily's brow did its work. She made a vow with it, and kept it. For once in her life she acted without a selfish motive, and showed herself what she might have been-perhaps. 
               There was no more sublime coquetry, no feigned indifference, no feigned interest. 
               She was true, frank, honest; and if, in her present gay and brilliant career, when magnificence and dissipation hide the hollow, wearied satiety, she wishes to dwell upon some green oasis in the arid desert of her past life, the haughty Mrs. Langdon, the superb Mrs. Langdon, with her jewels, her Cashmeres, her court, and her dignity, looks back with sad satisfaction to those short seven days, when her gentle cousin said to her at their conclusion, 
               "Dear Angel, we understand each other now. You have made me very happy." 
               For very shame, Clarence could not have renewed his shuffling attentions. He did not attempt it; and there lies Angel's praise, for the fact of his withdrawal was the incentive for her to proceed. 
               A coquette may abandon her prey, while she still leaves him sighing for her; but it is very rare to see one sheathe her eyes, and put her pretensions in rest, when the victim appears willing to retreat. 
               Alicia was the busiest of all. She had hundreds of dollars to spend in finery, and an untold number of admirers to dispose of. The last evening came. It was Opera night, and Mrs. Langdon's box was hemmed in by a double row of gentlemen. It was the point de mire of the whole house, for New York seldom boasts of three such beauties united, and so attended. 
               I should be sorry were I obliged to set down all the platitudes uttered on this occasion. 
               There was the usual wonder how Miss Vere and Miss Clarendon could consent to bury themselves in Charleston, anticipations of pleasant meetings the following summer at Newport and Saratoga, and general expressions of regret that they should leave New York. 
               Alicia most mourned the balls, Lily the Opera; and the latter begged to be allowed to listen tranquilly to the entrancing notes of "Favorita," since it might be many months before she again enjoyed such a privilege. 
               She leaned back in her chair with a rapt countenance, and Mr. Barclay promised that no one should molest her. But at the fall of the curtain he claimed his reward. She must listen to him. 
               Under cover of the incessant tattle around them, undismayed by the threatening looks which lightened from the brilliant eyes of Mrs. Beresford, who was watching him from her own box, Harry Barclay made his first proposal of marriage. 
               It was open, manly, straightforward, like his real self before women's flatteries and guilty opportunities had contributed to spoil a naturally fine disposition. 
               His heart beat more rapidly than it had done since he was sixteen, and he could have recommended himself to ten of the handsomest matrons in that Opera house with less embarrassment than it cost him to say, "I love you" to this young girl, with her gentlest manner and subdued tone. So much for habit. 
               It was a painful surprise to Lily. No one could know Harry Barclay well without liking him. Through that foppish exterior, under that indifferent air, disguised by that insolently-carried head, there lurked the germ, the promise, the foundation of a noble character, and which, like the single grain of perfume hidden in the mass of deadening cotton, retains its power, and can be guessed at when you come near enough to seek the latent cause of your involuntary approach. 
               Clarence Tracy did not possess half the real worth of this dissipated votary of fashion, but a different education had in the two men worked different results. Clarence had never run the gauntlet of vanity and coxcombry which had been the existence of Harry; he had never had his admiring female circle; he was brought up in a strict school, and had taught himself to assume opinions and phrases which were foreign to his thoughts, and yet nature and natural instinct remained strong within him. He talked very finely, but his actions did not keep pace with his words; whereas Harry Barclay, his own master since his boyhood, reverenced inwardly the things at which he sneered outwardly. But, after all, this might only prove that education can not correct nature, so that I had best leave the discussion. I am not wise enough to sift the business. I can only tell the result. I sometimes think that pigs are but the type of people. If you wish to produce a movement toward the right, pull toward the left. If you wish Master Johnny to be a parson, you must rather encourage him to gamble and frolic; if you wish Miss Lucy to be staid and sober, you must early train her to dissipation and beaux. 
               How else can we account for the children of pious parents so often proving great rascals, while excellent, God-fearing children take their rise from the household of the most careless thinkers and actors? 
               To the eyes of the world Clarence Tracy was a moral and respectable, though fashionable youth, while Harry Barclay was cited as a dangerous and abandoned young gentleman, conversant with every vice. A father would simply have demurred about Clarence's want of fortune, should he have asked for a daughter's hand, while Mr. Barclay would have been peremptorily dismissed from any family circle as a firebrand with black eyes and hair to match. Yet the latter possessed the material from which one could extract a tender and honest husband, whereas Clarence Tracy, with his sentiments, his prudery, and his fine feeling, was but an unpriggish Joseph Surface, after all. 
               Lily's kind heart suffered. She was really grieved to be forced to say "I can not promise any thing. Don't look to the future, and fancy that I shall change." 
               "I do not pretend to be ignorant of your great wealth, Miss Vere; it is the least of your claims upon my sincere admiration; but since I heard that you were an heiress, it seemed to me as if Fate could not provide for mortal man a more perfect future than you could insure him. I am lazy-I am very worthless, I suppose. I have enough to live upon alone, and it would be a difficult matter for me to undertake life in a cottage at my age. I looked at you, and sighed and mourned over my wasted hours. Never had I seen the woman before whom I should have gloried in marrying. You see that I am frank-too candid, perhaps. I heard accidentally that you were rich and independent. It appeared to open a sudden vista of hope and happiness. You will not, perhaps, comprehend my feeling. I never imagined for one moment that I could be accused of mercenary motives in seeking you; my consciousness of your attractions was too deep to fear a reproach of that nature. If you can love me, if you can accept my love, the study of my life shall be to show my gratitude." 
               "It can not be," said Lily, again, while her heart taught her that these words were true and positively earnest-a consciousness that softened still more her soft voice. 
               "I do not wish to weary you or to annoy you," Harry went on; "I never wanted to marry any body before this-I never offered myself, as it is called-so that probably I do not say the right things. Consider before you answer me, dearest Miss Vere. I do not think I shall poison myself, nor try drowning at the dock, but I feel-" here his voice faltered, and the slight levity which he had assumed to cover its previous tremblings failed him-"I feel that I stand upon the precipice of my Fate. Your hand will draw me with its lightest touch to wisdom and to safety; without it, I shall renew my old course, no doubt, and be ever-what I have been." 
               No longer with daring eyes and with cynical smile, but with a pleading, honest lustre in the one, and a scarce perceptible quiver of painful anticipation about his lips, Harry awaited her reply. 
               "I will not trifle with you, Mr. Barclay, nor put you off with unmeaning sentences. I believe in you-I think you better than you care to show yourself to all the world. You say that I may consider your words out of order; what I am going to say may be just as irregular." She blushed till the crimson flood even darkened her white shoulders. "I have loved the person whom I hope to marry since I was a mere child. I am very young still, but circumstances have hastened my years. I like you very much," she continued, raising her blue eyes ingenuously to his deep gaze; "I appreciate the compliment of your belief in my power, and you will not think me wanting in maidenly delicacy if I beg you to accept three words of counsel from so young and so inexperienced a girl as myself." 
               "Any words from you," answered Harry, gravely bowing, "I must always receive at their proper and highest valuation." 
               "Do not waste your time and thoughts on me," said Lily, still blushing; "but pray, if you do care for me, think better of women for my sake. It hurts me so much to hear you speak slightingly of the whole sex." 
               In her mind she meant Alicia, and was grieving over this proof of the effect produced by Miss Clarendon's faulty manner. 
               "I admit the reproof," said Mr. Barclay; "it is bad taste to praise one person by running down others, but-" He paused. "This, then, is final. You can leave no hope?" 
               "None," she said, gently. 
               He sighed. 
               "You are a singular being, Miss Vere. I wonder if you affect every one as you do me. While speaking to you I seem to put off my individuality. I am years younger. I believe in virtue, goodness, piety, excellence. I can not speak to you as one speaks to other young ladies. There is about you a halo of almost unearthly purity, without a shade of prudery or moroseness. You smile with as much joyousness, you enter into passing events with as much playful grace as your neighbors, but you seem, after all, only to lend yourself. You are out of the world. If you were nervous or affected, I should fear to say what I am going to do. It seems to me as if you will die young. Heaven will never permit so perfect a whole to crumble away beneath the friction of years." 
               A startled expression crossed Lily's brow. She shuddered. 
               "Don't say that. I am not nervous, but life is bright to me. I do not wish to die." 
               "Forgive me. Of course, I speak, I can not say jestingly, but with a kind of romantic thoughtlessness. You will not utterly forget me, Miss Vere? In your own sunny home, surrounded by all those mementoes which you so much love"-he would not distress her by alluding to her confidence a moment before-"you will sometimes remember, will you not? that one 'hardened wretch' bears you in his mind as a type of what woman can be?" 
               Harry's hand shook as he took up his lorgnette and began to arrange its focus. He was very calm, and had spoken very quietly, but he felt as if he had had a great blow coming from an unknown source: it was overwhelming and unaccountable. 
               Lily was silent and uncomfortable. The curtain rose, the hum of conversation ceased, and Clarence Tracy, who had gone off to speak to a foreign acquaintance whom he recognized in the parquette, guessed, as he passed her on his return, that the supercilious-looking Philadelphian had met with a rebuff. Human nature is so curiously constituted that Tracy admired Lily the more at that moment because somebody else did too, and he exchanged a familiar look with her, so reliably affectionate and confiding that Mr. Barclay immediately divined his rival. 
               He scanned that dark, grave, distinguished face with discerning eye. During the whole of the act he furtively watched its expression. The result of his study was not satisfactory. 
               "Hard and selfish!" he muttered. "God help this tender creature." 
               But is a man just refused by a young lady capable of giving an unbiased opinion upon the merits of another man whom he has reason to suppose the favored hero? 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               "WE are over the bar, Alice, darling. Rouse up. Here is our dear old Charleston in sight." 
               Lily was animated far beyond her usual state. Her eyes sparkled, her little feet almost danced upon the cabin floor of the steamer as she pulled at Alicia, who lay helplessly in her berth, disgusted with every thing. 
               "Well, suppose we are in sight of Charleston, I need not be in a hurry to look at it. We shall see enough of it, I dare say, before we see any thing else again." 
               "But look at the Island! Fort Moultrie! and all those new houses upon the beach! Fort Sumter is at least six feet higher from the water's level." 
               "I smell the marsh mud," said matter-of-fact and cross Alicia, struggling into her sea-gown of dark merino; "and how hot it is! Have we been six months making the voyage from New York, and is this June? What a horribly monotonous climate! and where will be the use, pray, of my beautiful ermine muff and cape in this eternal summer?" 
               Lily at last got her on deck, where Willie quizzed her unlustrous hair and forlorn looks, and even the "courtly Clarence" could not deny that three days of sea-sickness had considerably wasted her beauty. 
               Excitement had done the work of rouge, kohl, and pearl-powder laid on by nature for Lily. She drank in the balmy air, she opened wide her lovely eyes, as if to absorb the surrounding view, and she sometimes stretched out her arms, as if to clasp it to her beating heart. Her voice was full of sweetest melody. In every intonation spoke the love of her native soil. The young men watched her with admiration, and Alicia yawningly said, 
               "Has Lily all her life been bottling up her enthusiasm for this patriotic burst? Subside, my dear, or you will startle our gentle compatriotes. Fancy Sara presently a victim to your want of equanimity. By the way, I trust she will keep that aristocratic nose of hers out of the house until to-morrow. If she sees me in this pitiable plight, she will spread an account of my appearance that weeks will not undo." 
               "By Jove! I am hungry," cried her brother. "When you mention Sara, it always makes me think of eating. How that voracious child used to pitch into the victuals and drink, to be sure! She always chose for her sweetheart at dancing-school the boy who had the most pocket-money, and the most liberal disposition for candies and tart. Won't mamma have a great dinner for us to-day! and the governor will bring out his oldest Madeira." 
               "Is this the season for okra soup? I should like okra soup," said Alicia, languidly. 
               "Alice," exclaimed Lily, turning round with a merry smile, "you know that okra soup is in season in the midst of summer. You remind me of that girl who had always lived in the country until she went to pay a visit in Savannah. She staid six weeks, and when she came back, on taking her first walk through an old lane, she suddenly stopped and screamed, 'What is that? oh! what is that?' 'Betty,' cried her sister, 'are you foolish? Don't you know a cow, Betty?'" 
               "Thank you, Lily, for a miracle worked in my favor," said Alicia, with mock anger, when they had stopped ped laughing at her: "Miss Vere relating personal anecdotes of an absurd tendency, calculated to throw ridicule upon her friends. 
               The steamer now neared the wharf, and the dusky outline of Charleston, with its weather-beaten aspect and its dingy coloring, changed from indistinctness to hard reality. 
               There it lay, "with all its faults upon its head." It is not picturesque; it is not imposing. It neither makes you wonder at its commercial grandeur, nor admire its pleasing beauty; but there is something attractive in its irregular and peculiar construction. Each house is built by itself and for itself. Each man's domicil is indeed his own especial castle, fronting whichever point of the compass suits his taste, and displaying any style of architecture which suits his pocket and plan. The predominating air is respectability. There is nothing flashy, nothing daring, nothing ostentatious. If a parvenu (and there are "a few" now in Charleston) erects a mansion of pretension-bold, staring, and glittering-six months of this atmosphere tones it down to a harmonious shade, which cavilers might call dusty. 
               Gardens are numerous-blocks of houses rare. The streets are moderately wide; the pavements irrationally narrow. There is no hurry, no throng any where. Business men walk almost as leisurely as les flaneurs. They keep early hours in Charleston-still hold to three o'clock dinners; and the "last bell," which rings at nine o'clock on winter evenings, and at ten during the summer, to warn the negroes to their homes, is the signal for the simultaneous closing of shutters, and barring of doors up and down the streets-the notification of bedtime to this virtuous city. 
                
               There were few passengers besides the Clarendon party on board of the steamer, so that but a limited audience assisted at the growing delight of Lily as one familiar object after another met her gaze, as they slowly swept into their moorings. 
               What an eager assemblage welcomed the travelers home! Mr. Clarendon and George leaped upon the deck as the boat touched the wharf, and the honest old gentleman knew not which first to embrace. The girls, of course, claimed that right for themselves, and so he simplified the business by folding his arms around both at once, and extending his hands behind their backs to his eldest boy, grown in five years from youth to manhood. George had to satisfy his feelings with Clarence, who felt a little forlorn, with no relation to meet him, till he espied Nora making frantic efforts to dislodge herself from a distant carriage, and waving her arms imploringly to him. 
               He ran to her rescue, and helped her down the steps of one of those antique coaches, now seen, I believe, nowhere but in Charleston, which are mounted on C springs, in shape like large squashes, and in discomfort indescribable. 
               It is presumed that their owners cling to these vehicles with a kind of aristocratic pride, saying within themselves at every jolt, "At least people can see that our carriage was not set up yesterday," and healing their bruises with this salve. Miss Sarah Tracy would not have exchanged her "family pumpkin" for the "thousand dollar" coach which took the prize at the last State Fair. 
               "How handsome you are, Clarence!" cried his admiring sister, releasing him for a second from her clasp, "and oh! what a time you have been away!" 
                
               But her attention was now diverted to Lily, and how those girls did kiss each other, to be sure! 
               Mutual compliments were exchanged. 
               "How tall you are, Lily!" 
               "How little and nice you are, Nora! not bigger than Alicia." 
               Alicia protested that she would not be looked at, and, drawing down all her veils, made a rush for the carriage, and here a surprise awaited them. Beside the comfortable, well-known Clarendon turn-out, which was not of the very oldest type (such as Miss Tracy's), there stood an elegant coup, drawn by two fine bay horses, and the reins held by one of Lily's own servants, whose shining black face was fairly oiled with happiness. 
               "Why, Plato!" exclaimed his mistress, as she shook hands with him-not daintily, like one dreading contamination, but a hearty, good shake-"what carriage is this?" 
               "'Tis youu'n, my n'young missus," quoth radiant Plato, "and I'm coachman; and dat is leetle Sambo, what you 'member-big Betsey's oldest chile, what Mass Clarendon tek in de house now for go wid your carriage." And "leetle Sambo" stood grinning, and scraping his foot, splendid in his new clothes, and eager for notice. 
               It was pretty to see the fair, patrician-looking girl bending her kind glance upon these "persecuted slaves," giving to each her white hand and her cordial greeting-not only those subject to her own "lash," but likewise to her guardian's helpless victims-inquiring after their relations and their health, and understanding their talk and their habits like one who had from childhood lived familiarly among them. It was not only Lily whose good nature and sweetness prompted this behavior, but Willie, and Alicia, and Clarence were cognizant of the claims of these "miserable Africans," who crowded up to "shake hands" and "bless God" that he had restored the wanderers to their homes. 
               "Mamma will be impatient," suggested Mr. Clarendon, when Lily turned to inquire from him, as he emerged from the steamer, how that coup was called hers. "Yes, dear, it is my gift to you-my Christmas present, anticipating the 25th of December. I did not send you a check for finery, as I did to Alicia, but put it in that shape. Get in, darling; and you, Sambo, leave off staring at your missus. She is not going off again." 
               "It shall be for both of us," said Lily. "The boys may go in the carriage, but Alice must come with me." So Alicia, not very loth, was transferred to the well-appointed vehicle; nods, smiles, and "We'll see you soon's" were exchanged; and while the coup dashed triumphantly past the cotton-bales on the wharf, and took its rapid way home, the last view Clarence caught of it showed Lily's face still turned toward him. They passed through King Street, the fashionable walk containing the fashionable shops. 
               "How pleasant it all looks!" said Lily. 
               "How dull it all looks!" said Alicia; "ah! how different from Broadway! and such bonnets I never did see." 
               "Yes you have, often," retorted Lily, with her quiet smile. "I think that they are the same we left behind us two years ago. But they seem so like old friends!" 
               "You are incorrigible, Miss Vere," ejaculated Alicia. "I believe you love this dust, because it rises from the earth of Charleston." 
                
               "Of course I do. But here we are, and there is aunt." 
               Yes, there was the dear old house, with its wide garden, not bare and empty, but filled with shrubs and evergreens. The genial warmth of the Southern December sun had brought out here and there a flower or two, and great pots of geraniums and hyacinths bordered the stone steps, on which, crowned with her sunbonnet, stood excellent Mrs. Clarendon. 
               A mother's welcome she gave to both. It was now twelve years since little Elizabeth Vere, the orphan heiress, had been conveyed from her father's grave to those hospitable arms, and it warmed the good woman's heart to think that she had done "her best" as well for Lily as for her own girl. 
               If there were faults in "her best," she did not know it, for, with all her unostentatious qualities, Mrs. Clarendon had no mean opinion of herself; and the fact is, I have seen among the dowdiest, primmest, and most home-staying of our matrons as much perfect self-satisfaction as ever sat enthroned upon the brow or in the secret soul of the most consequential beauty. 
               "Come in-come in, children. Your maumer is dying to see you, Lily; and here come all the servants, and there is my Willie." 
               Such a crowd poured into the entrance hall! old and young, men and women, so that while Mrs. Clarendon was feasting her eyes upon Willie, straining him again and again to her bosom, and holding him at arm's length to admire him, the girls were surrounded. 
               There was Lily's maumer, a dignified colored woman, with an immense head-handkerchief, who laid her withered hands upon the light tresses of "her child," and patted her cheek, while tears of joy silently rolled down her face. 
               There was Alicia's maid, a smart, smiling black girl, who claimed the right to stand closest to her "young mistis," and to keep off intruders. 
               The girls had a joke and a remembrance for each one. None of the elderlies were quite well: "Only so-and-so," "I day" (Anglice, I am here), were the best accounts; "ain't so bad now, bless the Lord," were the most favorable reports. It is a wonderful circumstance that you can not persuade negroes to acknowledge themselves perfectly in health. No inquiries could reach the root of the disease, nor even graze its surface, but it is a point of honor or of elegance to be ailing. With all their natural gayety, they dote on funerals; with all their love for high colors, they delight to put themselves into mourning. 
               No jesting can move their equanimity on these subjects; they let all your strictures and pleasantries roll innocuous, like rain on a goose's back. 
               I might make out quite an interesting chapter by detailing at length the first conversations held between the young ladies and these "slaves," who were brimfull of the adventures of the past eighteen months, and who were anxious to call for "Miss Lily and Miss 'Licia's" sympathy or good wishes; but there have been so many dreary attempts to depict the manners and customs of these "unhappy descendants of the aborigines of that delightful and interesting country-Africa" (as I once heard a distinguished senator say), my "maumer tongue" has been so profaned by those who undertake to transcribe it, that I renounce the task. 
               I should only be stigmatized as a follower in their halting footsteps, and I have neither the ambition to fill up their ruts nor to bury myself in them. I may say in passing, however, that the generally-received idea as to the dialect of our Southern negroes is about as correct as the French manage to convey when they relate that their English neighbors write on the tombstones of their wives, "Farewell-adieu; adieu-farewell;" and that the lady-killing Lord Edward Poggins, on being introduced to the daughter of his friend, "Sirr Thompson," says, "Good-morning, Mees." 
               "It is three o'clock! Dinner-dinner," sings out Master George. "I must be off to the counting-house;" for be it known that George had determined to make himself a merchant, and he was in training "on the Bay" (which is the commercial part of the city) as a clerk, which humble position is no longer scorned by the most aristocratic scions of the most aristocratic houses. 
               How tastefully and prettily were the rooms furnished which awaited our young beauties! opening into each other, so that their occupants might be together as much as they chose, and looking upon the back garden, with its thickets of gardenia and hedges of box. 
               But Alicia had no time to examine or to admire. She had a vision of Sara Purvis driving round that afternoon; so she wished her trunks unpacked, her dressing-case opened, her bath prepared, and herself to be "under arms" for the approaching scrutiny. 
               However industriously given, there was no counting-house for George any more that day. It was not till five o'clock that Alicia declared herself "ready," and they sat down to dinner. 
               "This is comfortable, by Jove!" exclaimed Willie, with his old-fashioned and favorite juron. "There is nothing like home, is there, sir?" 
                
               And Mr. Clarendon gave a delighted assent. With what beaming looks did this honest gentleman survey his family circle! 
               There was not a care in his heart nor on his face. His pretty Alicia, with her beautiful toilet, her saucy smile, her merry words, her indolent attitude, and her good appetite; Willie, with his handsome face, and manly figure, and hearty laugh; and George, with all the amusing consequentialness of his recent advancement to a place of business constantly breaking through the under-current of his boyish frivolity and fun, made a group of his own possessions which had not yet declared its independence, nor given him one moment's serious uneasiness. Then, to complete the picture, there sat the child of his adoption, whom to look upon was to love, so irresistible was her gentle charm. It was indeed a happy dinner. The servants found it difficult to keep their gravity while waiting, for their state of excitement contributed to make every jest or good story overwhelming; and the "boy" of the establishment, who is always the recognized butt in every house, was on this "auspicious occasion" threatened with so many wondrous punishments by "Mass George" if he should venture to laugh out again, that Bob was fain to retire to the entry, and there explode into a perfect fusilade of guffaws, until cuffed into silence by the majestic "Daddy Jacob," Mrs. Clarendon's right-hand man. 
               Nowhere in this country, save in one of those cellars such as that of which Mr. Clarendon kept the key, could you find a bottle of Madeira like the one that Jacob placed, when the cloth was removed, before his master. 
               Bright-tinted, oily, sparkling with subdued paly lustre tre, decanted into cut-glass of the old diamond pattern, and drunk in thin, bell-shaped glasses with straw-thick shanks, and little stars sprinkled upon the delicate surface, it slid down the throat indeed like 
                     "Neat bottled velvet tipped over one's lips."
                  
                
               "This is glorious!" cried Willie. "None of this on the Continent, sir." 
               The Purvises were announced-the ladies only. 
               "Show them into the drawing-room," said Mrs. Clarendon. 
               "And, Lily, tell Sara," cried the eldest hope of the Clarendons, "that I am prepared to fall desperately in love with her, and I shall come presently to do so." 
               I can not possibly introduce Miss Purvis at the close of a chapter, so I shall pass over in silence the meeting between the relatives, only mentioning that Alicia was quite satisfied with the effect she produced. Her costume evidently astonished and dazzled both Mrs. Purvis and her daughter. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               "MR. TRACY would like to see you, sir." 
               "Who, Jacob?" 
               "Mass Clarence," explained Jacob. 
               "Oh, show him in here," said Mr. Clarendon, putting down his newspaper and taking off his spectacles. "What does Clarence want, I wonder?" 
               Great was the consternation of the good gentleman when Clarence explained his want. He wanted the sanction of Miss Vere's guardian to his engagement with that young lady. 
               "Good God! my dear boy, this is very sudden. When has this happened?" and Mr. Clarendon got up and paced the dining-room with uneasy strides. "Lily! why she is a mere child. Have you her consent?" 
               "I would not have presumed otherwise to ask yours, sir. I am well aware that Miss Vere's fortune, and even more, her great attractions, make an offer to her a presumption of no ordinary nature. You can not wonder at such a gift falling to my lot more than I do. Should it meet with your approbation, I shall indeed stand in a position to make me the envy of the world." 
               "You may well say so-you may well say so. The prettiest girl and the sweetest temper in all Carolina, not excepting my own daughter, and a clear income of-more thousands than you need spend. But how has this come about? In these two days since she returned? Upon my word, you have improved your time, young gentleman." 
                
               "We had an understanding before I went abroad-" 
               "The devil you did! I wish I had understood it too." 
               "I regret, Mr. Clarendon, that you should show such annoyance," said Clarence, coldly, and somewhat haughtily. "I know that my own fortune is not sufficient to enable me to consider myself on that level with your ward, but it is scarcely necessary to tell my father's oldest friend that in birth and in position I might aspire to Miss Vere's hand, and I trust that my character is sufficiently unimpeachable to warrant the same act of temerity. Lily and I have both acknowledged a preference since we were children; and although, as a lad of twenty, I told the girl of fifteen that I loved her, still I scrupulously would not bind her by any promise, and in not one of my European letters is there a word which could not have been written to my sister. I found her free on my return, save that she still held to her unworthy regard for me; but I awaited the moment when she should be restored to your paternal care before I renewed, or, I may say, before I ventured to offer her those vows which it shall be the duty and happiness of my life to keep holy, sacred, and faithful." 
               "Very good-very good, Clarence. That was right-that was honorable. But an heiress like Lily must not be married off in this hurried way; it is a great responsibility. By heavens! my dear fellow, I would rather you had asked me for Alicia. I could have found out whether she loved you; you might have lived here in this house all your days, and that would have ended the matter. But Lily-it is a great responsibility." 
               "I grant you, sir, that you may find, at any time, a better parti for your ward. There is her cousin, Gustavus Purvis, or your son William-" 
               "None of your confounded foreign stuff! your partees, Clarence," cried Hugh Clarendon, fairly stung. "No, by George, sir! I don't mean Lily for my son. Who put that notion into your head? I may once or twice," he added, with an honesty that forced him to speak, "I may once or twice have had such an idea, if the young people fancied each other; and it is true, in sending Will abroad, I thought, in a vague way, that he would come back fresh and new to her; but-Well, well, Andrew Vere would have liked it, I think. Where is Lily?" he asked, abruptly. 
               "I will send her to you, sir." 
               A light step, a soft rustle of a silken skirt, a faint rose perfume, and Lily stood blushingly beside her guardian. 
               "So, my dear, you sent that young gentleman to me?" 
               "I did, uncle." 
               "This is a great surprise, Lily; but your father gave me no right to control you. Do you love Clarence Tracy well enough to be sure you wish to marry him?" 
               The blue eyes were hidden by their white lids and dark lashes, the head was partly turned away. 
               "Yes." 
               "Then I suppose it is all right." A half sigh raised Mr. Clarence's broad chest; with it departed his momentary chagrin. He would have been ashamed to cherish a second longer the innocent plans that, almost unconsciously, his heart had framed during many years. He almost thought himself mercenary, and, wounded by Clarence's chance shaft, he considered it necessary to further this marriage sooner than be accused of inveigling his ward for his son. 
                
               He folded his arms around Lily with his usual fatherly tenderness. 
               "God bless you, my child. Clarence!" he called out. Clarence entered from the adjoining room. 
               "Make her happy, Clarence; you have drawn a prize." 
               And so Lily was betrothed formally; and so are many young girls given in marriage, without an inquiry made into the habits, the principles, the morals, the antecedents of the man to whom she becomes the veritable legal slave. A young girl, brought up with every care, educated in every refinement, tutored by nature and by association in delicacy of sentiment and taste, becomes the victim of a possible brute, without her family or friends troubling themselves farther than to know that he has a roof to shelter her-often that but a temporary one. 
               He may have debts, he may have mistresses, he may have associates that will ever after cloud her future. Who knows it? who asks about it? His companions know it-his enemies guess it; but it is not surely their place to step forward and turn informer. I knew a girl once who, at an age scarcely beyond childhood, married a man whom her parents thought "an admirable match," i. e., he had a plantation and some negroes; it turned out that, besides these advantages, he had a broken-down constitution, a taste for drink, a number of debts, and a vile temper. 
               "We all knew it," said his comrades. 
               "Why did you not tell her parents?" demanded some pitying souls. 
               "Did they inquire into his belongings? Was it our business to enlighten them unasked?" was the natural retort. 
                
               And so was this young creature sacrificed, and so are many young creatures sacrificed here and every where. "Marriage is a defective institution," cries out a wicked French novelist, and some virtuous people agree to it too; but though the world has been saying this these centuries past, I see no reform-do you? In France, a young aspirant for matrimonial honors is thoroughly sifted, it is true, and they search every recoin of his past history; but these are called "marriages of convenience," and the bride sees her bridegroom only as a bridegroom; it is their first acquaintance, and if those little defects of character which make up humanity don't fit and tally, so as to enable them to rough it through life side by side, why, they part amicably to different quarters of the house, and if they make their peace with Heaven as easily after that as they do with the world, so much the better for them. Consequently, to my mind, neither are "marriages of convenience" just the right thing. 
               After all, I don't pretend to be a sage; and, like many who preach "improvement," I can't tell how one should set to work to bring about the said improvement; only of one thing am I certain: had I a daughter, and a suitor came "a-wooing," I should not look only to his houses and land, and satisfy myself of that superficially, but I should like to know a little of the private life, the inner existence of him who was anxious to rob me of that which I should love beyond "jewels, gold, or fine linen"-the treasure committed to me by God, and for which to him am I answerable. 
               I can swear to my philanthropic northern brethren that we sell a "slave" with more hesitation to a new owner than we give our girls in marriage. 
               Mr. Clarendon made no inquiries-instituted no researches; his first feeling of disappointment past, he soon grew reconciled to the engagement, and Clarence became a greater favorite than ever. Tracy was so respectful, so attentive, understood every thing so well; he never looked weary when Mr. Clarendon prosed about the "state of the country," or demurred when Mr. Clarendon assured him that without the South the North would go to the dogs-two things which William sometimes did. 
               Tracy was the firmest adherent, he thought, of the glory, rights, and power of Carolina. Tracy firmly swore to those opinions which that great man C--n put out for other people to believe, and to the truth of which Mr. Clarendon subscribed with as much fervency as he did to his Bible-consulting them, I am sorry to acknowledge, more frequently than he did the latter-and Tracy was as good a judge of horseflesh as Colonel W-- H-- himself. 
               Mrs. Clarendon was satisfied because Mr. Clarendon was; and at that particular moment her thoughts were bent on sausages. She, however, at once undertook to superintend all Lily's trousseau in the linen line, and immediately took two extra girls into the house, to be drilled in button-hole stitch, felling, and seaming, in readiness for the moment when their services should be needed. 
               Alicia rather turned up her nose, more than it was naturally, at Lily's choice. She was prepared for it, but scarcely approved. 
               "With Lily's fortune, I should aspire to a baronet's eldest son at least." 
               "Pooh! puss, you are a little simpleton," her father said. "A Carolina gentleman is equal to a nobleman." 
                
               The Purvises were very angry. They blamed the Clarendons-they vilified the Tracys-they wished to cut Nora-and called upon Angel to help abuse the whole business. "Such a shock to poor Gustavus!" wrote Sara to her sister; "we believe that Mr. Clarendon is involved, and that Clarence Tracy is to buy off his consent. It is a real case of bribery and coruption." 
               "Lily had no more idea of marrying Gustavus," said Mrs. Langdon, in her reply, "than of waiting for my demise to espouse Mr. Langdon. Don't be foolishly angry, my dear Sara (to please papa, isn't it? How many new ball-dresses does he give you?), and pray don't write corruption with one r." 
               Lily was happily indifferent to all these lamentations. By the time that these letters had been exchanged, they were in the country-not at Chicora, but on Mr. Clarendon's Santee estate-riding, driving, strolling, boating. Clarence and Nora were both of the party, and how merrily sped the days! 
               A Carolina Christmas is generally a beautiful season. The balmy, bracing, delicious atmosphere, cold enough, morning and evening, for fires, egg-nogg, and dancing, warm enough during the middle of the day to discard heavy wraps, and to wander about in the shady woods, with the long moss hanging in huge graceful pendents from the great trees, the red Christmas berries shining like rubies or coral in their green-leaved setting, and above one's head a blue sky so clear, so bright, so pure, so brilliant, that one almost longs to see a cloud to save one's dazzled eyes. 
               The crunching of the dead leaves beneath your feet sounds pleasant and cheerful. You can not associate autumn, dreary fancies, with this air, which answers to Lamartine's description, "tide et parfum," and every distant report of a hunter's gun seems a feu de joie to celebrate Nature's festival. 
               December is almost as gay and joyous an out-door month as April. 
               Alicia and Nora did not interfere with the lovers. Sometimes they would go "briding" with William and George, or they would stay at home and practice duets, or they would walk out together, and Alicia would give little Nora (who was the merest mite of a young woman) such accounts of her feats of strength and endurance as a polkense that Nora would lift her hands and eyes, and rise on the ends of her toes with amazement. 
               It was at Sunny Hill that the time of Lily's wedding was decided. She would be eighteen in April, and Clarence urged that she should fix on that month. Why wait? So it was settled they should be married on the 3d of April, spend the honeymoon at Chicora, and sail for a European tour in May. Nora was to go abroad with them, Lily was bent upon that. 
               "And may we not take Alicia, dear uncle?" Lily urged, when first the plan was spoken of. Alicia's eyes sparkled, and they all pleaded so earnestly that objections were overcome, reasons talked down, and never did a more prosperous, contented, and merry family party eat their Christmas turkey, and, a week after, drive into Charleston-hearty, healthy, happy-dreading no duns, independent of the world, at peace with all mankind. 
               Lily paused on the steps to say good-by to her betrothed, while Nora waited for him in the carriage at the door of Mr. Clarendon's house. 
               The servants were jostling and tumbling over each other, unloading the second carriage, answering a dozen different calls, receiving a dozen different orders. 
               "Please, Miss Lily, to take care," said old Jacob, as he stopped Bill and a basket from carelessly upsetting her. "These young niggers, now a days, hab no sort o' respec." 
               Clarence drew her out of the turmoil. They stood beside a luxuriant rose-bush, as full and fragrant as if December frost was a myth. 
               "This has been a happy month, dearest,"he whispered. 
               Beneath her bonnet, among her curls, were some clusters of flowers, now faded, which George had stuck there. 
               "Do you recollect giving me a bud from your wreath on May-day, when I was leaving for New Orleans? We had then spent just this length of time together, and were to separate for different roofs. My rough hand destroyed your garland then, and we all thought it a bad omen. Has it proved so? I took that flower with a half-formed wish. I have it still. Give me, my own Lily, another blossom to-day which your bright ringlets have adorned." 
               "Not a faded rose," she said, shaking her head, and tossing George's tokens to the ground; "but here, I give you this"-and she plucked a just opened bud. "I wish this very flower to be the centre ornament of the bouquet which custom ordains you to present to me on the 3d of April." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               RACE-WEEK is the only one of the fifty-two during which Charlestonians appear to give themselves up to amusement. Of course this does not include the whole population, nor even the half of it; for in many families the races are looked upon with extreme disfavor, and some churches distribute among their congregations about this period astounding tracts, headed "Horse-racing and Christian duties incompatible;" but, for the gayer (?) portion of the community, the first Wednesday in February is an exciting and often longed-for day. 
               The most inert of our fashionables 
                     "Give themselves a rousing shake,
                   and do very truly 
                     "Just at twelve awake,"
                   ready to imbibe a sufficient quantity of dissipation to last them for the ensuing year. 
               But the week is always ushered in the evening previous by a ball, which surely demands a eulogium at the hands of those who have danced in St. Andrew's Hall. 
               The St. Cecilia Society can look back to its birth and foundation with justifiable pride. Few societies at all, and none of this character, can so well challenge attention to its age, and to its uninterrupted course and prosperity. 
               The date on forks and spoons belonging to this power shows that, some eighty years since, the gentlemen of Charleston first organized a series of concerts, to be given for the amusement of the ladies, and to restrict its members to the lite of the city. 
               Thus arose its name. Dedicated to the saint of song, for many winters our grandmothers, after their afternoon drive and their cheering cup of tea, would flock, in brocades and powder, to listen to the sweet strains provided to beguile their weariness by the gallant gentlemen in velvet coats and queues. The hours were very early-they went at seven, and were at home by ten. 
               Presently there arose an innovation. St. Cecilia was not permitted to remain sole patroness of these entertainments. A heathen divinity, Terpsichore by name, divided the honors with the Christian maiden. After the concert, dancing was introduced, and minuets and country reels enlivened the scene. 
               Years passed, and, alas! Terpsichore shoved St. Cecilia into the background-out of the establishment. They treated her like a married woman, poor thing! They went to parties given in her name, in which she took no part. These assemblies have never been discontinued, nor have they ever fallen into disrepute. The managers have usually been young men of family and fashion; the subscribers to the society are voted for or blackballed by the members at their yearly meeting, and the invited ladies are those entitled to a place in any ball-room. 
               They have rules and regulations which are implicitly followed. Strangers (on their first visit), and officers of the army and navy, are always guests. They have the best music to be produced, and the very worst suppers. I am sorry to say this, but truth is my idol. 
               It must be allowed that if the St. Cecilia balls are still respectable and properly conducted, they can not boast as uncompromising an attention to the social position of its members as it once did. Almack's has long fallen; its glory lies only in recollection, and in that charming novel which has always furnished me a hero-(Lord George Fitzallen, with his gilded spurs, was my very first love); but so long as it was a force, a body, it kept up its aristocratic flavor. But it died out. Unlike many aristocratic houses of old England, it refused to prop its failing fortunes by the admixture of plebeian interests, and so the thing came to an end, and no one hears of Almack's now. Across the wide ocean, our little Almack's learned wisdom by others' experience-wise little St. Cecilia Almack's!-and there are habitus of its boards whom, some time since-well, well. The balls (there are three each winter) are very pleasant balls; but, for my part, I return to the suppers. I should like fewer attempts at "woodcock for the million," and a positive success at scalloped oysters. 
               Mrs. Clarendon kept her word. Not to her mind was it necessary to follow her girls to a ball-room; she saw them dressed, admired their toilettes, and when Mrs. Purvis's carriage stopped en passant, watched them enter the Clarendon coach with Willie, and then went to bed and to sleep. 
               Through a crowd of young gentlemen loitering in the entrance-hall, our cloaked up beauties hurriedly passed to the dressing-room. The attendant handmaidens relieved them of their wraps, and Sara put out her small feet to be disencumbered of her overshoes, while she scanned the looks of her companions. 
               But, first, I may as well describe Miss Purvis herself. I have been putting off this duty too long. 
               Sara Purvis was decidedly a fine-looking, high-bred girl. She was tall, and a little too thin, but so good were her proportions, that one excused her want of plumpness in consideration of the absence of sharp angles. Her skin was like white wax which has taken a straw-colored tint, quite transparent, smooth, and unblushing. She had handsome eyes, if one is not fastidious about a variety of expression, or any especial purpose in them, and her hair was beautifully black and glossy, like her sister's. She was particularly proud of her mouth, which she fancied to be of a coupe aristocratique, and carried her nose, which her anteadmirers called enormous, with a very lofty air. She dressed with taste and style, laughed a good deal where she wished to pass for good-natured (with young men of fortune), and was unutterably empty-headed, vain, and frivolous. Had she been clever, she would have been a dangerous woman; but, devoid of talent, she was only disagreeably malicious. 
               From her earliest childhood she had disliked Lily, but she was afraid of Alicia, who never hesitated to snap at her, if she gave occasion for it. 
               To-night every body was in good humor. That martyr, Mrs. Purvis, had every reason to be satisfied with the youthful becomingness of her gown and other "fixtures," and Sara knew very well that she was looking her prettiest in a Frenchified costume trimmed with autumn leaves frosted with dew, and mingled with crimson ribbons and gold pendents. 
               But how do justice to Lily? In white, of course-such a snow-wreath of a dress, all soft and vapory, like the clouds that drift across a blue sky on a bright day, with large bouffantes that fell with irregular grace around her skirt, and were looped up with fringes of white bugles and feathery sprays. 
                
               She was simple, exquisite, spirit-like, and might have sat for the portrait of la Fe aux Perles. Alicia sparkled in a yellow silk, with red velvet cactuses drooping on either side of her broad, shining bandeaux.
                
               "All right," said Mrs. Purvis, nodding her head approvingly; "very nice, upon my word. I have been so ill all day I scarcely thought that I should come to-night; but, really, I am called upon to make sacrifices of my health which would kill any other woman. Dr. Jobbers says it is my nerve and spirits that keep me up-nothing else. I have eaten nothing this day." 
               "Except a hearty breakfast and a very hearty dinner," muttered Sara. "Come, mamma," she faintly continued, "shall we spend the night in the cloakroom?" 
               "No, indeed, my beauty. I am ready." 
               How many beating hearts, fluttering in the bosoms of dbutantes, have trembled up that 
                     staircaise
                     staircase
                  ! 
               That hall is the first battle-field of our young Amazons who go forth to conquer the male sex. Their success or failure is determined within those walls. She is predestined to rule who finds herself engaged at least "six deep" before she smooths out her skirts for her first quadrille, and she is a wall-flower for life who passes her evening on one of those very hard chairs planted around the room. 
               Sully's portrait of Victoria dominates the crowd at the upper end of the hall; a string of likenesses, representing the series of Presidents of the St. Andrew's Society (to whom the hall belongs), line the walls, and a carpet upon the floor gives a drawing-room look to this festive spot. 
               I went to one of these balls once. Alas! the seats are very uncomfortable, and I had no other experience. My chaperon was very kind, and not satisfied with the small effect that I produced. She varied my position as much as she could, so as to bring out my best points. Sometimes she engaged me in conversation, to exhibit my intellectual expression; then she encouraged a pensive, down-cast seriousness, to show my eyelashes, which are rather long: it was all in vain. No young man flew to secure my hand for the "mazy dance." 
               "Stand up, my dear," she said, presently. 
               I timidly obeyed. 
               "Sit down again," she added, after a while, and sighed hopelessly. It was of no use. 
               Then she signaled a manager and whispered a few words. I felt my cheeks tingle, for I guessed what was coming. 
               The manager bowed and hurried off. I could see him earnestly appeal to a dandified youth, who looked at me through an eye-glass, and evidently bade his managerial friend "to go (playfully) to the--." 
               Then the gentleman in office collared a grave young man in spectacles, with frizzly hair, and lugged him along. My destined partner was too polite to struggle. He had large, projecting knees, and helpless hands. 
               "Miss --, Dr. Larned." 
               "Allow me the pleasure of dancing with you," he said, sepulchrally. 
               "No, I thank you," I answered, hurriedly. He was so unprepared for my reply that he held out his arm, and my chaperon nudged me. 
               "I'd rather not. Do, please, let him go," I said, imploringly, in a low voice. 
               The manager released his victim, and with another bow the large knees returned to their former position in the door-way. 
                
               That was my first and last ball. 
               I am not courageous and not over patient. From the beginning of that entertainment I wondered who was to take us to supper. The result showed me that a manager took my chaperon on one arm and me on the other. I could not hope for this luck at every ball, and, as I said before, the chairs are not cushioned, so I have never been to a second "St. Cecilia," and the truth is, my kind friend, Mrs. --, has never urged me to do so. 
               However, I meant to tell about Lily's ball, not about mine, which had preceded hers by some years. 
               "There is Miss Vere! How beautiful she is!" murmured some voices, enthusiastically, as they entered. 
               Then Alicia's eyes flashed from under her black brows a few side glances, and Sara put up her head with the craning motion peculiar to her, and leveled her lorgnon here and there with a disdainful haughtiness she copied from Angel, and the crowd wavered in their first allegiance, and chorused forth their admiration for the two other beauties. 
               They were the belles of the room. Lily's engagement was, as yet, scarcely believed in; it was not so certain, so positive, at any rate, as her thousands, and she was surrounded. 
               But, I say it with pride, I believe there are few cities in the world where mere fortune so slightly influences ball-room attractions and belleship, or even solid courtship. It is not the young lady with the wealthiest papa who receives most declarations and is most attended to. Heiresses have often been left to faire tapisserie, while girls in plain white muslins have danced into the hearts of the flower of chivalry and Charleston. 
                
               It used to be said, "in the days when I was young," that never "had there been known in our city an heiress who was a belle, nor a belle who was an heiress." 
               They tell me this is changed now, and that "money" rules here as elsewhere. Gold whitens dark faces and brightens dull eyes. "Papa's plantations" send mademoiselle home danced to death, while pretty Clara, in her cheap tarlatane, has had no chance to cope with her plain neighbor. 
               It may be that the "rich girl" was just as agreeable as Clara, and it would be equally hard that her papa's purse should render her ineligible as a belle: would it not? 
               A word to a stranger, though, on this topic. Let not the "cheap tarlatane," if joined, too, to a pretty face, deceive you. Don't pass the wearer over as a "losing business." Many of our "finest people," with the longest credit at their factors' and bankers', dress like dowdies, and wear gowns which fadedly proclaim the worthy endurance of the original stuff. Their income is so well known-they are so thoroughly respectable, that "outward show" is not necessary. 
               Let doubtful credit display glistening freshness-established position can spare the expense. They call it "sparing the trouble," and dye their old dresses. 
               Clarence Tracy was a great favorite in his own circle. Out of his own circle he was called a tuft-hunter sometimes, and before he went abroad a few young men used to be very satirical about his boyish preferences; for he had mixed a good deal in society at an early age, and that last winter of Angel's girlhood he had first learned to admire her stateliness in ballrooms, before he met her at Chicora. 
               Clarence maintained that he had a right to give his attentions where it suited him to do so, and now, on his re-entrance into the same atmosphere, he again singled out his former fancies. 
               Margaret Oakes was one of them. He admired her cold, collected manner, and the unsoftening indifference of her tone. She took no pains, like Angel, to make conquests; she was not popular; she had few favorites, and Clarence liked the distinction of being one of them. 
               After dancing with Lily, he sought Miss Oakes, who welcomed him with a smile, and made room beside her for him to sit down. 
               "Tell me about Angelica," she said; "are you good friends still?" 
               "Very. I admire her, as ever." 
               "You look foreign, do you know? I don't like your style much. You have a Frenchy look." 
               "I am very sorry, for I have a young Frenchman on my hands who arrived this morning, and for whom I must do the honors of our city. He will be here presently, and I wished to present him to one of our fairest ornaments; but if you dislike a 'Frenchy look,' you will frown down my vicomte. What shall I do for him?" 
               "Who is he?" 
               "Le Vicomte Marc d'Ambermesnil." 
               "Come to marry a fortune? Introduce him to Lily Vere." 
               "Thank you; I'd rather not." 
               "Then your engagement is positive?" 
               Clarence bowed. Margaret's eyebrows contracted. 
               "She is very sweet-looking-clever, is she not?" 
               "Not what people usually call clever. She has not a brilliant mind, but a great deal of good sense." 
                
               "Oh, of course she is clever enough for her condition. You are fortunate, Mr. Tracy. You do not like hard work-you are a little lazy; what a pleasant thing to find such a ready-made income, with only the trouble of asking for it." 
               Clarence winced. This was but the beginning of his experience in marrying an heiress. He thought Margaret Oakes looked old; he was sure she said disagreeable things, but he was too much a man of the world to resent them or to show his pique. 
               "There comes my vicomte. Let me introduce him to Miss Clarendon, and then may I return and dance with you?" 
               Margaret agreed, and thought within herself, "I shall say something more before I have done with you." 
               She did not even mentally add the reason, which was, that, since Mr. Henry Clarendon's legacy, she had contemplated keeping his godson for herself. 
               During his introduction of the stranger, who was rather an agreeable-looking man, to the willing Alicia, Margaret said a few words to Sara, who moved with her partner toward the end of the room where the presentation had taken place. 
               "Is it a real vicomte, Mr. Tracy?" whispered Sara, insinuatingly. 
               "Real, fresh, lively, and just landed. Mon cher," added Clarence, in French, "permit that I increase your happiness by naming you to Miss Purvis." 
               Sara's tongue, outside of her own vernacular, was somewhat limited, but she struggled through a phrase or two, and after promising a polka to the vicomte, she left him to Alicia and went off. 
               Lily's evening was placid and pleasant. She was enjoying the ball in her own way, when Sara sauntered up and said, in a nonchalant tone, 
               "Has Mr. Tracy introduced his Frenchman to you?" 
               "No." 
               "That is singular. They are very intimate. They used to live together at Baden-Baden, the vicomte tells me." 
               Lily, who never forgot what she had heard fall from Clarence, immediately conjectured that this must be the gentleman who sealed their acquaintance by afterward launching Clarence in Paris; but Baden recalled play-debts and saddened her face. 
               "Maggie Oakes looks very handsome to-night. Clarence is quite devoted. He has danced twice with her." 
               Two thrusts. Lily knew very well what jealousy is. Sara had spoiled her pleasure. Why did not Clarence introduce his friend? Was he afraid of a Frenchman's indiscreet talk? And why need he hang so earnestly over Miss Oakes? 
               But at supper-time Clarence was punctually at his post, spoke carelessly and naturally of Margaret, and when Lily asked him about his foreign friend, said that he was a good, empty-headed sort of a fellow, who would in no wise interest her. He did very well for Alicia to make eyes at. 
               And did not Alicia make eyes at her new conquest? This was the moment when Mrs. Clarendon should have been at hand, with her maternal energies brought to bear upon her daughter's actions and engagements. 
               Who was there to direct, to warn, to counsel, or to ward off? Mrs. Purvis had enough to do to take an occasional inventory of Sara's tablette de bal. She sat in the scanty line of dowagers (of whom there are about three to every thirty young ladies), and gossiped, and bemoaned herself, and boasted of Angel's New York house, and thought how immeasurably superior her appearance was to her co-mates. For it is amazing to see how economically the chaperons get themselves up. In fact, I have often thought, from what I have heard, and what I have witnessed at my ball, that there ought to be a "theatrical wardrobe" kept in the cloak-rooms, in which the chaperons might be invested each evening. There are so few of them, and their business is such a regular one, that subscriptions ought to be taken up among the damsels whom they convoy to dress these ladies properly for their "parts." It injures the look of the thing to see, scattered about the walls, a worthy matron or so in shawls and caps of such strict simplicity. 
               Willie Clarendon was too busy with his own partners. He saw other young ladies going about with "no mammas," and he supposed it "was all right." 
               Lily dared not interfere with Alicia, and, besides, it was impossible to answer all the demands upon her own time. She was very much liked, very much sought after. Clarence made it a point, and told himself and her that it was a sacrifice, not to hang about his fiance in society. He had a large number of sentimental friendships-Margaret Oakes headed the band-and he was always deep in talk with one or other of these young ladies. Lily had an uneasy feeling about it, but she would have scorned to be jealous, exacting, or suspicious. The soft eyes followed her lover hither and thither, and she put down the rising thought that she was not necessary to his amusement with irritation at her own unworthiness. It was instinct working within her, and she considered it an ungenerous and unfeminine emotion. 
                
               Strange, is it not? that so often in this world we see this unaccountable fact! It is not the woman most worthy to be loved who is the most loved. I have seen treasures of affection lavished, wasted upon a flirt-a heartless recipient-while a tender, loving creature, fair as her neighbor, and giving her own pure and entire devotion to the chosen one, is looked upon with lukewarm regard. I have seen wives whose past existence has been one series of well-performed duties-and duties, too, which were not only all duty: they have been misunderstood, disregarded, neglected by men who, perhaps, when they bury these uncared-for companions, love, marry, and cherish others, who could in no wise compare with their predecessors. 
               Lily, with all her gifts, failed to inspire a love equal to that which she gave. Why was it? I can not tell. Her beauty, her freshness, her sweetness, her gentleness were indisputable. Clarence acknowledged their undoubted existence; he fancied himself desperately in love; he would have fought the man who questioned his affection; he would have been plunged in grief had a quarrel arisen between Lily and himself; but he did not feel for her that yearning, insatiable, unsatisfying sentiment that makes up a love which is worth inspiring. 
               And what is more, I say candidly I do not believe that any man would have loved Lily as she ought to have been loved. Let novelists write about the passion called forth by ingenuous, unsophisticated, unworldly beings: it is mere curiosity-a desire to rifle the bud of its untouched bloom. Men marry these girls or these women-for innocence is not a mere matter of age or circumstance, and a grandmother may be more truly innocent, the innocence of the heart, than a maiden of fifteen-men marry these, and have immense respect for them, and "think highly of them," and honor them as the mothers of their children; but, if they are gay and "fast" men, they soon return to their old, merry, wicked loves-some haughty, worthless coquette, some dashing, daring jilt, or some sighing, sentimental sylph; if they are staid and proper men, with principles and a sense of justice, they try to banish recollections of other eyes and other hands, and they conceal from "Madame" (who is often happily unconscious) that there are nooks in their hearts where lurk buried sighs and hopes, and niches where stand statues that have foreign names upon their base. I take the liberty to lay it down as an axiom that no woman is heartily loved unless she has a spice of the devil in her. Dispute it-you can't refute it. 
               I know that some men will say contemptuously, "it is a different sort of love." I am aware of the fact, but the most virtuous of her sex prefers "a different sort of love" to the love which she often receives in return for her whole love. 
               Lily was one of these women. She had every virtue, every charm; she was destined to be regarded with holy admiration; but Angelica would bind a man to her with chains of iron and clasps of steel, while Lily's power was no stronger than the circlet formed by her two white arms. 
               I am wandering from the ball-room, and prosing unmercifully. 
               The last waltz was over; Alicia stood in the entrance-hall, her arch face peeping from beneath her pink nubie as she gave her fan and bouquet to the Vicomte Marc to hold while she crossed the swan's down of her Opera cloak over her dimpled shoulders. 
                
               "I may offer mes homages to-morrow to Mademoiselle?" said M. D'Ambermesnil, interrogatively. 
               "On the race-course," assented Alicia, smilingly. "Our bets will be decided there before we can meet elsewhere." 
               "Ah, yes! I had forgotten. In some company one forgets every thing." 
               Mrs. Purvis bustled along, swathed like Gliddon's mummy, and calling vociferously for her charges. 
               "Elle est riche, cette charmante jeune personne? n'est ce pas, Tracy?" 
               Clarence was thinking of Lily, who had asked where he got the vinaigrette whose odor she perceived as he put her in the carriage. 
               "Immensement, mon cher," he answered. 
               "Voil mon affaire," muttered the viscount, as he lit his cigar. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               A DARK green landau, with servants in bright olive livery, with gold bands, and containing three ladies, followed by a light coup, in which sat two other ladies, took the road for the race-ground. 
               What beautiful, cheery weather! Very little dust, a clear sky, an unclouded sun, and no wind. 
               Such days are rare, and ought to be remembered with delight, besides being enjoyed at the time. The road was full of horsemen, carriages, buggies, and carts. Omnibuses rumbled along, foot-passengers strode bravely forward, and the negroes were, as usual, the loudest and most conspicuous partakers in the pleasures of the day. 
               Plato and Sambo, on the box, made bets as they drove along, and the little ragged darkies hurraed the finest vehicles, and "chaffed" the comical with as much unconcern as if they had a "paid" part in the procession. 
               Under the oaks skirting Loundes's Grove (one of the prettiest little scraps of a drive in the neighborhood), and through the gate labeled conspicuously "Entrance for Members' Carriages," drove the landau and the coup. The coachmen showed their tickets, and, with a dash, bowled up under the covered doorway of the ladies' stand. 
               Members of the club, with the red ribbon fluttering at their button-hole, and strangers with a white ribbon, marking their position, sauntered about, or talked eagerly, or looked anxious, and bowed to their fair partners of the previous evening with smiles which they hoped hid the tremors they suffered lest Pretty Poppet should be beaten by Colonel --'s filly. 
               Mr. Clarendon sported a red and white cockade as one of the stewards. 
               "Take care how you bet, puss," he said to Alicia, as she sprang last from the landau, after Mrs. Purvis and Sara. "You will ruin me with your glove-bill if you trust to Pretty Poppett's clean legs. She isn't strong in the pasterns," he whispered. "Take Colonel --'s filly against the field. Where is Lily?" 
               "Here, sir. Grace Meredith is with me," said Lily from the coup, as Sambo hastily opened the door, eager to have them out, and to be off himself to secure a good "stand" for the race. 
               Our old friend Grace was as lively and frolicsome as she had been at the May party. Lily and she had just met for the first time since they had each leaped from girlhood to young womanhood. Grace had arrived late on Tuesday evening from the country-too late for the ball, which she regretted with great fervor, but not too late to unpack a box of New York finery awaiting her at home, and to make her appearance this morning in "a love of a bonnet," which Lily had chosen for her, with the assistance of Angel's taste. 
               "Who is that wonderful dandy, looking like a dyspeptic peacock?" she whispered to Lily as they stepped out of the carriage. 
               "A Frenchman-le Vicomte d'Ambermesnil." 
               "I don't like his looks. And who is that supercilious, black-browed-" 
               "Why, Grace!" 
               "Heavens! it is Clarence Tracy!" 
               She glanced merrily at Lily, and shook hands with Clarence. 
                
               William Clarendon she received with unqualified approbation. 
               He offered her his arm as they all went up the staircase. 
               "You have not grown much, Miss Grace, in the five years that I have been away," he said. 
               "If I could borrow the ends of your mustache for the top of my head, I should be tall enough," answered Grace, saucily. 
               "You are all such fairies of ladies! There is Alicia, she is not more than four feet high, and Nora Tracy, and you. I keep on looking at you, and wondering when you will grow up." 
               "Your mind's eye is filled with stalwart German vrws and big Englishwomen, I suppose. But there is Lily. She is tall enough to insure your admiration. Why don't you make her your model." 
               "Oh! Lily is an exception to all rules," said William, gravely. "I would sooner say my prayers to Lily than fall in love with her. She is lovely, but too spiritual for me." 
               "Lovely is the word, indeed, that best suits her," said Grace, enthusiastically. "Do you know, Mr. Clarendon, I can't understand her engagement? Is Clarence Tracy worthy of such a prize?" 
               "She thinks so," answered Willie, evasively. "But I could not give an impartial opinion, Miss Grace. Clarence has cut me out with my father's ward." 
               Grace turned her mutable Irish face toward him. 
               "Truly?" 
               "No, indeed. I do but jest. Lily was always, in spite of her fewer years, my senior in gravity and wisdom. When I came home the other day, I was dazzled by her peculiar beauty; but, besides seeing at once that she and Clarence were on the eve of an engagement, I was, indeed, only dazzled. She looks to me like a snowbank with the sun upon it. There is a deal of warmth in the earth below, but too much unbroken calm above." 
               "Not to my mind. She is like a bank of violets on a spring day-cool, green, modest, refreshing, and giving the perfume of her presence and her kindness to every comer. But we are getting wretchedly poetic and prosaic. Let me do the honors of the ladies' stand, built since you left. How do you like it?" 
               This was not Grace's first winter in society; she had come out the preceding year, and William thought her a very agreeable girl as they strolled up and down the long hall, which opens with many doors upon the covered platform whence the ladies enjoy the race. 
               "The horses are saddling!" some one cries; and numerous flirtations, carried on behind parasols in the doorways, or upon the settees scattered in the hall, are hastily suspended for the moment. 
               It is a charming sight, these rows upon rows of fresh young faces. With little exclamations at the glare of sunlight, they venture out upon the platform to look at the horses (which, enveloped in their blankets, "wonderfully resemble burnoused Bedouins on all fours," Grace Meredith said), and consult their cards, and risk bonbons and gloves, and change their minds, and "hedge" shamefully, as it is a woman's privilege to do. 
               Then they consult some knowing old steward, who answers at random and hurries off, being seen presently, whip in hand and hands in pocket, earnestly discoursing turfy-looking individuals on "the ground" below. 
               There are a great many children scampering about, who are stuffed with unwholesome tarts, and threaten to precipitate themselves out of the clutch of "mamma" in the stand upon the head of "papa" on the turf. 
               The red flag waves from the judges' "perch;" there is a rush to the members' stand, which is next the ladies', and in which congregate those sheepish gentlemen who "avoid society" and frequent dinners; a great deal of confusion, a loud voice dominating the crowd, 
               "Keep back! stand back! clear the way, there!" 
               The horses are off-and I shall not attempt to describe a race. 
               "Is it not exciting?" cries Alicia, clapping her little lemon-colored kids; "mais vous ne regardez point les chevaux, Monsieur?" 
               Le Vicomte Marc's stake is not on the running horses. He is playing for higher game, and fixes his eyes upon the fancied heiress, and not upon the slender legs of Pretty Poppet. 
               "Have you bet much, Clarence?" asks Lily, hesitatingly. 
               "A mere trifle." 
               'Tis the first heat-here they come. Pretty Poppet wins; the young ones who are against her are in despair, but the older hands know the effect of four miles repeated, and are quite sure still. 
               The gentle little Southerners are aroused. Their pale cheeks flush, and they chatter like magpies. 
               Every body walks in the long hall, and sweetly unconscious of her superiority Sara tries to look as she is attended by three gentlemen, while Alicia only has her Frenchman's arm. 
               But put the title in the scale, and Sara kicks the beam! 
               The second heat is at hand, and the same performances ances are re-enacted, only there is a little more bustle in the members' stand, for many "stiffish drinks" have been swallowed, and there seem to be more legs and arms in the crowd than there were before. 
               Two of the horses are withdrawn, three remain-the contest is over, Pretty Poppet comes in victorious, the knowing ones are "bit," and Mr. Clarendon wants to be savage, but can't manage it very well, when Alicia says to him, with charming archness, 
               "And how about her pasterns, papa?" 
               "Ain't you sorry it is not a broken heat, Miss Clarendon?" yawns Alfred Greville, who is very blas about races, having joined the club the day before; "we consider this a dead failure. A man can't get up an excitement on so little staple. Going to stay for the next race?" 
               "It depends on Mrs. Purvis." 
               "Better stay-aw-I drove up with Gustavus. How mad he is about Tracy! says Miss Vere might as well have married some confounded beggarly Frenchman like that man Tracy-" 
               "Mr. Purvis had better choose more discreet confidants," said Alicia, glancing toward her companion; and Mr. Greville, discovering his mistake, blushed furiously and backed out. 
               The drive into town is never so pleasant as the drive out. Every body is tired, and some people have lost money, but it is very gay and bright nevertheless; and with an occasional threat from Mrs. Purvis that she would probably faint from exhaustion (which she did not do), the party got safely home. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               IT could not possibly interest you, my dear reader, for me to procure the minute, uninterrupted detail of this winter's campaign. 
               The young ladies danced at balls, Lily received two formal declarations, and Alicia flirted incessantly with the vicomte. 
               One of these declarations was from her cousin Gustavus. This young gentleman was considered by his family "the first match in the state." We have all of us seen a good many such "first matches," and they seemed to think that Lily could not have thoroughly understood that she might have Gustavus, or she would never have accepted Clarence. 
               Gustavus was a weakly, well-disposed youth, with a gentlemanly carriage and pretty features. He made great use of an eye-glass, and very little of his tongue. Lily listened to him with much amazement when he declared himself. 
               "But, Gustavus," she said, with calm honesty, "you know that I am engaged?" 
               "Yes; but mother said I had better try." 
               Lily could not help smiling. 
               "And, my dear Lily," Gustavus went on, "I do not feel quite at liberty to explain, but in your present choice you have been hasty. Mr. Tracy is-" 
               "It is very unbecoming your position at this moment to attempt to speak against a gentleman of whom you can know nothing, which would be injurious to him," interrupted Lily, warmly. 
               "I am one of your nearest relations, Lily," said Gustavus tavus, who had been strongly "crammed" by Mrs. Purvis and Sara, "which is my excuse. I renounce all hope of recommending my love to you, but I should advise you to make a few inquiries as to how many gambling debts Tracy owes, and where-" 
               Lily rose abruptly. 
               "Not one word more." 
               "What is the bond between this French adventurer and himself? He encourages his attentions to Alicia Clarendon because he is afraid to thwart him-" 
               "Gustavus, you are my mother's nephew; you have been put up to this; you would never have imagined such insults yourself. Our near relationship, which you make an excuse for uncalled-for interference, is my reason for forgiving it. But this conversation ends here, and any attempt at renewal will force me to decline your acquaintance, and to inform my uncle and Mr. Tracy of the cause." She bowed with dignity, and an angered loftiness most foreign to her sweet face, and joined Alicia, who was lounging on an ottoman near, in the ball-room, which was the scene of Gustavus's defeat. 
               Alicia was whispering and coquetting with the vicomte, and seemed not over-delighted at Lily's advent; but as another gentleman soon came up to ask Miss Vere for a promised dance, Alicia forgot all about her, and continued her flirty dialogue. 
               Lily was silent and distraite, worried and ill at ease. The new-comer was fortunately a great talker, so she assumed a listening attitude, and put in a word or two at random. 
               "It is now at the close of the season; the weather is growing warm, and the parties few, Miss Vere; have you enjoyed your winter?" 
                
               "Very much." 
               "I believe every body has. And we have had so many new beauties this year!" 
               "Oh! I am afraid, when it comes to the last," said Alicia, in a very low voice, and in French. "Papa is very indulgent; his consent would not be difficult." 
               "There is Miss Purvis; but she came out last year. By the way-" 
               Lily was listening again to Alicia; she could not hear M. D'Ambermesnil. 
               "Why not wait? Even if he refuses at first, I am young enough not to marry so soon, and can bring him round in time." 
               Lily's heart almost stopped beating. It was not honorable to overhear Alicia, but for worlds she could not have desisted. 
               "How lively Miss Meredith is, too!" said the valuable dealer in commonplaces. "She does rattle so!" 
               "Ah, monsieur! ah, Marc!" Alicia murmured, "do not doubt me. Well, I promise. To-morrow, then." 
               "Ange!" exclaimed her companion, as the first notes of a waltz sounded, and he arose to offer her his arm. Her skirt was beneath Lily's foot; she disengaged it without looking up, and went off. 
               Lily's partner prosed on, and Lily felt so ill, so helpless, that at last Mr. Morton's eyes were opened to her pallid cheeks. 
               "You feel badly; you are fatigued. Shall I get you any thing?" 
               "Only a glass of water; and will you call Mr. William Clarendon for me?" 
               Clarence came up. 
               "You look ill, darling." 
               "I am not ill, but bored," said Lily, smiling faintly. 
                
               "It must be a bad case, if you acknowledge it." 
               "Clarence, do you owe any money to that Vicomte d'Ambermesnil? Has he any hold upon you of any sort?" 
               "None whatever," said Clarence, coldly and decidedly. "You begin your interrogations early." 
               "Forgive me, my love," Lily said, with disarming sweetness; "why will the world invent scandals against the innocent?" 
               "And why will the most innocent of all women believe scandals? Had you asked me about Ambermesnil more particularly than you did, I could have added to my previous information, that he is of undoubted good family and position, the fact that he is also too fond of card-playing and dissipation to suit your rigid notions." 
               "And you have allowed him to tie himself to Alicia's sleeve?" 
               "My dear Lily, Alicia tied him there herself. I did not warn her about him, but I told Mr. Clarendon that he was not a saint-that he was a gay, good-for-nothing dandy of high family. Willie knows all about him. Sara Purvis has made Gustavus pick his brains of every thing she could get hold of, and Alicia has chosen to dance with him, and to walk with him, and to philander with him, and none of them have interfered. It is the custom in this country for young ladies to make their own associates: it was not my place to snub off from Alicia a man who had been personally kind to me in Paris. Well, Willie, what is it?" 
               "I obey Miss Vere's orders. Speak, queen of this night. Morton says you are the most agreeable young lady in the room, with the finest mind, and sent for me. Was it to enjoy your fine mind that you wished me?" 
                
               "I want to get home. Do see if Alicia is ready." 
               As Clarence told her good-night, Lily whispered, 
               "How delightful it is to think that whenever I begin to fancy you have done something wrong, you can always reassure me, and never fail to show that I only am always wrong when I doubt you." 
               Clarence pressed the soft hand which lay so tenderly in his. 
               "She is as good as she is beautiful, as beautiful as she is lovable, as lovable as any one woman can be," thought Clarence, as he buttoned his overcoat; "I was born under a lucky star. Ha, Marc! o vas-tu? Combattre le tigre?" translating our American slang. 
               "Non, mon cher; comme vous, je me range." 
               "Mais, moi, je me marie." 
               "Eh bien!" answered the vicomte, shrugging his shoulders; "perhaps I do as much. Bon soir." 
               "What the devil does he mean?" muttered Clarence. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               THE clock of St. Michael's church, which regulates Charleston time, had chimed three quarters past three when Lily opened the door communicating between her room and Alicia's. 
               Alicia's head was suddenly raised from her pillow, and she called out, 
               "Is that you, Lily? What is the matter?" 
               Lily's hand trembled as she put down her candlestick upon the toilet-table, and then approached the bed. 
               "What is it?" asked Alicia, peevishly. "If you wish to play ghost or Somnambula, my dear, pray do not choose a ball-night, when I have danced my feet tired and myself sleepy." 
               "I am going to play, I fear, a very thankless part. Dear, thoughtless, reckless Alice, what is the meaning of that 'to-morrow' which I heard you utter as a promise to M. D'Ambermesnil?" 
               The blood rushed impetuously into Alicia's face, as she angrily exclaimed, 
               "Upon my honor, Lily, you seem to watch me very closely. Is this to be a Harry Barclay business over again? Is it your 'mission,' think you, to dog my foot-steps and to pry into my concerns? Your interference annoys me-your questions bore me; have the goodness to let me alone. I presume I may make engagements for a walk without telling you of it. Where are you going now? What is the matter with you?" 
               She caught Miss Vere's hand. 
                
               "I shall consult your mother in the morning. I am no tale-bearer, my love, but circumstances force me to interfere where I could not conscientiously avoid it." 
               "Stop. The fact is-oh Lily!" and Alicia burst into tears. 
               With Lily's kind arms around her, with Lily's white cheek pressed to hers, as it always had been in Alicia's childish troubles, so it was now. Her petulance was over, and she confessed the folly she was on the eve of committing. She had promised this Frenchman to elope with him the following day. 
               "We were to be married; he had engaged a clergyman to perform the ceremony, and I should have come back to ask papa's and mamma's pardon." 
               "Did you think it romantic to do so disgraceful a thing, Alice?" 
               "I did not think at all." 
               "Are you in love with him?" 
               "Well, I don't know. He is very agreeable, and then I should like to be a vicomtesse; and he is certainly handsome, and it would be very nice to live in Europe." 
               "Like Cecilia Langdon; you know she is the Comtesse de Montanvert. She has a happy mnage." 
               Alicia flouted. 
               "I don't think any man would have a chance of neglecting me, or the wish either," she added, with a pretty grimace. 
               "Why did not this gentleman ask my uncle's consent? why must your marriage be secret?" 
               "Marc says his family have other views for him, and would never agree to his marrying an American. Papa will require letters and recognition from them, which he is sure they will demur about giving. He thought it much better to have the business over, and then, when it was done, why it was done, and both sides would be obliged to be reconciled to it. Papa would never hold out against me, and his papa would never have an objection when once he looked into the lovely face of his new daughter-in-law." 
               "Those were his reasons?" 
               "Yes, and very sufficient ones." 
               "Not to my mind. Trust me with this business. If you and M. D'Ambermesnil are seriously attached, a little opposition will not destroy your affection. If he is worthy of you, he will be willing to suffer a little for your sake. Think for a moment, dear Alicia. You were going to wound, in the unkindest and most careless manner, parents who have delighted throughout your whole life to make you happy. Imagine the mortification to them. In a momentary caprice, you behave with the most cruel want of confidence. Tell M. D'Ambermesnil that it is impossible. If he hopes to gain you, he must strive for you." 
               "I don't think papa will like him." 
               "I don't think he will give papa a chance. There are rumors concerning the vicomte-I do not wish to hurt you, Alice-but I doubt if he will ever come boldly forward to claim you." 
               "Lily, you are absurd!" 
               "Alicia, you are thoughtless beyond belief. Life is to you the veriest child's game. To one who did not know you as I do, your conduct would appear utterly impossible. A vision of Paris, the jingle of a title, the flattery of a well-looking young man, have caused you to forget that this stranger is indeed a stranger; that this step is a step for life. You have not engaged yourself for a dance, for a drive, but for a sacred and ever-enduring tie. You enter into it as lightly as you would put on your ball-dress. When will you learn, dear, that this world and its emotions and actions are solemn things?" 
               "You are a solemn thing." 
               "I am. I think I feel deeply. I hope I do. I love you deeply. Oh, listen to me, dear one, here, with your head upon my shoulder. Did you say your prayers to-night, Alice? Did you pray for the man you were about to marry? Did his name arise with your thoughts to God? Always mistrust those important events which you do not connect with God's blessing. It is a simple test. Do not weep so bitterly, my little one. It is only an imprudence now, and we shall set it all right again." 
               "You are so good-I am so naughty," murmured penitent Alicia. "Brought up together, with the same care, the same attention, you always go right and I always go wrong. I must be very wicked." 
               "Not so very wicked, dear. We have not the same temptations. Our characters and tastes are different. I have no leaning for the things which please you. I am not obliged to conquer fancies and to put down thoughts which arise in you. I am not brilliant; I don't shine in society. My mind is indolent, and it would give me no pleasure to dazzle people as you do. I deserve no credit for being a little prudent and discreet, because I am naturally quiet." 
               "You are very good," repeated Alicia. 
               "I have been very fortunate in some things," said Lily, with her gentle smile. "God deprived me of both my parents, but he gave me a kind friend in your father, and he early opened my eyes to my own faults. When I was a little girl I was inclined to be very conceited ceited. You were always in scrapes, and I was always praised for my goodness. I began to think myself quite a model; but one day, when you were kept in at school for some freak, and I came home with a ticket of good behavior, my uncle noticed my self-satisfied smile, and he said to me, 'Don't imagine, Lily, that you deserve a great deal more credit than poor Alicia. She is too lively, and you are very demure. If you had the same wish to be frisky, you would have found it a hard matter to get that ticket.' It was an unusual thing for my uncle to make such a reproof. I thought of it a long time, and the longer I live the truer I find it. We see people with different natures, different positions, under different circumstances, and we measure them all by the same rule, giving praise to the results without looking into the causes." 
               Lily smoothed Alicia's glossy hair and kissed her on the eyelids. 
               "So it is, dearest, that I blame you less than I would another. You have impulses stronger than principles. I am very sure that, after consenting to this mad step, you felt to-night very much inclined to withdraw." 
               "Indeed I did; and I feel so much happier now, I longed to tell you. If mamma had the habit of looking after us-" 
               Lily laid her hand on the daughter's lips. 
               "We measure all by the same rule. My aunt must not be blamed for us, dear. Will you write three lines to the vicomte now? One of the servants will take the note to him in the morning." 
               "What shall I write?" 
               "Simply, 'If M. D'Ambermesnil will call on Miss Clarendon at one o'clock, she will explain why she has broken her engagement.'" 
                
               "I don't care much to see him." 
               "Alicia!" cried Lily; "and yet-" 
               "You see, dear Lily, it was the romance and the mystery of the thing-" 
               "I see, dear Alice, that you are a child who is utterly unfit to use the woman's privileges with which you are intrusted. Ah! if your heart could really be touched-if you could meet with one for whom a perfect esteem would be the basis of your love, and whom you could with pride present to your parents, then I should have no fears for you. Let this be a warning. See how dangerous it is to be led on step by step in the foolish path of flirtation. Scorn such hackneyed means of being admired, and live for higher aims than ball-room triumphs." 
               Lily's soft eyes glowed, her voice faltered; she was thinking of Clarence. She saw herself his honored and beloved wife, cheering him in worldly trials, comforting him when Heaven's blows should fall, aiding him in their mutual path of duty, and supported by him in all and through all. 
               A knock resounded upon the ceiling from the bedroom above. 
               "Girls," came Mrs. Clarendon's voice, faintly, "go to sleep!" 
               The note was written and given to Lily; then the thoughtless Alicia turned over for a sound nap, the last thought in her mind being, 
               "What will Marc do? Will he really ask papa, or is it as Lily says?" 
               Seeing the light through her closed shutters, Burleigh, who slept outside Lily's door, in the garden, scratched upon the panel. She unlocked the door and spoke to him. He sprang upon her with demonstrative tive joy, and the gray dawn lighted up the picturesque scene: the lovely girl, with her flowing curls, standing upon the threshold; the great dog, with his paws embracing her; the pretty chamber as a background, and the garden stretching out from the steps below. 
               "Always watchful, always alert, and loving me as much now as you did before I deserted you for my education," said Lily, playfully, to her pet. "So it is with true affection, Burleigh; absence will not weaken a bond which has a foundation worth having. I would not buy that long-eared Blenheim. You shall have no rival, old fellow. There; down, sir! that's enough now." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               THE Vicomte Marc d'Ambermesnil left cards of adieu upon all his acquaintances, and Charleston was reft of his presence. So true it is that things are never found out unless people tell on themselves-there was not a gossip who knew the reason of this sudden departure. 
               Some inquiring minds, who like to indulge in a liberal and undiscriminating curiosity, asked a few questions and suggested a few hints, but the general idea was that he had been rejected by Miss Clarendon, and had consequently retired in disgust. 
               Now the fact is, on receiving Alicia's note, the vicomte, after sundry invectives on woman's caprice, went to his friend Clarence Tracy, and began, with little prelude, to inquire into the fortune and prospects of la jolie petite Clarendon. 
               Mr. Tracy objected to having the young lady spoken of in that light fashion, and his Southern blood was up at the idea of the vicomte's insinuating that she could be had for his asking. 
               Very soon it appeared, however, that she was not the hritire, but that the simply-dressed girl to whom Mr. Tracy was betrothed was the prize in the matrimonial market. 
               Mr. Clarendon, Clarence reluctantly replied, was a rich man, but could not, of course, divide his property now among his children. The vicomte came to the conclusion that, far from this being a case where he should enter upon lies by wholesale to invent a tangible ble income, and to offer what he considered would be a positive requisition-a clean bill of previous good behavior-he might congratulate himself on having escaped a great imprudence. 
               He was spared the danger of having brought to light sundry ugly card-stories, and he might, with the passport of currency in Charleston drawing-rooms, seek a real heiress elsewhere. 
               He had an interview with Alicia, reproached her with her want of confidence in him, and, with a mutual feeling of relief, they parted. 
               Alicia was heartily ashamed, and very pensive and quiet for a week or so. She had liked Marc more than she at first thought, and was inclined to retract her dismissal, and to put him on trial as to whether his attachment was sincere; but he accepted her first words of doubt, looked melancholy, was shocked at her coldness, and took an eternal farewell with a gloomy bow. 
               She was young enough to believe in this claptrap until Lily had a conversation with Clarence, in which, without betraying Alicia's confidence, the former soon discovered the mistake made by the heiress-hunter, and she managed delicately to convey to the indignant Alicia the reason of M. D'Ambermesnil's hurried retreat before difficulties. 
               "So my taste for splendor deceived him, and he was in love with my diamond cross," said Alicia, with flashing eyes. "What an escape I have made! When I look back, I wonder how I could have gone so far and so foolishly. Depend upon it, Lily, many marriages are made with as little thought, and which turn out as complete mistakes as this would have been. But every one has not a Lily near her, I shall never er marry now. I shall live a spinster, and raise a monument to you, dear: 'Sacred to a living Lily, "who toils not, neither does she spin," and who performs more good deeds in her generation than the ugliest and worthiest of her species.'" 
               Alicia was very good for fully ten days; and then, on the afternoon of the tenth day, she put on her bonnet, took a sentimental stroll with Alfred Greville, and when she came home told Lily he was by no means so stupid, and had very handsome eyes. 
               And all this went on with an unconsciousness on the part of Mrs. Clarendon, which would be incredible had I not seen it enacted a dozen times. 
               The third of April was drawing near. Three huge cases had arrived for "Miss Vere" per New York steamer; the trousseau contained in them, and chosen by Mrs. Langdon, was worthy of the bride, and a certain agreeable bustle pervaded the Clarendon mansion. 
               Since Gustavus's curious "bold stroke for a wife," there had been an increased coolness on the Purvises' side; nevertheless, Sara accepted the invitation to be bridemaid, and Lily secured all her old friends. 
               There were the Jenningses, the Melbournes, Grace Meredith, Nora Tracy, of course, and Alicia. 
               Lily was very busy and very happy. Some people may expect to find her weeping, and be disappointed that I do not describe her in some such maidenly act. 
               But I write the truth. There was not a tear in her heart nor on her cheek. 
               Why should she weep? I distrust weeping brides as much as I do giggling ones. 
               A sweet seriousness, a gentle gravity, thoughtfulness but not sadness, should be the natural expression of a young bride's face. There are cases-when a marriage riage is to be followed by an instant separation from friends and family-where tears are not unsuitable beneath a bridal veil. A woman should love the man she is about to marry, but it is not reasonable to suppose that she loses all other love; it is not desirable that she should seem to do so; but, on the other hand, if her bridal vows do not set her beyond the reach of her girlhood's surroundings-if no recent calamity has made tears familiar to her eyes, I feel them rise to my own when I see the large drops rolling down, or brushed away with passionate energy from a bride's pale cheek. All is not right there. God help that drooping heart-God still that wild and speechless agony-God keep pure that feeble, helpless, suffering creature! 
               Lily was very busy and very happy. Clarence's manner to her was perfect. I believe he loved her at that time more than he had ever done before or ever could again. It almost surprised himself. 
               The moment had come. "She was the type of perfect womanhood." 
               Her consideration for every one, her liberality, her nobleness of mind, the total absence of petty feelings, her large sensibility, her constant thoughtfulness; and, above all, like the white wings of an angel, which appear to brood over and are the motive power of every charm and action, was her love for him. 
               Yet, in the midst of these incessant demands upon her attention, it was Lily who first discovered a change in her guardian. It was her watchful eye which saw that something had gone wrong. He was a little fretful and a little cross, seemed restless and anxious. The wife of his bosom thought he was worried at the confusion in the house, and his children did not notice it. 
                
               His ward waited only for a favorable moment to offer her sympathy in some trouble. 
               "Those settlements are ready for you, dear," said Mr. Clarendon, as they arose from the breakfast-table one morning. 
               She followed him to the library and closed the door. 
               "You must read that paper carefully, Lily; it settles by your wish $5000 annually upon Clarence, independently of you, and to be first paid by the estate before any claim of yours. You can not sign it until you are married on this day week. Your father's will puts you in possession the instant after that ceremony; unless, my dear, you die before then, you make Clarence able to live handsomely apart from you, if he chooses to run away." 
               "I am quite willing, sir." 
               "He had better be very careful of you until this deed is signed. Should you suddenly go off in a fit, or fall out of a balloon before you are Mrs. Tracy, adieu to Clarence's $5000 per annum. Do you know who would have it all, Lily?" 
               "Of course I do, dear uncle; the one who has most right to an estate which he has nursed, and cherished, and improved till he has made me an enormous heiress-yourself." 
               "God bless you, dear child. Long may you have health to enjoy your wealth." 
               "Uncle," said Lily, looking with earnest affection in Mr. Clarendon's eyes, "is there any thing in which I can help you? There is something worrying you-what is it? If it is any thing that I can know, pray tell it to me. I am young, but you have often told me that I have sense for my years. Is it any thing about money? That is the root of all evil-" 
                
               "Nothing is the matter, Lily." 
               "I have watched you for several days-you must forgive it. You used to be very confidential with my dear papa; if he were alive, you would tell him. May I not hear it? It must be some money matter, for," she cried, a sudden light breaking in upon her, "in Angel's last letter to me, she says, 'I presume the Clarendons will scarcely choose, at this time, to make a great wedding parade.' I thought she alluded to-to-something else she might have heard; but Mrs. Langdon knows all about 'failures' and 'tightness in the market,' and all that dreary business; it is something of this sort, uncle, and you must tell me." 
               "I will, Lily, but on one condition: you will let me act as I previously intended; keep this a secret until you hear it from others. It is a very simple story. I have, with blamable folly, endorsed for a man who has left the country heavily involved. The payments must be met at once. I must sell Sunny Hill, or this house. It is a painful alternative. I might struggle on, but I have a horror of borrowing from Peter to pay Paul. I would rather clear myself at once, and be a free man, though a poor one. I have seen too much of this mortgaging, borrowing, shuffling business. Now, not one word, my dear. I see what you are going to say, but it is useless to say it. I hoped to have you in Europe before the affair was blown, for never shall I permit the world to think that Hugh Clarendon took advantage of his ward's generous offers to cover his own culpable act." 
               "But, my dear uncle-" 
               "But, my dear Lily, you should never have known this had it not been for your allusion to Angelica Langdon. I perceive the Purvises have scented the game, and I guessed at once that you would seek and get the information from them. But now I rely on your honor. Had you not been my ward, had your father left his child in other hands, I might more readily have accepted favors from Andrew Vere's daughter; but I would rather die in the poor-house than nurse an estate, and then help myself to it." 
               He got up and strode about the room, as was the good gentleman's wont when excited. 
               "See here, child! much as I love you, and would have gloried in having you Willie's wife, I am glad now that you and Fate decided otherwise. What the devil-No, my dear Lily, you must not press me in this matter." 
               She waited until he talked himself out. 
               "Will you listen to me, sir? What are your liabilities? Fifty thousand?" 
               "No, no," he said, shaking his head, "don't be absurd, Lily." 
               "Forty thousand? thirty? twenty-five? Suppose it twenty-five thousand. You have told me that I have in bank stock and in good bonds nearly seventy thousand dollars of easy-to-be-got-at property. If my father were alive, you would apply to him; if he had left me in other hands, you would probably have applied to me. Here I am, the child of your adoption, the orphan to whom you gave a happy home, the little girl who was placed in your arms on that sad night-I remember it well-the only representative of your nearest friend, and for a mere honorable quibble you refuse to take that assistance which is yours by right. What luxury do I lose by your accepting thirty thousand dollars from me? I shall not buy one gown less, nor eat one poorer dinner for it. Sell this house or sell Sunny Hill, lest the world should say you robbed your ward! Oh, dear uncle, when shall the wisest among us learn that we should only dread the world's reproof when conscience has given the first sting? And, for the matter of that, how do you suppose I can stand the world's saying, 'Miss Vere is too miserly even to aid her guardian. A fig for her gratitude; had she wished it, she could have forced him to accept a few of her loose thousands.'" 
               She paused, smiling, and Mr. Clarendon silently kissed her upturned brow. 
               "My cup of happiness is full," she went on, with that low, enchanting, persuasive voice; "if I needed but one thing more to convince me how wise I am in marrying early, it would be this. According to what you have told me, I might have wished ever so much to make you the handsomest presents, and I could not have done it for three years unless I were married. But it is all right now." 
               "By the way, and Clarence-a wife's duty is to consult her husband-how will he like this?" 
               "He would never be my husband," Lily blushingly answered, "if I supposed that in this case we could differ. I shall bring him to you presently, when he comes, and then you must see about this other deed, uncle. But, apropos, do find out, uncle, if Clarence prefers this regular income to having the Waccamaw place given him instead. Whichever will make him less feel that it comes from me." 
               "But this deed is drawn-" 
               "Draw and pay for six deeds, sir, rather than let my proud Clarence fancy that he is dependent upon me. Thank you for yielding to my wishes; thank you for your acceptance." 
                
               She wound her arms around his neck. 
               "This is like a scene in a play, Lily. I have been routed and defeated (to my own advantage) by a slip of a girl. The Purvises would swear that I had arranged the whole business." 
               "Hush, sir, hush! let us leave them alone. I can not find fault with any one to-day." 
               "Few people part with so much money, and look gay under it. I verily believe, though, that you rejoice in depriving yourself of your possessions. Would not you like to give away Chicora?" 
               "Not Chicora-no; that is my own. I mean to be buried under the royal oak, where I was crowned queen, so that I may always have a portion of that dear place to myself." 
               A bright color glowed on her cheek. 
               "Good-by, sir; I hear Clarence's voice quarreling with Alicia. I must separate the combatants." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               ON the evening of this day, a woman sat in a neatly-furnished room, diligently sewing by the light of a brightly-burning lamp. The street was a quiet and respectable one in a distant quarter of the city; there was no sound to be heard but the quick jerk of her thread, and an occasional sigh, as she looked at the hour marked by a watch which lay on the table before her. Beside the watch a slip of paper was unfolded from its envelope, and the woman's eyes incessantly reverted to these lines: 
               "Expect me, dearest L--, at 9 o'clock. C." 
               She was very handsome-of a passionate, luxurious beauty. There was intellect written on her brow, but it was overpowered by the stronger character of her voluptuous mouth and chin. Her black hair was more abundant than fine; she had a deep shadow beneath her great eyes; and between her thin, nervous nose, and her full, trembling, red upper lip, there was a slight dark penciling, which was more positive than a peach-like down. 
               Her simply-made dress of sombre colors fitted closely to an admirably-built form, elastic and powerful, with slender hands, and of a majestic carriage. 
               She was not a Spaniard, for her hair had a crisp tendency unseen in Andalusian or Catalonian beauty, and her complexion was neither olive nor fair. In a word, those to whom this race is familiar would immediately have detected her African blood, shaded through many generations, and almost now defying conviction. 
                
               The hands of the watch marked half past nine, and a quick step darted up the stairs, and there was a knock upon the door outside. 
               A hasty color mounted to the woman's forehead; a smile of delight parted her lips, disclosing the whitest possible teeth, and, removing some lines of care from her face, showed her age to be not more than twenty. 
               Her arms were folded about the new-comer as the door opened. She murmured in the lowest voice some energetic expressions of joy, and led him to a large chair near the fire, which a chilly spring evening made agreeable. 
               He removed his hat, and she seated herself on a low stool at his feet. 
               It was Clarence Tracy! 
               "You are later than your word," she said, tenderly. 
               "Oh, Lorenza, you may be glad I am not still later. I am harassed to death. Pray smile, child, for I am miserable, and want consolation. No, keep your smiles; you will need them all yourself presently." 
               "What is the matter? Tell me at once. You know I can not stand suspense. I would rather dare the greatest danger than wait patiently for the arrival of a lesser which is to come. Are you ill? Have you lost any friend? My own love, my life, what is it?" 
               "If you speak yourself, how can I? I am in no danger of life or limb, but an event is close at hand which I prefer you should learn from me. I am not rich, Lorenza, and I long for power. What is power? Money. To wait for fat cases, for large fees, is a very slow and uncertain method of getting money. There is but one course open to me. You can guess what that is, dear; can you not, Lorenza mia?" 
               She shook his hand impatiently from her shoulder, and with whitening lips, and a growing fire in her eye, said, 
               "To rob-to steal, I suppose." 
               "No, my pretty one, not that exactly. I wish it were no worse. There is only one safe method of stepping into thousands which are not your own-to marry an heiress." 
               Lorenza sprang from her seat. 
               "I guessed it," she cried, "I guessed it. I feared it long since; not from any diminution in your tenderness, for never have you appeared to love me more than while you were plotting this treachery; but in the house from which I procure work, among the sewing-girls I caught your name mentioned one day as the betrothed lover of one of their customers. I scorn to speak to them, but I asked you that evening if you knew her, and you spoke of her as a child whom you had known from earliest childhood, and whom you looked upon as a sister. Oh base, cruel, deceitful! Was it for this that you brought me back to this hateful city, where at every turn I feel the degradation in which I was born? You found me happy, respectable, and pure in Paris. My mother had repented of her early errors, and had taught me, since we left this place, that I might become an honored woman-that there were no barriers on that continent to a virtuous life for me. She died, but I found a friend. I was on the eve of marriage-that good German, the excellent, the worthy man who was to give me his home, and hand, and protection-I left him desolate for you. You met me in the street. You recognized the little girl whom you used to see years before playing at her mother's door-step in front of your aunt's house. I had forgotten those days; I had forgotten that there was slave blood in my veins; I was free-I was contented. Your vile flatteries, your miserable devotion, awakened a love in my breast which overthrew all the virtuous precepts my mother had learned to practice and had taught to me. I deserted my destined husband-I believed in you. Happy in your smile, in your arms, I consented to return here. I knew you could not marry me-you swore never to abandon me-" 
               "And I will not, Lorenza. I never said that I would abandon you." 
               "Silence!" she cried. "Who asked you to speak? Do you mean to add insult to insult? Would you insinuate that I should remain a pensioner-a-" 
               "Remain as you have been, pretty vixen-my much-loved and beautiful mistress. I shall be absent six months or a year, but I shall not forget you. No, Lorenza; in spite of your temper-of your foolish reproaches now, I have no wish nor intention to desert you. Here is a check for your yearly income. I regret to hear you speak of work that you procure. I had no idea that the roughness I sometimes see on this model of a finger was produced by labor of this sort." 
               She withdrew her hand, and threw back the disheveled dark hair from her fevered cheek. 
               "Touch me not. And for your money, this is the treatment I give it." She tossed the paper upon the coals, where it blackened, and shriveled, and died out. "So ends my love. Ah me!" 
               A shower of tears and deep sobs shook her frame. 
               Clarence watched her with calm eyes. 
               "You will get over this first burst, Lorenza. Every woman in your position must come to this, sooner or later. Many highly-born ladies see their lovers marry, and must swallow their tears. They often see them depart without the excuse of marriage. You are not hardly treated. Dry up those glorious eyes. Have I said that I love you less? You will reconcile yourself to an inevitable step; and believe me when I say that you are as dear to me now as when I first told you that that face and figure were worthy of a better destiny than to serve in a perfumer's shop as dame du comptoir." 
               Lorenza made no reply. 
               Presently, with an impatient gesture, she wiped away her tears, and looked full into her lover's eyes. 
               "Since when did you intend to marry?" 
               "Strictly speaking, child, I was partly engaged before I went to Europe." 
               "And it is to this man, just God! that they will give a young and innocent girl! I almost find it in my heart to pity her. But no; she will believe in him, she will love him, she will be happy, while I-Give me air-give me air-I suffocate-" 
               She tore open her dress from her struggling bosom, and paced the room distractedly. 
               "Lorenza, tu donnes dans le melodrame. Calm yourself. Your father, you have told me, died mad." 
               "Do you reproach me with that?" she exclaimed, fiercely. "Leave me! 'tis you that drive me mad." 
               "I will leave you now. To-morrow, when I return, I trust to find you more reasonable. Why will you, dearest, be so unnecessarily furious? There is nothing changed-there is nothing to change between us. I shall not see you quite so often as I have done, and for the rest of this year I shall be absent. If, in the course of time, you weary of the monotonous existence you lead in these rooms, and if you sigh for Paris and its gardens, I shall never oppose your pleasure. I love you too much to thwart you. To-morrow, ma mie, I shall bring back another check, since you have seen fit to destroy this one." 
               She was quieter now, and, with knitted brow and firmly-set lips, stared at him. 
               "But recollect, Lorenza, that I abominate ill-temper and scolds. You are handsome enough to excuse a great deal, but let this be the first and last storm. It is all over now, is it not?" 
               "It is all over. Farewell." 
               He nodded, and closed the door behind him. 
               "Handsome, but the temper of the devil," he muttered. "Never mind; she loves me too much to break with me, and I have not lost my ground by giving way. She will yield to necessity, as her betters have done before her." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               AMONG the ceremonies of the Episcopal Church, none is more impressive, without a gloomy tendency, than the rite of confirmation. 
               It is beautiful to see that band of thoughtful faces thus dedicating themselves to a virtuous life, fulfilling the vows made for them in baptism, and preparing themselves for a yet holier festival which should follow closely after. I like the white, emblematical veils, the snowy dresses. I like to have the sunshine fall upon the bowed heads. I like to note that the confirmed ones are young, and seem penetrated by this "outward form," which is an entrance to a "spiritual grace," and I always trust and pray that there is more than form in this voluntary acknowledgment that they are God's creatures, and destined for his service. 
               On Wednesday, the 28th of March, Lily was confirmed. 
               The venerable bishop who had baptized her, who had always felt a lively interest in her well-doing, and whose counsels she had recently sought with filial reverence, seemed to linger fondly in his blessing as his withered hands rested upon her brow. 
               She was indeed beautiful with a spiritual beauty as she rose from her knees and returned to her seat. 
               There were many who pretended afterward to have noticed that day an unearthly loveliness in her look and manner; but, on the other hand, many condemned, at the time, the glance with which she sought out Clarence Tracy, and seemed desirous to associate him in her mind with the feelings that imbued her countenance with its holy rapture. 
               He was in the next pew to hers; and during the sermon, she would sometimes turn without affectation, fixing her eyes for a second on his dark face, as if to assure herself that he was listening. 
               On Sunday she communed, and the Tuesday following was her wedding day. 
               Brightly, without an April shower, without a cloud upon its blue surface, shone the sky on Monday morning. 
               There was a busy hum through the house, and every one wore an important look. Mrs. Clarendon's voice sounded from every quarter-the wedding breakfast was upon her mind-and drawing-rooms which were to be inspected by daylight needed extra dusting and cleaning to satisfy her scrupulous demands. 
               Alicia had given up her apartment as a dressing-room for the bride. It was now fairly littered with costly feminine adornments, with bridal gifts, and with the bonnets and shawls of the bridemaids, who had come to "see the things" and to chatter. 
               How they rattled! Grace Meredith was seated on a table, swinging her little feet like pendulums, and talking at the top of her voice. 
               "What a glorious privilege to be an heiress!" she cried. "Oh, Nora, let's see that love of a mantilla! Point d'Alenon, I vow, as I am a Christian! Don't you wish you were an heiress, Sara?" 
               "No; I am quite contented to be as I am." 
               "Listen to her!" ejaculated Grace. "A stranger would suppose that sentiment emanated from a humbly tranquil spirit, but we know that it springs from perfect self-satisfaction. Well spoken, Sara. Now I honestly confess that I should like to change places with Lily." 
               "What a compliment to Mr. Tracy!" sneered Sara. 
               "Oh! I forgot the drawback. Excuse my candor, Leonora the Little; but were I a young lady of independent fortune, I should not be in such haste to divest myself of my libre arbitre. Not even the dignified devotion of a courtly Clarence should induce me to become a worthy wife. Commend me to Queen Elizabeth's policy. Reign like a man, and be singly powerful and powerfully single. How many hundreds of thousands per annum have you, Lily?" and "giddy Grace," as her companions called her, in allusion to her own fancy for alliteration, caught Miss Vere's skirt as she passed, and drew her caressingly toward her own perch. 
               "What a chatter-box!" said Lily; "and is this the way you mean to assist me? Choose me some pairs of dark gloves for country wear from that pile; and recollect that I don't receive those unlimited thousands until I marry." 
               "By the way, I did hear that if you should die before you are twenty-one, or before you marry, Mr. Clarendon is your heir. Is it true?" 
               "It is." 
               "And yet Mr. Clarendon consents to your early espousals. Virtuous, exemplary man!" 
               Lily laughed. 
               "And what is more," she said, "I believe my aunt rejoices in it. When I was quite a little girl, I used every now and then to hear her talk about the terrible responsibility. Do you recollect, Alicia, the summer after I came here-our first summer on Sullivan's Island and-when I was seized one day with a desire to watch the fishermen drawing the seine? In my sun-bonnet I ran down to the beach, and, eager for their success, followed them in their course up the island. They were all very good to me, and let me watch the fish, and pick out a string of them for myself. They were negroes, so I was not afraid, and trudged along, talking to them about sharks, and porpoises, and stingarees. I had two hours of great enjoyment, and was brought home with a huge string of whiting by old Daddy Peter, to whom I had attached myself from the beginning, recognizing him as Maumer's husband. I found the household in great alarm. My uncle alternately kissed and scolded me, and my aunt would not look at the fish I offered her, but repeated very often, 'If Elizabeth had been drowned, people would have said we did it.' I could not understand this, but I never played truant again." 
               "Why, that is quite an adventure," said Grace. 
               "And one that greatly interests that seamstress," whispered Marguerite Melbourne. 
               In the corner of the room, partly concealed by the white drapery of the window, sat a young girl. On a low chair beside her was spread out the wedding dress, which was undergoing some trifling alteration. She had dropped the waist from her hands, and, with suspended thread and attentive attitude, had listened to Lily's little narrative. On perceiving the eyes of the group directed toward her, she resumed her sewing with a deep blush, which burned under her dark cheek. 
               "Who is that girl?" asked Grace, in a low voice. 
               "Betsey Ballou sent her to me this morning. I desired her to dispatch some careful hand from her workroom to rearrange the lace on the corsage of that dress." 
                
               "She is very pretty." 
               "For that color," said Sara, contemptuously. 
               "Hush!" Lily said, gently; "she will hear you." 
               "She is too pretty for a dressmaker," Grace pursued. "Don't let Mr. Tracy see her. He admires Spanish beauty, and she is very Spanish." 
               Sara's lip curled, and Lily said-but, low as her tone was, it reached the girl's ear- 
               "Clarence does not admire low-born beauty. I doubt if I could make him acknowledge that she is good-looking." 
               Then, crossing the room, she spoke kindly to the workwoman, who answered in a husky voice, and without raising her eyes to the fair and gentle being before her. 
               Gradually the young ladies took their leave, with many laughing exhortations to Lily not to be late on the following morning. 
               "And, above all, Lily, don't cry," pleaded Grace, who was the last to depart; "I am so prone to follow bad examples, that if you whimper I shall sob." 
               "I promise," said Lily; and, throwing her arms around Grace's neck, "Dear Grace," she continued, "if ever the time comes when I shall assist at a like ceremony for you, may your light but true heart be able to say with the sincerity that mine does, 'I love, and I honor my love. I am happy." 
               Tears sparkled in Grace's softened eyes. 
               "God bless you, dearest Lily." 
               The bride was left alone except the presence of the sewing-girl, who remained like a statue endowed with certain movements beneath the shadow of the muslin draperies. 
               Lily came and went between the inner and the outer er room. She examined the contents of different drawers, opened an old desk, burned some letters in the empty grate, and remained long in contemplation before a miniature which the workwoman saw was the portrait of Clarence Tracy. 
               A balmy afternoon succeeded the early dinner which best suits our spring and summer weather. 
               I was driving into the city. A note from Lily Vere had brought me to town, to be present at her wedding, for the care of an invalid relative confined me at this time entirely to the country during the winter. With difficulty I procured permission to absent myself for a couple of days, and joyfully I flew to embrace the dear girl, whom I had not seen for more than two years. 
               I was thinking of her, and picturing to myself how she would look on the morrow in that costume which lends beauty often to those who do not own it, and whose graceful appointments are doubly charming when the wearer is young and lovely. 
               I examined the bouquet of orange blossoms which, destined for her, was carefully stored away in a corner of the carriage, and their perfume, aided by the delicious odor of the yellow jessamine which lined the hedges, combined to wrap me in a sort of Mohammedan paradise. 
               The horses jogged along, and I dreamed pleasant day-dreams, when I perceived, on the opposite side of the plank road, two equestrians, a lady and a gentleman. 
               He had just gathered for her, without dismounting, a cluster of jessamine. She placed them in the bosom of her riding-habit. Surely I know those long, abundant, silky, and most beautiful ringlets. A ray of sunlight shot athwart their shining meshes, and kissed the soft, bright cheek about which they played and sparkled. Yes, it was Lily. 
               "Lily!" I cried. 
               In a moment she recognized me. One bound of her horse, and she was at the carriage window. 
               "Dear Molly, is it indeed you? Let me come in." 
               Her companion lifted her from the saddle, and stood holding her reins and his, while she embraced me with fond delight. How warmly I returned her eager welcome! "Lily, pardon me, but you are beautiful." 
               "You are saucy," she said, blushing. "Clarence will not permit such flatteries-will you, Clarence? But you do not know him-how thoughtless of me! Clarence, I present you to my dear old friend, Miss Mary --, whom I take the liberty of calling Molly." 
               I gazed earnestly at the grave, haughty, well-dressed, dark gentleman who was playing groom to my darling, and who bowed to me with perfect grace. He was handsome in a severe style, with dignity enough to fill a throne, and a smile which he could render suave enough to ensnare a heart. I did not like his expression. His eye was not frank, his lips were too thin and too compressed. 
               Lily watched me, and I read in her face a desire to know my opinion. I meant to wait a little before I gave it. 
               "I have braved a good deal of displeasure to come to you, Lily; I am repaid in this welcome. How fortunate that we should meet on the road! for I scarcely hoped to see you except to-morrow. It would have been indiscreet to break in on Mrs. Clarendon this evening." 
               "By no means. Come to-night, Molly, and we shall have a long talk." 
               "Do not hesitate, Miss --," said Mr. Tracy. "I
                   am forbidden the house. It will gratify my philanthropic spirit to know that if an unfortunate man is sent to Coventry, at least so agreeable a person as yourself will profit by my absence." 
               The friendly smile, the genial tone, the kind intention, made me ashamed of my first impression. 
               "Then I must not detain you now. Finish your ride; and after I have washed away the dust of travel, you will see me at Mr. Clarendon's." 
               Clarence Tracy placed her once more in the saddle; she kissed her hand to me with her sweet face turned over her shoulder; he raised his hat with courteous bend, and I watched them far, far in the distance, riding close together, the yellow jessamines showering about them, the oaks casting their lengthening shadows over them, and sunlight and brightness seeming to mark ahead the future pathway of Fortune's favorite children. Alas! 
               Twilight was deepening into night when Lily returned from her ride. 
               Beneath the overhanging balustrade, wreathed with vines, the lovers lingered and said good-by. 
               There was no moon, and Clarence urged that she might give him a farewell kiss. 
               "For shame!" said Lily; "here in the street?" 
               "Then at your own door-your garden door. It will be twelve mortal hours before I see you again. You might at least say good-by." 
               Lily protested, but, still protesting, moved round to the side entrance of the house, where the low flight of steps led to her apartments. 
               A figure, watching from the window, shrank back as the two approached. 
               "Good-night, my beloved." 
                
               "Good-night, my own love." 
               "This is our last parting." 
               "Yes." 
               "Lily, I begin to feel to-night that I have been too fortunate. What has that 'fickle jade' in store for me to counterbalance her gifts?" 
               "'We praise Thee, O God, we acknowledge Thee to be the Lord,'" chanted Lily, in a low, solemn voice. "Look above; carry your gratitude there, dearest." 
               "Petite dvote," said Clarence, affectionately; "you are a saint, and I expect you to convert me." 
               A servant came whistling past, and Lily hastily withdrew her hand from her lover's shoulder. He pressed the little palm to his lips, and with a low-murmured blessing left her. 
               She followed him with her calm, loving gaze till the closing clang of the iron gate, as it swung behind him, and the measured tread of his boot down the street announced his departure. 
               The light of a single candle upon her toilet showed her the sewing-girl seated upon the floor when she passed into her room. 
               The girl's head was buried in her hands. 
               "Are you ill?" asked Lily. 
               She raised her head. 
               "No; I believe I was asleep." 
               Her eyes flickered in the light. 
               "You were waiting to be paid for your work; I am sorry to have kept you so late." 
               "I do not mind it." 
               Lily searched for her purse, thinking, meanwhile, that it was imprudent of her maid to have left this stranger alone with so much of value. 
               The girl walked uneasily from the door to the dressing-table. Her fine, flexible figure and restless movements ments struck Lily's attention. She thought she looked unhappy, and her kind heart was ready with its sympathy. 
               "What is your name?" she inquired. 
               "Lorenza." 
               "Do you live alone?" 
               "Yes." 
               "You have friends?" 
               "I had one. He has left me." 
               "Ah!" said Lily, slightly coloring, and guessing the relationship of that friend, "I am sorry for you; but perhaps it is best in the end that this sorrow should come to you now." 
               Lorenza frowned, and turned aside her face, which worked convulsively. 
               "Will you give me a glass of water from the table yonder?" 
               While the girl went in search of it, Lily added a gold eagle to the sum due for her day's work, and wrapped the whole in a stray envelope. 
               There was a jingle of glasses, as if touched by a trembling hand, and some delay. 
               "Can you not find it?" 
               "Here it is." 
               Lorenza gave the tumbler into Lily's hand. Her dark eyes dilated, and fixed themselves with a strange, wild look upon Miss Vere. Twice she half extended her own hand to take back the fatal glass. 
               "Where is that perfume of almonds?" said Lily, carelessly. "Thank you;" and she drank off the water, for her ride had made her thirsty. 
               A shiver passed over her frame; a wild thought crossed her mind; she grasped vaguely in the air. 
               "Help! Clarence!" and Lily Vere fell dead upon the floor. 
             
             
                
               CONCLUSION. 
               MY pen almost refuses to add one more line to this sad and simple story. How can I describe-why need I describe-the effects of this bitter blow? 
               Can you not see the crazed Lorenza flying from her victim, repenting of her crime, or, reckless and desperate, hurrying to her own death? Escape was easy. She passed through the garden unarrested; the Ashley River ran rippling near; one plunge-and her earthly troubles gave place to God's judgment. 
               We can only conjecture the interview, or believe in the imperfect testimony of Lily's maid, who listened a moment at the door before entering from the corridor. 
               She saw Lorenza dart wildly through the garden, and, shocked and alarmed at her mistress's fall, first sought to raise her, and then cried out for assistance. 
               They believed her in a swoon. Applications were made-remedies used-physicians consulted. Then came the fatal decision, pronounced with scientific certainty, "Poisoned by prussic acid." 
               Great God! the horror of that moment! Never shall my brain cease to picture the blank despair which followed those frightful words. 
               Dead! Lily, who but ten minutes previous stood, full of life and hope, in our midst! 
               A crowd gathered. They could not be kept out. 
               There, in that bridal chamber, with its pretty maidenly decorations, surrounded by all the thousand costly preparations for the approaching ceremony, wandered, wondered, suggested, rough men and careless speakers. 
                
               Glances were cast at Mr. Clarendon-whispers reached his ear. 
               He could not give himself up to his sorrow. "Justice"-"legal examination"-"black business," were murmured around. 
               Faces grew dark, and threats were uttered. 
               Suddenly a voice, loud, deep, dominant, filled the room. 
               "I command that these strangers withdraw," said Clarence Tracy. 
               Way was made for him; voices were hushed; the room was cleared. 
               "Justice shall be done," he continued; "look to me for it." 
               Not till this mob had been dismissed did he approach his bride. Not before them would he show his agony-agony not yet complete. 
               There she lay, white and beautiful, his faded jessamines still perfuming her modest breast, her blue eyes closed, her snowy hands drooping at either side. 
               What a groan escaped him as, on his knees, he took one of those nerveless hands, and pressed it wildly, convulsively to his lips, his heart, his brow! 
               Mr. Clarendon, whose honest face writhed with mental pain, grasped his shoulder kindly. 
               "Unhand me!" cried Clarence, fiercely. "By whom has this foul deed been done?" 
               "Do you suspect me, Tracy?" 
               "What enemy had she-so young, so kind, so true? Who would have injured her but the man who profits by her early death?" 
               William Clarendon seized Clarence. 
               "Were it not for her who lies there in her sweet purity, and whose fond heart beat only for you, I should force your villainous words down your own cowardly throat." 
               "William-my son-respect a sorrow which equals our own. Clarence, I forgive you. I did but wish to show you this paper, to prove to you that her last thoughts were with you. We found this at her feet. Lily-my darling!" 
               Clarence Tracy took the paper; he glanced at it; an unspeakable horror glazed his eyes; he trembled, and clutched my dress as I stood beside him. 
               "Just God!" burst from his parched lips. 
               The paper fluttered and fell. I raised it. 
               "Expect me, dearest L., at nine o'clock. C." 
               He turned and staggered toward the door. 
               This slip of paper gave the clew to the dark history. 
               Let me do justice to a man whose very name I abhor, but whose sins were heavily punished. 
               Clarence Tracy spared no pains to exonerate Mr. Clarendon. That very night, much as the effort must have cost him, he revealed the truth. He did not seek to palliate his own course. He knew he had a partisan in every man who thinks that a mistress is an amiable peccadillo. 
               The body of Lorenza was found and identified. Whether the unhappy creature bought the poison at first for herself, and afterward was tempted to destroy an innocent life whose last act was one of kindness to her, or whether, in proposing to work for Miss Vere, she did but wish to examine at her leisure the beauty of her unconscious rival, who can tell? 
               A heavy gloom overspread the city. The sound of tolling bells, the shocked and grave faces, the universal sadness, seemed to betoken no common calamity. 
                
               A silent and respectful crowd thronged the gate and street of that late joyous house. 
               Many asked permission to look once more at the beautiful girl whose gentle dignity and kind demeanor had made her appearance familiar to half the town. 
               Softly reposing on her last pillow, as if Death had respected such mournful loveliness, she remained beautiful till she was borne to her grave. 
               I can not describe the desolation of her adopted family, nor the overwhelming grief of those gay girls who were to have accompanied her to the altar. 
               Even Sara Purvis, who had not loved her cousin, remained in mute sorrow at Lily's side, the large tears rolling unchecked down her pale cheek, and her frame convulsed with inward emotion. She had always heretofore despised my insignificance; this day she turned to me, and her white lips murmured, 
               "May she pray for us. She was an angel before God took her away." 
               The glorious sunshine streamed down upon the nodding plumes of the hearse, and lit up the silver plate which bore the name and age of Elizabeth Vere. As we passed from her apartment, Clarence Tracy suddenly appeared and placed himself authoritatively at the head of her coffin. 
               The six unmarried men who supported this sad shell made room for him. 
               He was so haggard, so worn, so aged in a single day that no one could refuse him the privilege. 
               We laid her beside her father and mother, and as the clergyman sprinkled the earth upon her coffin, I let drop upon it, bedewed with tears, her bridal bouquet. 
               The gardener had sent it, ignorant of the tragedy, and there, in the midst of its fresh and tender blossoms soms, was the withered bud which, in a moment of playful coquetry, she had desired should form its central ornament. 
               What an emblem of the truth! 
               Mrs. Clarendon had waved it aside with horror, but I preserved it. 
               "She shall have it," I said; "let her every wish be fulfilled." 
               Oh the start, the mighty thrill which shook her bridegroom as these flowers fell upon that resounding coffin! 
               I told you that this was no spirit-stirring tale; you may close the volume and be weary; it is but a monument raised, a pillar dedicated to one who was too perfect for this earth. 
               I do not mourn for her now; I say, in her own words, singularly prophetic, 
               "Better so-better so; better to have died believing him entirely true, leaving with him the sweet recollections of her sorrowful fate, her beauty untouched by care or time, dying through his unconscious means, than live to have him again desert her for the flattering smiles of unworthy women." 
               Clarence Tracy left Charleston. He was restless here, and the world looked coldly on him. I think they would have warmed up had they known that Mr. Clarendon insisted upon his receiving the fortune settled upon him by Lily. He refused it, and went back to Europe a miserable if not a repentant man. 
               Mr. Clarendon wrote kindly to him. "I can not forget," he said to his wife, "that Lily's heart was bound up in him. I dream constantly of her. Her face is reproachful if I seem to blame him. He suffers; we, who are her representatives, must console him for her sake, however much I desire never to be thrown with him again." 
               Will you be surprised to hear that, not long since, the Purvises went to Italy for Sara's health, and that we saw in the papers the marriage at Florence of Henry Clarence Tracy to Sara, second daughter of George Purvis, Esq.? 
               Nothing amazes me nowadays. They have a fine hotel in Paris. Mrs. Tracy has her Opera-box, and Mr. Tracy his horses. Of course, you will understand that Mr. Clarendon had forced him to receive his rightful portion of Andrew Vere's estate. 
               Alicia is not yet married. She is very much courted, and will probably be long in making her choice. William is the husband of Grace Meredith. 
               Mrs. Archibald Langdon is still the proud and extravagant beauty who rules supreme in her own circle. I have heard that her attacks of the heart become more frequent and dangerous, but she disregards them, and dislikes to hear them spoken of. 
               A month ago I assisted at an interesting and most touching ceremony. 
               We were at Chicora Hall. The grass was green and dewy, the flowers grew in such profuse luxuriance that the osier baskets could scarce contain them, the mocking-birds kept up an incessant concert, the old oaks, stately and venerable, stretched out their gray-draped arms, and nothing in nature seemed to say, 
               "Let us be sad." 
               But a mournful procession moved with regular tread from the very door whence issued the May-party, across the lawn to the Royal Oak. 
               The throne was displaced, and a marble statue now occupies the site. 
                
               It is very like. The sculptor has almost satisfied us. She stands with upward gaze, and with her hands folded upon her bosom, the attitude of hope and resignation. The graceful sweep of her robes and the perfect simplicity of the whole render it a master-piece. At her feet lies a broken lily; the stem is firm and the flower unwithered, but a serpent has stricken it down, and now escapes with hissing tongue, crouching near her skirts. 
               On the tablet you read, 
                     LILY, Aged seventeen years, eleven months, and twenty-eight days. Spotless, innocent, and beautiful, she died too soon for those she leaves behind; but in our hearts she lives always.
                  
                
               The rough workmen stood aside to let us draw near. We laid wreaths upon the pedestal, and prayers went up from every sorrowful breast. 
                
               I thank you for your patience, for your sympathy, if you have followed me through these many pages. 
               I lay down my pen, and wish you farewell. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
