
    ----CITATION----
        Argyle, Anna. The General's Daughter .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5591 wright2-0071
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  THE PASS. See page 5.
               
            
         
         
            
               THE GENERAL'S DAUGHTER.
               A Romance of history.
               BEING A SEQUEL TO "THE CECILIAS."
            
            BY ANNA ARGYLE. AUTHOR OF "MONEY AND MARRIAGE," "THE CECILIAS," ETC.
            
               NEW YORK:
               THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY. 
                     119 & 121 NASSAU-STREET.
                  
               
            
            1869.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1869, by BYby ANNA ARGYLE. In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York.
            
         
      
      
         
            The general's daughter
            THE GENERAL'S DAUGHTER.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE TWO TRAVELLERS.
               IT was in the early summer of the year 18—, at the gray dawn of a day of glorious promise, that two travellers slowly wended their way through the deep fastnesses of a precipitous defile on the Italian side of the great Piedmontese Alps.
               Intense gloom and an almost unbroken silence reigned in this isolated spot, shut in by its high walls of eternal granite. The only sounds heard were the wailing of the breeze as it swept through the narrow gorge, seeking an outlet to the fair valleys beyond, and the murmuring of a little streamlet rippling beside the mountain path and lulling to a more profound sense of quiet the silence around. Scarce a span in width, this tiny rivulet bore but slight resemblance at the present moment to the roaring torrent of a few weeks previous, when, fed from the melting snows above, it filled up this entire chasm with surging masses of whitened foam. Now, narrowed to such insignificant dimensions, it glided demurely on with its sweet rippling song, lapping the smooth stones and sprinkling its silvery spray with a becoming diffidence, as if ashamed of the wild revel it had lately held.
               But little vegetation graced this lonely, sunless depth; only the clinging mosses that love these rock-bound heights, or slender, chance-sown plants—unfortunate waifs whose seeds borne on the rude blast had lodged in some cranny or fissure of the rocks—gave sign of vegetation here, and struggled through their cold, ill-nourished life without a beauty or a name.
               Our two pedestrians, however, took little note of this silence and solitude. They were too fully engrossed with their own immediate purposes to pay heed to minor matters; neither were they apparently impressed with the peculiar features of a scene which to some might have been full mystery and grandeur. Both were men of practical stamp. Life to them, as to most of us, was well filled with stern realities, and but little time was left to deal in its more visionary or imaginative aspects.
               The narrow pathway they traversed was barely sufficient to allow them to walk abreast, but this seemingly gave them little inconvenience, as they only paused in the earnestness of their conversation when some jutting irregularity in the mountain wall obliged them to separate and round its point singly.
               There was a wide difference in the ages of these companions. The snow-white hair of the elder, his flowing beard, of that soft and downy texture peculiar to the very aged, gave to his deep-furrowed and swarthy visage a decidedly venerable aspect. Yet withal, in the firm step of the old man, and the upright bearing of his still vigorous frame, there was a certain elasticity that bore little resemblance to the infirmity of extreme old age. It was as if the spirit of the man, warring with all the elements of decay, must assert itself somewhere, and in the quick, firm tread and decided movements still vindicated its living power.
               His companion was young; a clear, fair complexion and a profusion of light, silky hair, added to the youthfulness of his appearance. His figure was elegant and graceful rather than indicative of strength. Tall and slight, its fine proportions suggested capabilities of activity more than of endurance. At present it was evident he was not in perfect health; a deep pallor overspread his handsome face, and he walked with perceptible difficulty, even though aided by a stout stick, upon which he leaned heavily. It was truly touching to see the tenderness with which the old man, so strong and rugged, restrained his impatient steps to suit the slower movements of his comrade, as they pursued the rugged mountain path in earnest conversation.
               Both were attired in full military costume. The dress of the elder, as revealed by the occasional displacement of the short cloak he wore, denoted high rank as an officer, while the various badges displayed upon that of the younger indicated that he too had attained to eminence and honor in his profession. Neither were Italians, though evidently belonging to the Italian army. Nor could they be father and son, such total dissimilarity was there in every thing about them. The one coarse, ill featured, bronzed by nature as well as hardship, spoke and acted with a certain brusqueness of manner which in its quick imperiousness sometimes verged on rudeness. The other was almost perfect in feature, of polished exterior and a suavity of manner that to the casual observer was irresistible. A profounder student of human nature, however, would have found far more to interest and draw forth the sympathies and affections in the aspect of the rough old man than in the attractive countenance of his companion. In the eyes that looked out beneath that overhanging brow there was a wealth of meaning, as if a trusty soul, full of help and strength, kept watch under the shaggy eyebrows. A certain feeling of distrustfulness accompanied a second glance at the face of the younger man; it was as if viewing a splendid picture, rich in coloring, exquisite in design, but where the last touches that should have given depth and completeness to the whole had been forgotten by the artist. There was a want somewhere—but where? The smile was not wanting, nor the bland, insinuating expression, but to the critical observer these were cold and meaningless, as if the springs of sympathy that bring man into fellowship with, man had been checked in their supplies and choked at the fountainhead.
               How varied are the meanings of a smile! Some smile, but the eyes emit no beam—others smile, and the sparkle thrills the beholder with horror. There is the smile of purity and peace—the smile of tenderness and joy—but none of these illuminated the youthful face we are endeavoring to portray; its smile was truly enigmatical: it bore no message from the heart. Yet it had power—it fascinated while it puzzled those who felt its witchery.
               But let us not anticipate the course of our narrative. Why seek to analyze and judge a countenance scarcely developed to its full maturity? We are born with varied but immature peculiarities, and circumstances may vastly modify them. At present the young man had a prominent purpose, he had been pleading hard for it, and now he stood still a moment, raising his voice a little, as he said eagerly,
               "I do think, General, I should have this furlough. My health demands it—it has become a necessity. This sabre cut continues very painful, and the gunshot wound in my leg does not heal—besides the surgeon says I must have rest or the consequences may be serious. Indeed, sir, I wonder that you hesitate." And after a pause he added, "I think, in all justice, I am entitled to this indulgence. I have seen hard service in the last six months—none ever saw me shirk my duty. And in this last skirmish, where I received these ugly wounds, when we surprised the accursed Austrians, and drove them so effectually from their intrenchments, it was my plan, you will acknowledge, and my daring that accomplished it. Therefore I feel more emboldened to claim this privilege as some reward for my services."
               "True—you are right," returned his listener, kindling to a sudden enthusiasm, "But for your bravery we might have been beaten, dispersed, and utterly disgraced. It was, indeed, a grand achievement—I was proud of you, my boy! And when I saw you with your brave fellows descend those fearful, snow-covered steeps, and surprise the enemy so completely, I felt, yes, I felt then that such heroic self-sacrifice should never be forgotten, and might wipe out the darkest sin. I vowed that the past should be forever—"
               "Stop, I pray!" said the young man, impatiently, and frowning darkly as he spoke. "Let me entreat that this be not named again. I understand all you would say—I thought I had already expressed sufficient contrition. And indeed," he added, with a touch of natural feeling, "I do think it is unfair and most unjust to be forever trammelled in this way. Am I never to outlive the effects of a youthful folly? Is it to hang a dead weight about me, blighting my prospects and following me like a warning spectre wherever I go? It is hard—unfair—most cruelly unjust!"
               The old man was amazed at this unexpected outburst, "But you misunderstand me, Pierre," he said, "I was only going to say that this was but an added motive to honor your strength of purpose. I cannot but reverence one whose peculiar brightness obliterates the darkness of the past. But forgive me if, even unintentionally, I have offended. I agree with you—it is unfair and unjust to be forever remembering. And God forbid that I,—I above all others—should dare condemn another."
               There was deep feeling in these few words, they evidently came from the very heart of the speaker, "Yes, Pierre," he added, "none know better than I the fearful retribution that comes to those men who have ever dabbled in sin, and stained their souls with its poisonous delusions. There is no escape—no escape!" He shuddered, "No escape," he repeated, "it takes the joy from every blessing—the life and nourishment from every thing you may afterward attain, till the poor, famished heart craves for that alone which it can never have—peace—peace!" A wail of agony burst from his lips, "Oh my God," he cried, "Thou mayest forgive, but can we ever forget?"
               The old man in his emotion had apparently forgotten the presence of his young companion. That companion watched curiously this unwonted mood of his usually stern and unyielding friend. Whatever might have been his crime he evidently reasoned from a conscience keenly sensitive to wrong. His passionate expressions were a strange study to the one looking on, who could not conceive of success ever being visited with compunction. Here was an honored and prosperous man—for what could he grieve? He looked with interest, wide awake for further revelations, but none came, "Yes," muttered Pierre, "here is something to find out. I always suspected, with, all his high-toned moralizing on justice and right that he was some adventurer in disguise. I will have him yet in my power; this hint is enough. I can work out the secret and then—and then—"
               But before he was through with his speculations his companion had with a powerful effort thrown off the incubus of mental distress, and was himself again. The only change perceptible, perhaps, was a little more softness and gentleness in his voice, as he said, looking at his young friend, "Yes, Pierre, you are right. You do indeed need rest. I had not thought till now that I look steadily at you, that you were so ill. There is but rough nursing here; you need womanly care. God bless them! It is only they can help us in such extremities. My life as well as your own has led too little among them, perhaps, but there is no use in complaining. Still, I have sometimes dreamed that had it been otherwise this fierce nature of mine might have been more kindly moulded. I know my faults; no doubt you have often suffered from them. I will try and make amends by extra indulgence. Now, Pierre, where do you want to go, and how long to stay?"
               "The time I had not thought of," answered Pierre, with a brightening countenance, "but I had been thinking that I would like, just at this season of the year, to visit Switzerland."
               "Right,—that is the place," responded the old General, with his wonted energy. "just the place. It is a happy thought—I have a daughter there—one of the best of the earth. She will take care of you—make a man of you again. This is capital—why did I not think of it before?" And as usual, when any thing had taken shape in his mind it must be acted upon at once, "You must be off immediately," he said; "from this moment you are relieved from duty. A few hours is all you need to make ready. Now set about your preparations, and in the morning meet me here, mounted for the journey. I will be ready with letters and all necessary papers to carry you through."
               The young man left him with a profusion of thanks. He had gained his point; every thing worked as he wished, and in high spirits he returned to his quarters to complete his arrangements.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               A FAREWELL.
               ON the following morning, as appointed, our young friend was on the ground, fully equipped for the journey, attended by his servant. Both master and man were mounted on fine horses, strong and well caparisoned, ready for any service; the servant with saddle bags and various devices for convenience in travelling;—the master firm and erect, without encumbrances, was buttoned up to his chin in his thick military overcoat.
               The morning being raw and chilly, notwithstanding the season, (for the early sun had not yet dispersed the mist in this low valley,) and our hero being somewhat of an invalid was sufficient excuse for this careful wrapping in one whose profession might be supposed to prepare him for hardship and exposures. After a short half-hour of what we must admit was rather impatient waiting on the part of our horsemen—mostly manifested by loud, grumbling exclamations, or angry touches of the whip on the backs and sides of the poor animals, who had but uncertain foothold on this uneven mountain path, the General appeared.
               He walked rather slowly, with his usual decision of expression, and as he came near apologized for his tardiness by saying he had not been well through the night. "But here are your letters, Pierre," handing a package, "they will ensure you a warm welcome from my dear child, of that you may be assured. She does not know of your intended visit, but that is of little consequence; any one who is her old father's friend will find her ever ready to receive a guest." The old man spoke with some agitation. It was but seldom he mentioned his daughter; the name seemed always to call up peculiar emotion.
               "Yes," he added fervently, "she has always been the bright redeeming star of my life, God bless her! I trust yet to spend my last days with her. But I will say no more, it cannot be a subject of much interest to you, and you will judge best when you see her. All I say now is, remain with her as long as is necessary to restore you to perfect health—a month, two months—or even six if need be. To have you well is the great point, and no sacrifice is too great to have it so."
               The young man bowed his acknowledgments, and was warm in his protestations of thanks—that is warm for his unexcitable temperament. He had dismounted, and now turned to mount his horse again, preparatory to leaving, but his old commander still had a few words to say; he laid his hand upon the shoulder of the youth, and spoke with a hesitation not usual to his direct and practical nature; "I should like to say something further to you, Pierre, before you go. It is kindly meant—will you take it in the same spirit?" A change passed over the young man's countenance, as he spoke, and he added, "Perhaps it is as well unsaid—you may misunderstand me. It is only anxiety for your welfare urges me to speak."
               "Oh yes, certainly, speak on, speak on," said the youth, with an air of great impatience; "I shall be much obliged; I ought to be so. If there is any thing I have done sir, or left undone, let me know. I am fully aware of my many obligations to my benefactor," this was said with a slight sneer. "I may not at all times express my feelings so freely as I should, nevertheless the impression is there."
               "Alas, it is as I expected," answered the old man, with a mournful accent, "you completely misunderstand me. You know, Pierre, you must know, how painful to me is any allusion to this subject of obligation, and how little it occupies my thoughts. It is of yourself I would speak. Yes, to warn you of yourself. I sometimes think that if there were teachers—wise, disinterested friends—who would in the spirit of love instruct us as to what we really are ourselves, how we seem to a third party, it might save us from many mistakes. I speak feelingly in this, Pierre. We who are older in experience often notice tendencies in the young which are as yet but slightly developed. Their increase would surely mar the beauty and usefulness of life. It is against these I would fain guard you. My own peace of mind is deeply involved in your welfare. You may not understand this—but before the Infinite Judge above, before society and my own conscience, I hold myself responsible for your acts; if you fall, I must go with you, whatever your disgrace, I must I share it."
               There was a profound pathos in his voice as he said this; but it made no impression on the young man, who continued to strike his heavy spurs with the handle of his whip, till seemingly altogether out of patience, he exclaimed with angry gesture, "What is this, sir? You speak in riddles. I would like to know plainly what it is you fear."
               "My boy, there are many things we feel, that are hard to express; but take an old man's word for it, there are no honors you may attain, or wealth or fame achieve, which will recompense the violence done to right principles. Do not be angry with me, Pierre, you know I wish you well. It may be my over anxiety that fills me with these vague apprehensions."
               Pierre muttered between his teeth something that might signify that he could take care of himself, and that he would rather not be the subject of quite so much solicitude.
               "Well, never mind;" said the other, catching the last words; "I am only sorry I said so much; if I have wounded your feelings, I can only assure you it was not intentional. Let us part good friends," and he held out his hand to say the last goodbye.
               His companion took the proffered hand, but not with the most cordial grace, still he smiled in his usual courteous style as he disclaimed all idea of parting with other than the most profound sense of gratitude and reverence for his best friend and protector. He would certainly cherish all he had said with affectionate regard. And mounting his horse he rode away, followed by his servant, and waving adieu with the utmost nonchalance, as though but going to take a short morning ride, leaving the one who had been so much to him, alone, drearily alone.
               Alone, yes, truly in its fullest sense, alone. Of all those he daily associated with, there, were none in sympathy with him. By age and position placed above and beyond, there was not one he could join in social intercourse, and this young man, in particular, he felt was farther away than all the rest, though owing him more than all the others; perhaps it was this feeling of obligation that made the great gulf between them. A man feels more his manhood when he carves his own way through life. There is a certain self-respect gained that lifts him above the world of petty annoyances, and imaginary slights, at any rate this young man was not improved as we might suppose he would be by the propitious circumstances around him.
               Perhaps his benefactor had not been the right one to guide his peculiar temperament; it might be he was too impetuous, too determined, with this self-poised, deliberate young man; but whatever the cause, there was not, certainly, a pleasant understanding between them, There was a bitterness and sarcasm in the young man's words and actions that at times was very offensive, still there was nothing definite to justify reproof, only the unpleasant feeling left. He carried, too, about him an air of condescension, as if he were rather the one conferring a favor by accepting the kindness bestowed upon him. As a general rule the inward thought betrays itself in the outward bearing, and Pierre was by no means an exception to this rule.
               Indeed he not unfrequently remarked to his intimates, confidentially, "No doubt it gives the old man pleasure, and flatters his vanity, to patronize a fine-looking young fellow, and put him forward as his special protege and adopted son; but it does not so well suit me to be the obsequious dependent. Ah, ha! I shall soon lift myself out of that, and he, foolish old man, shall see, as well as all the world else, that I can snap my fingers at their patronage and authority."
               And he was right; so far as talent and ability were concerned, he could undoubtedly take care of himself. He was cool, perfectly master of all the resources he had, and but little troubled with those sudden impulses and enthusiasms that so often come in the way of the restless young spirit to upset the best laid plans. Calm, equable, far-seeing, gentlemanly in deportment, with most fastidious tastes, he had surely, to all outward seeming, every element to mark his way to prominence and success.
               But we have almost forgotten the old man we left alone at the entrance of that dark ravine, looking with saddened eyes across the sunlit plain, his gaze still following that youthful form so rapidly vanishing, without one backward glance, into the wide world beyond.
               And why so sad? Had he but just come to know the icy coldness of the young heart on which he had lavished so much, or had he become fully aware of his loneliness, and the impassable gulf that lay between himself and the young life he had protected and cherished?
               The workings of the human mind are shrouded in mystery; we seem to live two lives, the interior and the exterior; the latter is sometimes easily read by the observer, but the former is scarcely comprehensible even to ourselves.
               The exterior of this old man's surroundings seemed to leave nothing to desire, but of his interior life we dare not judge. Some powerful feeling still held sway over him, and as he turned and walked slowly away a look of horror succeeded to that of sadness, while the suspended breath and tightly clenched hands indicated that a battle was being fought with some painful memories.
               The memories of truth, justice and goodness, never wring a sigh from the heart; still we cannot always judge from the intensity of individual contrition how great may be the actual sin committed. We are so differently organized; some suffer untold remorse for acts which the more callous may regard as very slight deviations from the path of rectitude. This old man suffered, but whether the offence was equal to the punishment we have no means of judging. He walked along as though in a troubled dream, mounting toward a view which had often held him enchanted, but he did not raise his eyes to scan its beauties now. The rich Piedmontese valley lay smiling beneath, and the distant cities, with their gilded domes and spires bathed in the morning light; for the sun had now burst forth, dispelling the early haze, and a glorious Italian atmosphere softened and beautified all things. But he moved on abstractedly, looking neither to the right nor left. He had now arrived at the level of the mountain, where his quarters were situated. A smooth green surface was before him, yet he stumbled and bent over, as though the path were still rugged and ascending.
               To the sentinel who gave the salute he made no return, though generally punctilious in all matters of military etiquette. Neither did he notice the group of officers who arose from their lounging position as he drew near, but passed mechanically to his tent, and shut himself in.
               Old age is a desolate and dreary thing, even in its best estate. To be shorn of those powers which were once our pride is a hard enough trial to bear, even when we can look back upon a past of comparative usefulness, but when the retrospection is checkered by dark scenes of passion and violence, wrongs done that cannot be remedied, and which to our clearer perception have lost the glamour which youth and pride hung over them, then old age with its many burdens must be indeed hard to bear.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               ITALY—VENICE—THE COUNCIL OF TEN.
               ITALY, at the time of which we write, was not the united, independent Italy of the present day. The growing spirit, however, that ultimately worked its object, was then preparing its future fruit, and the people had in part accomplished that which they had so long ardently desired.
               Prussia, France, Austria, and even Spain had made this beautiful peninsula the scene of sanguinary warfare; dividing supremacy oppressing the people, and rendering it the victim of conflicting individual interests. Battles had been fought, treaties concluded, the country devastated and parcelled out among the minions and favorites of the triumphant party. Thus petty princes had held despotic sway, and the dangerous doctrine of "divine right," taught by the ecclesiastics, held the masses in the bondage of ignorance and superstition.
               But a change had come, as changes surely must come to all the oppressed, although often cruelly and disastrously retarded. These extremes of injustice and oppression, in the great order of progressive events, will most surely some time or other bear their results. And the consequence of too many overt acts of tyranny and extortion among this impulsive, quick and passionate people, was to unite them finally into one common purpose—a determination, at whatever cost, to be rid of their hated oppressors. Of course revolution followed, and a fierce contest raged with all the governments of the states, but the people prevailed. The lovers of liberty from every quarter had flocked to their standard, and helped them to their well-earned victory.
               But they were now in that dangerous transition state which makes it uncertain whether success is a blessing or a curse. War stirs up the worst passions. The sudden elevation of those untrained to use power wisely, and the poverty and devastation that ever follow in its train, make it a trial that demands the noblest self-sacrifice, the most disinterested policy to bring good out of its evil.
               Victor Emanuel was but very recently elected constitutional monarch of this united Italy, on the abdication of his father, the chivalrous but unfortunate Charles Albert, the only one of the Italian sovereigns who had proved faithful to the rights of the people at large.
               They chose the son, having faith in the father, and his own antecedents had been such as to urge them to the choice.
               General Acleigh, the veteran officer to whom our readers have been introduced in the preceding chapters, had been but a short time previous appointed to the command mand of a division of the army. He had been one of Charles Albert's ablest generals, his friend and counsellor in success, and still held to him in the dark hour of reverses and misfortune, being at his side in that last disastrous defeat at Novara, which eventually sealed his fate. The new sovereign continued to honor the friend of his father with special confidence and distinction. The general had brought with him the young man, Pierre St. Olef, as one of his aids. The former at once ingratiated himself in the favor of every member of the corps; his manners, though abrupt, were honest and sincere, and his well-known reputation for bravery and devotion to the national cause had, even before they saw him, commanded their utmost gratitude.
               But Pierre was not liked. There was a haughty superciliousness about him that was ever giving offence, and a want of direct purpose that prevented a full trust in all his movements.
               It had often been a subject of wondering comment among officers and men how this young man had gained so much ascendancy over their keen-sighted general. He was coaxed, and petted, and advanced on every possible occasion. Had he shown great aptitude for his profession, it might have been a reason for this; but this was not the case. He had, to be sure, ability, and sometimes evinced great bravery, but his moods were fitful, and what he undertook, however enthusiastically, seemed but for the moment, to please himself.
               Had he professed any great regard for his benefactor, it might have accounted for the blindness of the latter to the faults of the youth, but his general conduct, as we have shown, exhibited no affection, although he was guarded and punctilious in his manner toward his patron.
               There had been some attempts on the part of idle curiosity to ascertain who the young aid-de-camp really was. Vague rumors had preceded him, and various tales were rife in the camp. But there was a marked reticence on the part of Pierre, in regard to all matters connected with his past career: so much so, that only the grossest impertinence would have attempted to probe the matter farther.
               There was, indeed, a mystery, a profound mystery, somewhere,—and it is doubtful whether even the young man himself could have solved it. He was quite as much surprised as any one at the generous favor of his benefactor, and had been disposed to attribute it to one of those strange freaks of affection that sometimes take possession of strong and self-controlled natures. Yet there was at times on the part of his patron an ill-concealed expression of disapproval and distrust that savored little of love. It seemed as if he cherished the ungrateful recipient of his bounty from a mere sense of duty.
               It was but little over a year since General Acleigh had, in the most singular manner, first met and befriended young Pierre St. Olef. Our readers will pardon us for interrupting the regular course of this narrative in order to give a brief recital of the circumstances which threw together these two natures, so totally dissimilar.
               About a year before the abdication of Charles Albert, then king of Piedmont, after a series of unprecedented successes, which read more like romance than the sober truths of history, the sad and disastrous reverses came; he was driven from every point he had gained, until at last, shut up in Milan, his own capital, more a prisoner than a sovereign, he was obliged to submit to the terms of the Austrian Marshal, Radetsky, and surrender all he had gained.
               But that which gave him most exquisite pain, was that portion of the treaty which obliged him to withdraw his fleet from the Adriatic, whither it had been sent to aid the Venetians in their struggle against the Austrian power.
               A last, and desperate, and most unequal struggle it was. A free republic, it had been overrun by the French, under the first Napoleon; and in the great overturn of the nations following his downfall, it had come into the hands of the Austrians—a change of supremacy, but not an improvement provement. A new tyranny, and a renewed hatred between oppressor and oppressed.
               But the people had again resolved to be free. They had long by concession and entreaties sought for an amelioration of their hardships, but without avail, and now, under the leadership of David Manin, one of the best and most patriotic of men, they had broken out in open revolt against the Austrian authority.
               The king well knew the importance of the fleet to these people, shut up in their besieged, city, and to be obliged to withdraw this support from them was almost maddening. But he was helpless;—the only thing he could do was to let them know, if possible, before the treaty was ratified, of what was about taking place. There was no one to whom he could confide this mission, and who would perform it as well, as General Acleigh. A messenger was therefore dispatched to that officer, requesting his attendance at the palace, before midnight, in full readiness to make a journey.
               Of course he obeyed; through the dark streets of the almost deserted city, he made his way at the appointed hour to the private entrance of the palace. He knew well all its secret passages, having often visited it on happier missions. With a key he opened a small side door, and ascending a spiral staircase winding immediately up from the entrance, found himself in a narrow hall, into which opened the private apartments of the king.
               As he entered, with a low knock, the king arose and came quickly toward him, taking both his hands in his own, and pressing them warmly. There was usually a certain mannerism about this monarch, a want of real, earnest manliness, that had often jarred unpleasantly against the sturdy directness of the rough old veteran's nature. But now he only remembered that one who had always been a true friend to him was in trouble, and setting aside all external formalities, returned the salutation with sincere affection.
               And, in truth, all artificial constraint of etiquette was for the present banished. It was an hour of deep trial, and the king actually shed tears as he narrated all the mortifying circumstances of his position. A prisoner in his own capital, he was bound completely.
               "My promises are set aside. I am disgraced,—outraged! God help me!" he exclaimed. "If cutting off my right hand before I sign this death-warrant to their hopes would help the brave people of Venice, I would gladly do so. But it would not avail; all that I can do is to let them know quickly, before it is officially announced, that the fleet is to be recalled. You will tell them," he continued, with much emotion, "—these noble, liberty-loving Venetians,—tell them how my sympathies are with them—how it grinds me to the earth to withdraw this support from them," and suiting the action to the words, as he spoke he ground his heel into the marble floor, and cursed the fate which held him in, the power of his heartless tyrants.
               Presently he added, with more calmness, "But perhaps I may blame myself for all this. At least, I had better do so than be weakly railing at fate. But, Acleigh, you must hasten away this very hour. You can manage the thing, if any one can. Farewell—God bless you!"
               Another hour, and the General was on his way to that Venice once so exalted, now so oppressed, that uncrowned "Queen of the Adriatic," as she had been lovingly called in her day of glory.
               Venice! What a world of romance and splendor is invoked by the name! What could be said that has not been said of its ancient wealth, its power and splendor—of its regal state, its magnificent palaces, its works of art—its churches, its bridges, its mysterious water-highways—and of the people, their gaiety, courtesy and intelligence? And in the days of which we write, the heroism of this people, their devotion to right, their unhesitating sacrifice of individual to general good, had almost raised them to objects of worship, and all men sympathised with them in the terrible struggle now taking place against such fearful odds.
               An early twilight had succeeded to a warm, close day, when a small craft bearing the king's messenger passed the fleet riding in the blue waters of the Adriatic, and entered the Lagune Bay, approaching as near the city as the channel would admit. A boat was lowered, and a couple of oarsmen, accompanied by the General, entered and bore away toward the city, soon reaching the steps of the famous Rialto.
               Their movements had been watched from the shore,—for at such times every trifle assumes importance—and when the stranger ascended the steps of the bridge, he found quite a number of persons gathered to receive him. He passed on, however, without speaking, merely bowing, although he understood well their eager desire for news. But what could he say? Alas, his heart bled for them. Still they followed as he left the bridge, the crowd increasing as he went along. His uniform was known to them; they knew that he came from their friends; and his commanding appearance led them to surmise that his mission must be one of importance. But he hastened on in moody silence, until he reached the entrance of the Palace of the Foscari.
               The streets were now being lighted, and the narrow thoroughfares were choked by the eager throng; but the once gay smile of the populace had given place to an anxious expression, as though anticipating at any moment some strange calamity. The very atmosphere of the city was tinged with gloom; even the rich front of the ducal palace wore a sinister expression; its life and light were gone. Gone forever the scenes of regal pomp once enacted within its walls, when stately counsellors, surrounded with all the paraphernalia of wealth and power, sat in grave deliberation over affairs of state, when ambassadors from powerful nations humbly asked audience of these representatives of the people, these chiefs and nobles of a rich republic. To-day all this was as if it had never been; a powerful foe menaced them; they were in danger of becoming the victims of sordid ambition, the slaves of a hated enemy.
               David Manin, who by his patriotism, his love of liberty and humanity, his devotion, zeal and self-sacrifice, had won the confidence of the people, was by their unanimous choice elected President of the Venetian Republic.
               For him the stranger inquired of the sentinel stationed at the entrance of the palace. He was at once transferred to an attendant, who, conducting him through a wide hall, lined on either side with soldiery, opened a small door at its extreme end and ushered him without farther ceremony into the presence of the President.
               Around a table in the centre of the apartment was seated a group of plain, strong, earnest looking men. They were ten in number—for the people still clung to their old traditions, and in some degree to their ancient government, and the "Council of Ten," "Il Consiglia du Dieci" from whose stern edicts there was no appeal—representing the idea of power combined with inflexible justice—was still dear to their hearts.
               A little apart from these, and only conspicuous by his noble bearing, sat their chief. The table was strewn with papers and documents, and in the dim light of the dark, wainscotted room, the faces bending over them looked stern and sad.
               David Manin arose at the entrance of the stranger, and fixed his eyes steadfastly upon him. The survey seemed to satisfy him; in times like these men learn to make swift judgments; that one searching look convinced the President that an honest and faithful man stood before him, and with much kindness of manner he bade him be seated.
               The General at once announced his name—a name not unknown to them—and presented his papers. When the President had looked over these he sat for some time silent, while a shade of deep melancholy passed over his fine countenance.
               "I had feared this," he said at last, "this last imprudent move on the part of the king has only brought about the crisis sooner than I expected. One after another of these Italian princes have failed us, but we trusted in Charles Albert. Policy, treachery, we have found in so many, but in his generous impulses we felt secure. But, alas, his rashness has brought us ruin."
               He then turned to his associates and told them the sad news that the Sardinian fleet was to be removed from their waters, and the enemy could now approach from that side without hindrance.
               "You know," he added, "this has been our great protection. What now is to be done? We are left to ourselves—there are none to help us. Shall we give up all as lost? What say you, my friends?"
               "Never, never!" resounded from every mouth. There was no hesitation, while each renewed with stern meaning their solemn vows of fidelity to their beloved cause, the freedom of their own dear republic.
               The President was much overcome.
               "Alone, then, we struggle!" he cried. "Let all these crowned heads forsake us, these royal promises fail, it is for the people we strive, and with them we will stand or fall." Tremendous enthusiasm followed, and warm and friendly greetings were exchanged. Even the stranger was embraced as a brother, and taken to their hearts with confidence and love. Such moments of sacrifice, of high and noble resolve, are the grand epochs of humanity when our better nature asserts itself, and like the gold from the furnace, comes out pure and unalloyed, free from the dross of our narrower and meaner desires.
               In David Manin, their leader, the plain, untitled citizen, they had that type of disinterested and self-sacrificing devotion so rarely met with. We have our Alexanders, Cromwells, Bonapartes—ambitious, self-aggrandizing men—we have them by the score—but we have few Washingtons or Manins, the silent benefactors of the world, who do their work with the one simple purpose of benefiting their race.
               "But," said the clear voice of the President, rising above all. "there is still a question. Have we a right to decide that we will continue this unaided struggle, when so many interests are jeopardized?" This was indeed a question to be gravely discussed. It was resolved that a great gathering of the people should be called. That all the inhabitants of the city, men, women and children, should be requested to meet in the great square of St. Mark on the following morning, to give their voice in regard to some matters of solemn import to the nation.
               When this was decided upon, the Council dispersed, each to make it known, and spread far and wide the call, that all might have an opportunity to judge, and to decide upon the issue.
               The General, weary with his journey, slept until a late hour on this portentous morning. He was aroused by the hum of many voices, and the stir of a mighty multitude. Looking from the high window of his hotel, he beheld a most exciting scene. Streams of people, of all ages and sexes, were crowding over the bridges, and into the narrow thoroughfares, toward the one point, the great square of St. Mark; while far as the eye could reach, On the glittering streams winding like silver threads in and out through the dark, high buildings of this strange city, black gondolas, with here and there a gay streamer or a parti-colored canopy, were shooting swiftly toward the same great centre of interest. He hastened to dress and taking some slight refreshment, joined the throng outside.
               The morning sun shone high in the heavens, gilding dome and spire of the ancient cathedral of St. Mark. The immense square, paved with its blocks of grey and white marble, was now filling fast with a vast concourse. Their countenances wore the same anxious expression which the General had noticed before.
               Mechanics, merchants, tradesmen and scholars, alike bore the same marked sadness on their faces. Even the youths and maidens, and little children whose tender years seemed more befitting joyous pastime, had learned in these long, weary months of privation to feel with their elders, to dread the dark future, to listen with tears to the every-day story of suffering in the beleaguered city. And ladies too were there,—women of rank and distinction, to whom the breath of honor and liberty was dearer than high-sounding titles and rich estates. Forgetting all distinctions, and the trifling etiquettes of life in the absorbing interest of a common cause, they clustered in thoughtful groups, anxious to learn the fate of their beautiful city.
               A platform had been raised in the centre of the square. As yet it was unoccupied, and the multitude, now densely packed together, waited in silent expectation. They had not long to wait, however, for the Council of Ten presently descended the steps of the palace in sight, and made their way through the crowd to the slight elevation. There were no men-at-arms, or heralds of state, to announce their, approach; they simply came as they would among kinsmen and friends, to meet them on equal terms.
               The President now, in a clear, loud voice, whose tones, in the soft summer air, reached to the utmost bounds of the vast assemblage, detailed the disastrous news that had so lately reached them.
               "That noble fleet," said he, "which has so cheered our sight, as we looked out on the bright waters of our gulf, those ships that have been to us a wall of strength, guarding our coast from outside foes, shall gladden our eyes no more." He then explained the situation fully to the people, stating that with the departure of the fleet departed also their last hope of foreign aid.
               "We are thus left exposed to the enemy's approach. It is a desperate cause," he said with a sigh, and the struggle narrows, my friends, centering in ourselves alone. What then shall we decide? Shall we persevere to the end, and accept our fate, whatever it may be? or shall we submit before all is gone?"
               A deep groan of despair followed these words. "Or shall we," he continued, more hopefully, while his voice rang out like the clear blast of a trumpet, "Or shall we resist to the death, rather than be the slaves of a tyrant?"
               For an instant profound silence reigned, as though every atom of sound were absorbed in the deep breathing of the multitude—and then there went forth a cry, so loud, so persistent, it seemed as if the very heavens must hear, as every voice in that vast throng uniting in one, shouted "We will! we will!"
               The tumult of a wild burst of feeling followed. Men fervently embraced each other, women of exalted rank threw their arms around the necks of their more humble sisters, and wept out of the fullness of their hearts, All distinctions were forgotten, as one family, as brothers and sisters, they were united in this common cause.
               There are moments, when all that is holy within us asserts itself; when passion is hushed and pride leveled—the bad forget their wickedness—the good that they are better, and the broad sympathetic spirit of a godlike love reigns universal and supreme.
               Many tears were shed, and many hopes and aspirations rose high, as a chastened quiet stole over these agitated hearts.
               The voice of one whose words had always a most powerful influence, was again heard. This man of strong impulses, of quick decision, yet withal with the temperate zeal and deep insight of a sound common sense, saw that no moral attitude, however lofty of purpose, could bear up against the mere bone and muscle of mighty physical force. He felt the full value of united determination as a most powerful auxiliary, but it would not do alone. He was conscious that their internal resources were fast failing, that their many privations and hardships were telling on them fearfully, that this last calamity, the withdrawal of the protecting fleet from their shores, had left the enemy at liberty to come forward and shell and destroy their beautiful city. All this and much more, came before him with a painfully vivid distinctness, and his own better judgment would have bade him surrender, while there was a chance by voluntary capitulation to make better terms. But that indomitable spirit of desperate resistance to a galling oppression, impelled him as the rest; he could not resist it, even though destruction and death were the certain result.
               "Yes, my friends," he exclaimed, "our nature turns with utter revolt against this principle of forced submission; we cannot exist as a conquered nation—we will die rather. This yearning for liberty, this love of freedom, is our birthright, it has pulsated in the veins of our ancestors, and been transmitted to us as a sacred heritage.
               "Fourteen hundred years ago, as tradition tells us, they proclaimed their independence. In this their little island city they founded a republic, and laid down the principles of self-government. Could we be else than a liberty-loving people? Surely not! Perhaps these elements of nature which surrounded them—the broad expanse before them, with the bright waters of our sea ever rolling free and unshackled—inspired a horror of confinement, but whatever the cause, we have always been a liberty-loving race, and we must still hold fast this sacred birthright; and may the God of justice be with us!"
               "Amen!" was responded by the deep voice of the multitude.
               "But," he continued, with a sad, prophetic sigh—oh, how his heart yearned toward them in pity!—"we must not be over sanguine. We will do all that we can, and be faithful to each other,—should we fail we will still be heroic, and bear our misfortunes like men and women; we may be subdued, but no power on earth shall crush us."
               Loud, enthusiastic cheering followed, and the dense crowd dispersed, slowly and in order.
               There was hope on every countenance, but it was a hope tempered with sadness. They all knew, from the youngest to the oldest, the desperateness of the game they were playing; their all was staked in it, but they were resolved rather to die than live the life of slavery and humiliation of the last quarter of a century.
               From this time till near the sad and disastrous close of the struggle, when he was called away by the new King of Italy, to take the position he held at the commencement of this story, General Acleigh had identified himself with the interests of the people—shared their terrible privations, and aided them by his skill in all their efforts of resistance, and had thus gained their eternal gratitude.
               It was here that he met with Pierre St. Olef.
               The evening before the General was to leave Venice, a trial had been concluded by which three young men were condemned to be shot. This sentence was to be executed on the following morning.
               They had been found in communication with the enemy—purposing to betray the city into their hands. There was but one voice in their condemnation; all felt it to be just. Still General Acleigh had manifested an unusual interest in one of the young men; he was the youngest, and of a superior appearance to his associates in crime. The General, for some reason, resolved to visit him, and on the evening following his sentence, entered the cell of the condemned. They were some hours together, but what transpired none could tell; the result was that General Acleigh spent most of the night in going from one official in power to another, till by supplication and entreaty he had obtained the young man's release.
               The Council granted this favor as an acknowledgment to General Acleigh of the high esteem in which they held him, and their gratitude to him personally.
               He had pledged himself for the future good conduct of the youth, and assured them that he would carefully watch over him, that his future might in some degree redeem his past.
               The two, the lately condemned and his preserver, left the city together before the sun had gilded the eastern horizon. Thus rescued from the very jaws of death, for a time Pierre St. Olef was deeply impressed ed with his narrow escape and the great leniency that had been displayed toward him, but whether that impression was lasting or not, must remain for the reader to judge.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               ST. OLEF.
               LET us resume the thread of our narrative. We left our young traveller, St. Olef, just setting forth in the hazy mist of the early morning. He rode away in high spirits, excited by the pleasant prospect of a journey and the thought of getting beyond the reach of his benefactor's surveillance. At first, the recollection of the last interview between them had irritated him a little, but on further reflection it appeared quite as well that their parting should have been a somewhat stormy one—it prevented some questions that might have been unpleasant to answer—and now he spurred his horse more rapidly on. Away, over the broad plains glowing in their early summer bloom—under the rich umbrageous trees—past cottage and orchard and garden. Many groups of peasants were going cheerily to their labors. They greeted the traveller with a smiling "Good morning, Seignior!"
               Late in the afternoon their route became more difficult. The wide, level road narrowed to an insignificant path, but as they kept ascending, and still ascending, their spirits rose under the exhilarating influence of the electric atmosphere in these high mountain regions, and although fatigued they enjoyed it much.
               They had rested a short time during the heat of the day, and partook of a light lunch from their wallets, their intention being to keep in the saddle as long as they could—the best part of the night if possible. The moon was at its full, the night clear; they could safely press forward, avoiding the dangerous declivities and the steep precipices that lay in their way.
               Thus, fearless of danger, they hastened on while daylight lasted, beguiling the lonely way with merry song and jest, till their mirth became much more noisy than refined. St. Olef was one of those capricious young persons (not always confined to the young either) who when the mood is on them will level all distinctions, and be "hail-fellow-well-met" with all; but if not in that enviable mood, they are as whimsically exacting, requiring the utmost deference of word and manner, and holding their inferiors at a chilling distance. He was by no means inclined at all times to encourage familiarity in a dependent, but it pleased him now to have it so, and he jested and laughed, and vied with his companion in song and story, until the mountains echoed the sound.
               As the sun descended behind the distant mountain range, they had gained the first eminence on the ascending slope, and now a magnificent scene rewarded their efforts. The declining sun—the rising moon—the wide expanse—and that eternal silence reigning over this scene of ravishing beauty, were well calculated to inspire and touch the heart. Even the impatient St. Olef delayed an instant to gaze upon that beautiful Italy he was leaving behind him. It was a sight the fancy might love to linger over, filling itself with glorious day-dreams.
               But our young men were not of the dreamy sort. This was to them a splendid view, and no more. When the first surprise of its beauty was over, then all belonging to it would be forgotten. Its grandeur and immensity awoke no corresponding elevation of soul, no profound feeling of awe, no subduing sense of reverence.
               Wondering only that they had lingered so long, and lost so much time, they put spurs to their steeds and galloped on with redoubled speed.
               St. Olef, now that they were fairly on their way, grew exceedingly anxious to reach his destination. He would admit of no delay—scarcely taking time for common rest or sleep. When occasionally they did halt for the night at some wayside inn, the most peremptory orders were given to have their horses ready and rouse them at early dawn, when they again set forth on their journey.
               After long, fatiguing travel, varied by occasional peril, rocky ascent or deep ravine, they reached the crest of the Jura, on whose slope, extending out to the Lake of Neuchatel, was situated the quiet, unpretending town of the same name, at the very entrance of Switzerland.
               This town was their destination. Yet though it was late in the afternoon when they reached this point, St. Olef seemed in no haste to enter the town at present. Intimating to his servant that pressing business called him elsewhere, he bade the man await him at a certain inn which he pointed out, upon the outskirts of the town.
               He was very exact in his directions.
               "Take your horse and luggage with you, Jacques," he said, "take good care of them, and keep yourself quiet, old fellow, till you see me again. Don't talk too much—or answer impertinent questions as to who you are, and who your master is. I will attend to all that."
               The servant proceeded as directed, and the master turned to pursue his way. He rode back a short distance up the gently sloping road, and entered a belt of wood skirting the mountain. A narrow path, widening as it advanced, led through this wood, the opening to which was almost concealed by a mass of tangled vines and underbrush. Quickly overleaping these obstacles, St. Olef entered the solitary and deserted road, overgrown with weeds and grass from little use.
               The sun was low, and in the deep shade of the forest trees it seemed almost night. Even the little birds were deceived. In the quiet seclusion of their long accustomed possession, they had forgotten, almost, the fear of intrusion. Not understanding the meaning of this unexpected invasion, they roused up twittering from their dreams, and relieved the silent monotony of the lonely ride by an anxious chorus now and then, and a busy fluttering from bough to bough.
               It was, unquestionably, a lonely and tedious ride, even St. Olef's good steed grew dispirited, the road was so rough and unequal. He had borne his rider gallantly until this time, but now he was galled and fretted, and seemed disposed to give up entirely.
               Seeing this, St. Olef dismounted and led the tired animal by the bridle, till they emerged from the wood upon a grassy slope, whose gentle declivity led down to a clear little stream. Here, relieved of the bit, the horse drank freely, and was quite refreshed. They crossed the bed of the stream, and ascended the opposite bank, where the traveller found himself upon the borders of a broad level of land apparently once under cultivation, though now totally wild, and covered with a rank growth of grass and weeds. It appeared to have been at one time the spacious park belonging to a noble residence. Here and there clumps of trees were gathered together in a manner that betrayed the hand of art, and the remains of vines and arbors were still visible. There was an air of decayed grandeur about the place—a desolate reminiscence of better days.
               Coming from the sombre darkness of the wood, the fading light in this open space was comparatively bright, and the gilded tops of the trees which bounded this weird spot, showed that the sun had not yet altogether disappeared. Anxious to reach shelter before night set in, St. Olef hastened on, weary, yet feeling sure by the indications, that he was approaching his destination, and the end of a tiresome journey.
               Before the dusky grey of twilight was yet merged in darkness, he had reached the high wall surrounding what appeared an antiquated building of vast proportions. He rode along a short distance until presently he came upon the large gate of entrance to the grounds of the castle, but it was closed and tightly fastened: he could not make the 
                     slighest
                     slightest
                   impression upon it with all the force he exerted. Here was an agreeable situation. Looking through the bars he saw extensive grounds, but not a living thing moving about them. In vain he called, and struck on the gate, no answer came; he was truly angry, and kept muttering to himself with impatient gestures, "They knew I was coming, at least I informed them of it. How stupid they must be!" But he was not one to give up anything that he had undertaken; he could not stay in that hobgoblin wilderness, neither could he return by that dreary, wretched road; so fastening his jaded Rosinante to a stray bush, he started on foot for a regular exploration of the entire place.
               The wall had evidently been built for defensive purposes, so inaccessible it seemed. At last his persistency was rewarded; an opening was found where the crumbling of decay had caused the mortar to fall away, and it seemed possible to effect an entrance. The crevice or opening was filled with thorny bushes, but he pulled them aside, and managed to push himself through at only the cost of a few slight scratches.
               Still he seemed little better off when he was in, for there was the same silence, and apparent desertion. The castle front presented but a blank, unfriendly aspect, with little port-hole windows high above reach, and massive doors on which he could make no impression. The main building, on whose front were sculptured many quaint devices, and strange hieroglyphics, was flanked by strong, battlemented towers, of heavy rough stone; they seemed almost impregnable, but on closer inspection he discovered a door in one of these towers, a slit-like aperture in its octagonal side. It was closed without fastening, and with a little exertion he pushed it back; creaking on its hinges, it opened upon a stone passage way equally narrow, which he passed through and found himself in a square or court-yard in front of another large building equally dark and antiquated.
               He looked around, still no signs of anything living. On one side of this courtyard rose a most venerable chapel, surmounted by a cross whose moss covered eaves reached nearly to the ground; an immense window of stained glass, with two very small doors filled up the entire front. Opposite this unique place of worship rose the watch-towers and parapets of old feudal times, This had evidently once been a powerful stronghold. Spiral steps led up to the main building; our hero ascended, and raising a huge lion-headed knocker on the heavy door, sent forth such a peal that even the ghosts of those old warriors that hurled down their vengeance on advancing foes, might have been roused from their sleep of centuries.
               A prompt answer came now; a servant threw back the massive door, and a young man stepped quickly through the hall and warmly welcomed the traveller as an expected guest.
               This was Count Gruyere, the master of this extensive but rather dilapidated castle or chateau.
               There were many profuse apologies made when St. Olef related the difficulty he had had in gaining an entrance. He had been expected during the morning, and not arriving at that time, it was supposed he would be delayed until the following day. "But those stupid fellows!" said the Count, "I have often forbidden their closing the gates before nightfall, but I am entirely at their mercy," he added, with an impatient shrug of the shoulders. "They find me occupied with my books and indoor matters, and so they do just as they please."
               St. Olef was led by his host through the high arched hall, up the grand stairway and along a wide corridor to a little dressing room, containing every convenience. Then, ordering lights and plenty of water, the Count left him to refresh himself after his journey, saying that the dinner bell would sound in about half an hour.
               When the bell did sound, the guest had some difficulty in finding his way down through the winding passages, which were all very dark. The dining hall, however. when he reached it, was well lighted, considering its great size, and a cheerful wood fire blazed at one end, which was very grateful in this high, chilly mountain air, even though it was early summer.
               As he entered the hall, he found another visiter with the Count; who was introduced to him as the Abbe Vinett, the Count's particular friend and preceptor. All three sat down to dinner. This meal was served with considerable state. To be sure the livery of the many servitors was in rather a seedy state, and their awkwardness proved them to be no adepts at their business, yet a certain stately etiquette was observed. The old butler, ancient and respectable, standing erect beside the great sideboard, lighted by its massive silver candelabras blazing with their high wax tapers, dispensed with proper dignity the glittering plate and glass. The master of the mansion evidently wished to impress his guest with an idea of his resources and vast importance.
               In order that the reader may understand the Count's real position, it may be well to give a brief account of the views and pretensions of this young noble, that is as far as they were known. His present visitor had not been invited to the castle without a purpose. The young men had never met before, but St. Olef was well known to the Count through other parties, and they had frequently corresponded together.
               Count Gruyere was the sole descendant of a once rich and noble family, who claimed their high lineage from the sovereign rulers of the soil, but were now reduced almost to poverty. They still retained the old castle and the barren grounds surrounding it, and kept up something of the show of former distinction, but for the last half century it had been a struggle. The present proprietor, who had been mostly educated from home, under the charge of Abbe Vinett, was a young man of limited capacity. Indeed, had he not been the object of constant attention from a person of the Abbe's enlarged views, he would have been deemed, perhaps, intellectually deficient; but guarded and cared for as he had been, he did credit to the care bestowed upon him. Morally he was rather above the standard of young men of his age; generous, refined in taste, with gentlemanly instincts; had he been born in the prosperous days of his ancient house, he would no doubt have been one of its best ornaments; but misfortune, the constant necessity of restraint in his every desire, and the impossibility, from his poverty, of mixing with young people in his own position, made him exclusive, and developed and concentrated the worst features of his character,—ambition—inordinate family pride—an assumption that the world owed him certain honors and distinctions by his right of birth, and he was deeply injured in their being withheld. He had brooded silently over these ideas until they had worked a great injury to his weak mind. He had withdrawn himself almost altogether from the society of his best friend, the Abbe, and lived deep in the study of the old documents found in the family archives, until he became almost 
                     monomoniac
                     monomaniac
                   on this subject.
               His personal appearance, also, was against his social popularity; there was a total absence of dash, and that pleasant, undoubting assurance that takes its own place without fear or shrinking. He was plain, quite plain, with a proud reserve that kept all aloof; yet those that really took the trouble to know him, found many endearing qualities to make them lenient to his faults; his pride arose more from a morbid sensitiveness, or distrust of himself, than a feeling of superiority to others, while it was certain, that although he might be erratic, yet he was earnest and sincere in his convictions, and in all that he did.
               There had existed for many years some claims of the state against the little property left of the once vast possessions of the Count's family. Of late these claims had been pressed somewhat. This irritated the young man; he regarded it as an act of injustice to be resented and resisted with a proper spirit. He left home and travelled entirely alone—his whereabouts unknown even to the Abbe. When he returned an entire change had taken place in his bearing; no longer moody and dispirited, he appeared to be full of activity and was in constant communication with outside parties, among whom was St. Olef.
               The dinner was prolonged until a late hour. While the Abbe remained, conversation was confined to general topics, but after his departure the real business for which the two young men had met was introduced. The servants were all dismissed, and told that they might retire for the night whenever they chose; a small table with lights was then drawn close to the blazing fire, when the host and his guest entered into earnest conversation.
               The Count was the chief talker; it was St. Olef's policy now to listen, and it soon became evident that, although he preserved a marked and deferential attention, he was not a pleased listener. The young Count, little used to companionship, save that of inferiors and dependents, assumed unconsciously a dictatorial tone, a gracious and patronizing manner, which did not at all suit our hero, who felt himself to be of quite as much importance as his entertainer. Especially as his keen insight had discerned the weak points of his companion, the feebleness of his judgment, the falseness of his reasoning, and his childish faith in others. Still, like a wily diplomatist, St. Olef listened, taking in all points that would tell, and by an occasional appreciative remark encouraging his host to open all the stores of his unsuspicious nature.
               The count was very much taken with St. Olef. He recognized his talents, but had not sufficient penetration to read his character. In his elation and pleasure at having found so able a coadjutor, he had laid bare every secret of his soul during that long evening, but he failed to perceive that his companion made no similar revelations, and remained yet a sealed mystery to him.
               St. Olef committed himself neither by word nor action; with his usual calm, wary, but expressive silence, he had received all—was full to overflowing. Only an occasional subtle smile would have revealed to a keen observer how thoroughly he understood the Count and his purposes, and was laying that knowledge away for future use.
               "See," said the enthusiastic young noble, leading his companion to the embrasure of a great window, through which could be seen in the clear moonlight, a distant village among the hills, and the intervening waste of valley and plain; "See, my friend," all this, and much more than the eye can reach, was once the fair heritage of my forefathers! Then peace and prosperity reigned here—the plains were full of cattle—the harvests were abundant. With the people there no dissatisfaction, no restless aiming at what they could not hope to attain. They rested securely. under the fatherly care of the lord of the domain, who was by divine right their patriarchal head and protector. Thus the weak were guarded, the strong restrained, There was no need to be anxious for the future while one was ever ready with the strong arm of power to guard their interests. Those were far happier days than these, both for the humble and the exalted—happier days!"
               His eye dilated and sparkled with the intensity of his emotion, as he added, waving his hand,
               "Now, look at the desolation! The land is impoverished—the people are starving. Can you question my duty? I, born inheritor of all this wealth? Is there a choice left me? Must titles earned by fraud and perpetuated by rapacity, stand in the way of this higher right to restore the prosperity of the land and people?"
               St. Olef smiled again that same peculiar smile as they returned to their seats, but he took an opportunity to look more scrutinizingly at his companion, as the latter, apparently exhausted, threw himself into a chair, and sat for some moments silent and absorbed.
               Yes, St. Olef looked at him, and as he looked measured the young man's probable adaptability to his purposes, and his capabilities as a useful instrument. He saw that the Count was madly infatuated with this one idea.
               "But I can use him," whispered he to himself, "I can use him—we shall see who is master before long!"
               The old clock in the hall now struck the midnight hour, which startled the Count from his reverie.
               He apologized for his absence of mind in keeping his guest up so late, especially after so long and fatiguing a journey.
               "I am subject to these fits of abstraction," said he, rising and lighting a taper, "and of late I really think they are growing upon me!"
               So thought St. Olef.
               Light in hand, the host without farther ceremony led the way to the chamber prepared for his visiter.
               They ascended again the broad stairway, and passed round the corridor from which diverged the numerous suites of apartments. St. Olef could see with a glance, as they passed, that many of these were in a state of utter dilapidation. On some of the doorways still hung the tapestries of former centuries, for it had been the pride of this family to preserve all the vestiges of former magnificence, rude and barbarous though it might have been. These tapestries, whatever their ancient brilliancy, were now mouldering and faded, the receptacles of moth and dust. A ghostly wind fluttered their tattered folds, and fantastic shadows played over the grotesque embroideries as the flickering light of the taper fell upon them.
               "An owlish place," thought St. Olef, as he followed his host in silence, "but capable—with a little common-sense and daylight—of being made something of. How soon, if it were mine I would burn up all this antiquated rubbish!
               The Count, unconscious of these irreverent comments, still led the way, and at last ushered St. Olef into an apartment somewhat more modern, or at least in-better repair than the rest. It might once have been the chamber of state of the castle, judging from its size and the richness of its furniture. An immense bedstead, gilded and carved, occupied one entire end of the room. It rose like some gigantic throne, canopied with golden damask, somewhat faded, but still retaining much of its gorgeous beauty. On either side of this stately couch were richly carpeted steps, ascending to the downy heaps above, over which were also spread a heavily fringed coverlet of the same material. A glowing and radiant spot it made, even now, in this cell-like room whose high and narrow windows admitted in the brightest days but little light or air.
               The floor was still highly polished, and in its centre lay a large square of rich Turkey carpet. Around the walls were ranged antique chairs of ponderous size, covered with embroidery. Some square chests of dark wood, elaborately carved, and braced with heavy brass bands, also graced the apartment, while against the blank walls, with their quaint old mountings and gilt sconces, hung large mirrors reflecting the silent figures of the two as they glided with their slender taper about the ghostly apartment. An inner room, with some pictures about it, and other little matters of taste, appeared more cosy and home like. The Count, lighting the branches of the dressing-glass, here left his guest with a pleasant good night.
               The young men met on the following morning at a late breakfast. The Abbe was present, and as before, only the ordinary topics were ventured on. This gentleman had travelled considerably, and being a person of more than ordinary intelligence, his conversation was particularly pleasing; even St. Olef enjoyed it, and that was saying a great deal, for usually he was altogether indifferent to those general interests which occupy most people.
               After this meal, St. Olef was anxious to take his departure, and his host would not detain him, but offered to accompany him part of the way, as he could, at a certain point, show him a direct route down the mountain that would materially shorten the ride to Neuchatel. The Count seemed to be loath to part with his fascinating visiter sooner than necessary. The two rode gaily away from the old castle gates, on their prancing horses.
               The morning air was bracing and a pleasanter view was revealed to St. Olef in his departure from this ancient castle than in his approach to it. There was a fine avenue leading from its front, lined on either side with splendid old trees, and passing through a tolerably well cared for park or extensive lawn. St. Olef expressed himself well pleased with all he saw; he had many questions to ask about the place, and was astonished to hear of its great antiquity, the period of its founding dating back many centuries.
               This was a theme that delighted his companion; St. Olef knew it, and spared no efforts in his peculiarly pleasing way, to draw him out. The Count was all graciousness; he became more than communicative, and in his open-hearted honesty was led to reveal that most interesting of all incidents,—he was in love—madly in love, desperately in love.
               St. Olef inferred from all he heard, although it was not directly said, that the young lady, possessed immense wealth, (which certainly was much needed to replenish the empty coffers of her lover) that in birth she was perhaps inferior, but that there was enough of the pure ancient lineage on his side to make up for the damaging consequences of any mere misalliance, and then she was so beautiful, so transcendently lovely, the lover could hardly find words to express his rapture, but St. Olef must see her and judge for himself. "And you know," added the Count at parting, "we are to meet soon again to arrange some other important matters—then we can make any further appointment, But you must see her."
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               OUR LADY ORILIA.
               AFTER a short ride, St. Olef arrived at the point designated by the count and descended in a zig-zag circuit the mountain slope on which lay the pretty town of Neuchatel.
               The residence of Miss Acleigh, the lady to whom he was now rather anxious to pay his respects, was situated on the borders of the Lake, near the old town. On his way thither he stopped at the little inn where he had ordered his servant to wait for him. Here he left his horse, and then proceeded on foot to seek the lady's house.
               It was known in the neighborhood as "Le Petit Chateau," and after a few inquiries he found himself at the place.
               The building was a low structure, occupying considerable ground, and presenting a quaint but exceedingly comfortable aspect. It had, apparently, at one time consisted of a number of small, separate buildings, which had subsequently been grouped together. At least this was the inference naturally suggested by its oddly arranged and irregular appearance, with its numberless doors opening on every side, its windows of varied size and shape, and its projecting gables. Without architectural symmetry, the house nevertheless was picturesque and attractive. It stood in the centre of a pretty lawn, with broad paths leading down to the lake. Many old trees waved their branches above its overhanging roof, and vines venerable with age covered its low walls. In the rear was a garden, terraced up the hill, a mass of early bloom.
               St. Olef opened the gate leading from the road, and passed up a wide gravelled path to the front entrance. Stepping on the low, covered porch, he knocked at the door. No answer. He waited some time, making internal comment not very flattering in regard to the tardiness of Swiss attendants. He knocked again; but there was no response. Remembering his experience of the former day, he grew very impatient, and voted the people of this part of the world the dullest and stupidest in it.
               "Probably these folk too have shut themselves away in some inner castle, to dream over their superiority to the rest of mankind!" he exclaimed angrily, quite baffled by this unexpected dilemma.
               It was now mid-day, and the rays of the unclouded sun shone directly through the tall trees upon the soft grass beneath; not the slightest breeze was stirring; not a ripple was visible on the clear waters of the lake, as it lay placid in the golden sunlight. Far beyond, in purple magnificence, rose the distant Bernese range, its lofty peaks wrapped in their eternal snows, but under the power of the blazing sun sending forth varied hues of flashing light.
               Their sublime beauty, thus visible from this humble spot, gave the place an air of serenity and repose.
               This valley of silence, however, with all its natural, unpretending beauty, did not suit our friend. Having knocked until he felt satisfied that no one was within, he stepped from the porch and took a survey of the whole domain. He found all the doors and windows tightly closed. Passing along a flower-border at the side of the house, he opened the garden gate. Still no one was to be seen. Glancing back, in some doubt which way to turn, he observed a ladder braced against a tree, from which depended something very like a pair of legs, which a nearer approach proved to be such. They evidently belonged to no sylvan deity, so St. Olef hallooed to their owner, expecting an immediate reply; but none came. The spell of impenetrable silence seemed to hold possession everywhere. Approaching the ladder the young man vented his vexation by giving it a violent shaking. A shower of ejaculations from the topmost round greeted this exposition of his feelings, and a very old man, bent nearly double, descended as he best could. With an effort he straitened himself up, and gazed at the stranger in ludicrous bewilderment.
               St. Olef soon discovered that the old man was nearly deaf. It was long before he could make him understand that he had come there to see Miss Acleigh.
               "Miss Acleigh, Monsieur? Our Lady? Ah!" placing his head in an attitude of fixed attention, as though listening to some slow-coming suggestion. "Miss Acleigh—ah yes—the brave General Acleigh—certainly Monsieur!" The old man with a bow and a smile, delighted at his own quickness, looked benignly at the impatient St. Olef. "Was Monsieur from Italy? The good Lady Orilia would be happy to see him. What could he do for Monsieur?"
               "Where is Miss Acleigh?"
               "Miss Acleigh? Ah yes—our Lady! It is her fete-day, Monsieur. She has just gone up the mountain with the young ladies. Will Monsieur follow them?"
               Despairing of getting any thing more definite, Monsieur grasped at the suggestion. But how was he to get to where the lady was?
               "Monsieur has but just to go out to the road—I will open the gate—and any little happy face he meets, let him ask the little one to take him to our Lady—he will meet plenty. This is our Lady's gala-day, and every body is happy."
               And surely it was so, for he had gone but a few steps when he heard little busy feet behind him, and looking round saw a bright little girl trotting briskly along, with a bunch of gay flowers in her hand, and a light basket on her arm, covered with a soft napkin.
               She smiled pleasantly as she came up, and St. Olef, saluting her, begged to know whither she was bound with such pretty flowers.
               She looked at him a little surprised for an instant, as though wondering who he could be that did not know all about this gala-day, but her native politeness kept her from expressing such thoughts, and she only answered, "Why, Monsieur, this is our Lady's fete-day, and this is my offering. My mamma bought them for me from old Gaspar, Count Gruyere's gardener."
               "And what is in the little basket?" again he asked.
               "Oh, these are sweet bon-bons. My mamma made them herself."
               "And are they, too, for 'our Lady?'" he inquired, much amused.
               
               "They are, Monsieur, but we have a table spread on the grass, and we all eat. Oh, it is lovely, Monsieur."
               "You must love this lady then, to give her so many nice things."
               "Yes, I do, Monsieur," she answered, while her bright face fairly glowed with animation. "Every body loves our Lady."
               "I would like to see this lady. Will you take me to see her? The proposition was received with great vivacity. She would be so glad to do so, and our Lady would be so happy. "But" she added, as if suddenly recollecting, "we will be late Monsieur—we must hurry, indeed we must!" St. Olef not moving quite as quickly as she desired, her distress overcame her good-humor, and she cried out, with much impatience, "Oh dear, Oh dear! Do, please hurry, Monsieur, we will be late for the crowning, what shall I do?"
               "Then do not wait for me;" said the young gentleman, professing to be piqued and a little hurt, although more amused than he had been for sometime, or than he could have thought it possible to be by such simple innocence. "It is no matter, I cannot move as fast as you. Don't you see I'm lame? You hurry on,—what is your name, my little maid?"
               "Bertha," she answered, almost with tears in her great eyes; her feelings of pity had been touched, and she excused herself and said she would wait ever so long. "I am so sorry, Monsieur, you are lame." And as they came to an abrupt, rising ground, Bertha set down her basket, putting out her little chubby hand and saying, "Pray, Monsieur, let me help you;" she with a great pull drew him up the ascent. Having accomplished this supposed feat, she was all herself again, assuring him most heroically it was of no consequence at all, her being at the crowning,—oh no, not at all! Still holding his hand, she prattled on with the greatest volubility, "our Lady, our Lady," being the constant theme.
               "And why do you call her 'Our Lady?'"
               This was rather a puzzling question to Bertha. In her warm impulsive way she was not apt to think of the "whys." But after a little hesitation she brightened up, saying,
               "My mamma will tell you all about it. She says we once had another lady, but that was a long time ago—even before I was a baby," as if that were certainly a very long time ago. "And mamma says when every body was sick and dying, the angels came and took that lady away, and every one felt so bad that the angels went to heaven again and found this lady, and brought her here to please them. And she went on and done the same good things, and so they called her Lady Orilia, for the other lady."
               "And is this lady as handsome as she is good?"
               "Indeed, I don't know, Monsieur. I believe she is. She isn't as handsome as the young ladies, Helena, or Viola. But when our baby Rudolph died in her arms, mamma said that a light from heaven shone on her face, and she was as beautiful as an angel."
               St. Olef smiled, but of course the little maiden did not notice this.
               And now they were at the entrance of the charmed place. A sort of natural ampitheatre in the mountain, covered with grass and walled around with rock, a cleft in which formed the narrow point of entrance to this fairy nook.
               A crowd of happy, smiling faces was gathered here; the old gardener had truly said that every countenance St. Olef met to-day would be glad and beaming.
               The youthful element certainly predominated among the merry-makers. There were a few grown persons, but the greater number were children. They were apparently at the very climax of their sport, for as St. Olef and his little companion came up there arose a vivacious clapping of hands, accompanied with vociferous expressions of delight.
               Bertha caught the enthusiasm and was almost wild with excitement. "Oh, Monsieur, let me see!" she cried.
               The crowning had, indeed, commenced. St. Olef persuaded the child to keep back, and he would lift her up to a projecting piece of rock where she could see every thing. He could by this maneuvre also screen himself from view, for he began to feel himself in rather an awkward position—truly an intruder—as he soon saw this was a sort of family-gathering or merry-making, not intended for stranger eyes. But now he was here he could not retreat, if he attempted to do so all eyes would be upon him. He could only keep in the shadow, sheltered by the ledge of rock on which the eager Bertha was mounted.
               The crowning was in fact a very simple matter. A lady, who to his eyes appeared quite advanced in years, but who really had scarcely reached middle life, was seated upon an elevated rustic chair, which was canopied around with garlands and flowers, while two lovely girls, their faces beaming with delight, were placing a crown of laurel leaves on her head. She had rather resisted the proffered honor, wishing to hold the circlet in her hand, but, "You must, you must!" arose on every side, and one of the young girls playfully holding the lady's hands in her own, the other placed the wreath triumphantly upon the dark coils of hair, and kissed the forehead of the embarrassed but smiling queen.
               And then rang out shouts of laughter, accompanied with showers of boquets and loud clapping of hands. "All hail to our lady Queen!" cried a gleeful chorus of youthful voices.
               Our little maiden, the merry Bertha, perched on her high seat, the gay ribands in her long, plaited hair floating on the mountain breeze, had caught the full spirit of the occasion. She was a quaint looking little piece of humanity, and the everlasting black peasant-cap tied so primly around her rosy face, did not diminish her quaintness. Much to the discomfiture of her companion, she would indulge in loud peals of laughter, clapping her hands with unrestrained glee. It was all of no avail for him to caution her to keep quiet; the caution was forgotten the very next moment.
               "Oh Monsieur," she cried out, "if mamma and the baby were only here!"
               And as if the fates had determined on a complete exposure, in one of those lulls which so often follow great excitement, a stray dog that was frisking about, suddenly espied Bertha's little basket, which had been, unfortunately, placed on the ground, and in a twinkling turned it over and scattered the contents,
               "Oh, my bon-bons!" screamed the child, as with a bound she sprang from the rock, leaving St. Olef in full view, with all eyes turned toward the spot.
               There was no help for it now. He must make the best of it. Little Bertha, having partially recovered her treasures, at last remembered her protege, and ran forward saying,
               "Here is a gentleman wants to see you very much!"
               Of course there was much confusion and embarrassment. The blushing young ladies had shyly retreated behind the ample rustic chair, and the children Stood staring in open-eyed wonder. The lady herself was the first to recover her self-possession; descending from her flowery throne, she stepped toward the stranger, who now came forward with his usual easy grace, and apologized for his accidental presence, introducing himself by name as coming with letters from General Acleigh for his daughter. To his astonishment he found that the queen of the festival was no other than Miss Acleigh herself. Slightly glancing over the packet of letters, she held out her hand, and welcomed him most cordially. Then, penetrating his disappointment, she added with a kindly smile,
               "You will hardly find me a fitting companion for your youth—but here are my young friends,"—beckoning the retreating girls to come forward. "I hope they will atone for my deficiencies and make the place endurable to you."
               She then introduced the young ladies as Helena and Viola—her two children almost—so much were they with her.
               The Lady Orilia, as she was called among the people, and as we shall therefore in courtesy designate her, deserves more than a mere passing mention; she had raised herself by her acts of benevolence, and her zeal for the welfare and improvement of the peasantry, to a high place in the consideration of all. When St. Olef was fairly over his surprise at not finding Miss Acleigh a young person, (for he had supposed, without much reflection, perhaps because the General always called her "his child," that she was a mere girl) he felt that he was in the presence of a superior woman. She was not handsome, by any means, nor even what is termed fine-looking, but there was that about her which conveyed a sense of power, of deep penetration. In her presence you felt that truth was the only safety. Her clear judgment read the heart unerringly. Yet you also felt that that judgment was tempered by wise consideration and mercy. There are two extremes of human character; those who exhibit the highest goodness of our common nature, and those who, descending to its lowest depth, give us our conception of all that is evil. Between these two are the many ranges of intermediate character, all diverging more or less toward one or the other of these great extremes. Some pass through life blessing 
                     it it
                     it
                   by their very existence—modifying its inconsistencies, and rendering more attractive its higher and better aspects. Other lives are but a curse to the world, spreading sorrow and sin, stirring up the malaria of bad passions, until the poison of their moral atmosphere taints and destroys all within its reach.
               The good Lady Orilia had chosen the better way. She had come to this canton a stranger, many years since, at a time when a dangerous epidemic swept the place, and as the little Bertha had said, just at the time when another ministering spirit, a lady of rank and wealth, and of great benevolence, had been taken from them. And well had she filled the vacant place, gaining the love and esteem of all, until they came to look upon her with a feeling of reverence akin to worship.
               She seldom spoke of herself, and seemed to avoid the subject altogether. Those who knew her best, knew that there was a history of deep meaning connected with her life, but in deference to her feelings it was never alluded to; its storms and trials, its heart-searching agonies, had all passed; and now, in the calm and equanimity of a well-earned content, her days glided away.
               Her circumstances at present were independent. On her first coming among them she had established schools, into which she had introduced many improvements on their old systems. A small payment for instruction was exacted from the very poorest, in order to cultivate, if possible, a feeling, of true independence, in contradistinction to that humiliating spirit it too often engendered by the reception of charity. To cultivate this nobler state of mind, to educate the hearts as well as the intellects of her pupils, Lady Orilia had taxed all the resources of her quick and intuitive mind. And though she was not now obliged to work, still she did work as persistently as ever; A friend in a distant country had died and left her a large property, and her father was reputed wealthy, but her desire to benefit her fellow beings only enlarged with her means, her duties increased, her time was all filled—nothing went to waste in her life.
               Meantime the little ones were waiting, gaping at the stranger, and wondering what was to be the end of all this.
               Presently the Lady Orilia announced that she must leave them, that it was necessary she should return home with her guest, who was tired after his long journey and needed rest.
               St. Olef, seeing the disappointment of the children, and their eager desire that she should remain, courteously requested her to do so—he could wander about for a few hours. He would not on any account spoil the day's sport of the little ones.
               But the lady decided otherwise. Viola and Helena would take charge of them. And they would enjoy their nice refreshments ments seated on the grass together, quite as well as if she was with them. Calling the rosy-faced children about her, she said with mock solemnity that as they had chosen her as their Queen, they must obey her in all things; at which they laughed most heartily. She then directed them, on pain of her royal displeasure, to set about their play immediately. A great scampering and hurrahing ensued; away flew the merry courtiers, little Bertha among the rest, having entirely forgotten her new-found friend, and all the troubles he had brought upon her.
               In a short time Lady Orilia and her guest were seated in the pretty parlor of "Le Petit Chateau." St. Olef, notwithstanding his desire to make a pleasant impression, and interest his hostess by giving minute details concerning her father's health and pursuits, could not conceal the fact that he was terribly fatigued, and after they had partaken of some light refreshments she insisted upon his taking rest for awhile, and showed him to the rooms which were to be appropriated to his use while he remained at the Chateau.
               A very attractive suite of apartments it was, opening out upon a neat little garden, enclosed by itself. There were plenty of books and pictures, and easy chairs.
               "You must enjoy yourself in your own way," said Lady Orilia pleasantly. "You are your own master—be alone or with us—just as you please. My great desire will be to see you restored to health."
               As she left him she said, "This evening we are expecting a few friends. If you are sufficiently rested, I would be glad to have you join us."
               When St. Olef was left alone, he lighted his fragrant Havana, and throwing himself with a delightful sense of ease among the cushions of a luxurious arm-chair, began to congratulate himself as a lucky dog. A very lucky dog. He could not remember ever putting himself much out of the way for any one, and yet it seemed as if all the world was ready to serve him.
               He looked around his pleasant quarters, and then reviewed, in his cool, dispassionate way, the doings of the last two days. His interview with the Count Gruyere had been on the whole rather satisfactory; he had measured himself with that magnate, and the result far exceeded his expectations. Pierre St. Olef certainly, in the most modest conception of himself, had no reason to blush in this companionship. A sneer of contempt passed over his countenance at the mere thought of companionship with this proud scion of unimpeachable lineage.
               Then the lovely faces of the two sweet young girls he had seen to-day floated before his imagination. If he had heard aright, they too were inmates of this little paradise. Could any thing be more exquisite?
               "A lucky fellow, to be sure!" he repeated. "Who would have dreamed of such a fate among these mountains?"
               The Lady Orilia, sitting alone in the twilight, had also her musings. Had St. Olef known her first impression in regard to himself it would have made sad havoc in the pleasing vanity that now possessed him. Notwithstanding his elegant exterior, her first glance at the young stranger who presented himself so unexpectedly at the mountain-frolic, had not prepossessed her in his favor. But when she heard that he came from her father, an instant revulsion took place in her feelings. The shadow of distrust vanished at once. He was to her her father's adopted son, one of whom his letters had made frequent mention in terms of the deepest interest. This was sufficient to lead her to take the youth to her heart and devote every energy to his care and welfare.
               And thus she too had her pleasing thoughts.
               Pleasing thoughts—stirring up her activities and affections to serve him in every way, who, luxuriously taking his ease in the chamber near by, was congratulating himself on being "a lucky dog!"
               And at this moment, no doubt he was—had all his schemes and dreams but ended here.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               "LE PETIT CHATEAU."
               "LE PETIT CHATEAU", as it was affectionately designated by the friends of the Lady Orilia, was about as incongruous in its interior as in its exterior arrangements. Some of its apartments were too large, some too small, while all were put together without 
                     mnch
                     much
                   reference to either order or beauty.
               The central hall, from which diverged, the various rooms and passages, was of considerable extent; it had formerly been an open court, around which all these small buildings congregated. It was now covered in and lighted with a glass dome, from which swung a large lantern illuminating the passages at night. Every room and passage opened out of doors; some on the lawn or leading to the lake, the garden or the many out-buildings.
               The drawing-room, which St. Olef entered after his afternoon's rest, corresponded with the rest of the house; it was a narrow, low room, neatly furnished, looking bright and cheerful, with its many mirrors and lights, and with long white draperies waving in the summer air on the windows leading out on the balconies and lawn. In this room he found only the lady hostess; but presently entered the blooming beauties of the afternoon. They were again introduced as Helena and Viola, without any farther explanation or formality,
               The visitor found them rather shy when he attempted to enter into conversation, for they had not yet gotten over the mortification of their first meeting; but the embarrassment of all was soon relieved by the assembling of the expected company.
               St. Olef had taken great pains with his personal appearance and looked remarkably well in his undress military uniform.
               The first arrival was the Mayor of Berne, round, sleek and well preserved; his fair, smooth brow spoke of unclouded thought, while his large light eyes, beaming with unwonted satisfaction, looked as though he were entirely content with himself; so well pleased, indeed, that he was disposed to regard with benign complacency all others. On his strong arm leaned his sister, a pale, timid woman, who seemed to exist but in the light of his assuring presence. To the Lady Orilia he was delightfully agreeable, and the young ladies he patronised in the most gallant style.
               A crowd now filled the apartment; there was deputy Lebrun, of Berne, also with his lady and daughters, most agreeable people, but commonplace. Then a number of young persons from Neuchatel, with the physician of the neighborhood and wife, and an old lady, Madame Ponson, who seemed to be known to all. It was a pleasant gathering, sufficiently large to allow the company to separate into little knots for special enjoyment, and yet not so large as to destroy the pleasure of general conversation.
               Of course St. Olef was introduced to all, and received with the utmost cordiality. There were many questions to ask about beautiful Italy, and the old General, who was personally known to many of them, all of which questions he answered in his most captivating manner, and became a general favorite at once.
               None knew better than he how to take advantage of circumstances, and this evening he felt disposed to be particularly brilliant; he knew that admiring eyes were on him, and his natural listless hauteur gave place, for a time, to a more genial mood.
               But he really was not equal to the exertion; his late journey, and present unusual excitement, in his weak state were too much for him, and there was great and universal alarm when it was found that the distinguished guest was attacked with a sudden faintness. He had been standing some time in the centre of the room with a group of young people, when a sudden quick pain shot through the wounded limb, and he staggered and almost fell. The Lady Orilia blamed herself very much that she had not thought of the danger, and now insisted that he must lie down on the couch in the recess at the upper end of the drawing room. There he would see every thing that was going on, but he must keep perfectly quiet. Old Madame Ponson volunteered in her kind-heartedness to take charge of him, to sit by him and see that he attended strictly to all the good lady's orders.
               After some little resistance he submitted to the necessity, and soon became quite reconciled to it. The curiosity he felt was being satisfied to the fullest extent; this kindly, talkative old lady was now in her element and ready to tell him all he wished to know. She was one of those good souls who take an interest in every thing that is going on, and could give him a history of every one in the room, and their ancestors too, if he desired. "There were the Lebruns—she knew them all well. There was very little there, however They had identified themselves with the changes in their little canton, but they were people that always managed to keep on the right side. And there was the Mayor of Berne too—so very pretentious. Why, his father was but a crier in the court where her father sat as judge."
               Thus she ran on with volubility, asking no answer, only begging he would not speak.
               "Any excitement, now, my dear young friend," she said anxiously, "you know, is so very dangerous. There was my nephew, Baron Louis, and my uncle, old Marshal Ponson, both were wounded at Bonicia, and one lost his leg, and the other his life, being fatigued after their wounds were nearly healed. Thus you see I have reason to desire you should be very careful."
               This was certainly encouraging to the sick man, but fortunately this young gentleman's nerves were not of a kind to take alarm at every one's fancies.
               "And you were wounded in such a noble cause," pursued the kind old lady. "Oh, I have heard all about it! You need not be ashamed, Monsieur, it only makes you doubly interesting; all the girls were dying about you, even before they saw you, I have myself prayed many, many times for your recovery.
               "Thank you," he repeated in his most gracious manner; but he was impatient withal, he did not care to hear about himself; he wanted to hear something about those two young ladies, Helena, and Viola. He had made some indirect attempts to lead conversation in that direction, but as yet without avail, and the good lady would have felt anything but complimented, had she heard his inward anathemas at her stupidity.
               At last, observing his eyes fixed upon Viola, who was standing in a graceful attitude of thoughtfulness beside a mirror at the extreme end of the long, narrow room, she exclaimed enthusiastically. "Is she not beautiful? Indeed, Monsieur, I always think of the angels in heaven when I look at her—her tall, slight figure enveloped in those white, gauzy robes, and her small head crowned with that mass of pale yellow hair, just tinged with gold, and the deep blue of those sweet, beseeching eyes, such a delightful contrast with the whiteness of the skin, and the rich bloom of the cheek! Oh, she is lovely, angelic, you cannot but be charmed, Monsieur."
               He admitted the potency of the charms. but still, he added cautiously, "they did not so much please his fancy as the bright beauty of the more earthly-looking young lady, Mademoiselle Helena, who was just then approaching."
               "Fie, Monsieur, it cannot be—you have no taste! Not but that our sweet Helena is as good and amiable, and I love her just as well. But it is of beauty we speak, there is the same difference as between the rose and the rare exotic. The one hardy, fit to bear the strong blast, the other spiritual, ethereal, midway as it were between heaven and earth." And then afraid it might seem as though she were depreciating Helena, she added, "You understand, Monsieur, we are only speaking of beauty. I love the dear girls equally. I sometimes say to our bright Helena, that she does not allow that speaking face of hers to remain long enough in repose, to allow me to know exactly what she is like, and where her real beauty lies." The young gentleman smiled in his blandest mood; he understood—he wished to know more.
               There was a short silence; then he ventured to ask, were these young girls sisters—did they both live here with Lady Orilia?
               "Helena does," was the reply, "Viola does not. She is here at present on a visit, while her mother is from home—gone abroad, I believe. Oh no, they are not sisters—how could you imagine so?"
               "It was not from any similarity of appearance, but because they are so much attached. There is an ease of manner between them as though they were sisters."
               "You are right, Monsieur—you observe well," said the old lady, "you are happy in being young. I was once so myself—nothing then escaped my attention. These young ladies truly love each other as sisters, and seem, in every thing but looks, as such, and they have been almost, one may say, brought up together. There is quite a story connected with this—but perhaps Monsieur knows all about it?"
               St. Olef assured her! he did not. He would be greatly interested in hearing all about the young ladies, if Madame would kindly indulge him.
               Of course Madame would, and only be too happy—but he must listen—he must not talk any more.
               St. Olef promised quiescence, unless the narrative should prove too exciting. And seated in their cozy nook, with the hum of gay voices sounding about them, the old lady began her story.
               "Every body knows that our sweet 
                     Vila
                     Viola
                   was in early life considered rather deficient, almost, in fact, idiotic. It was reserved for our good Lady Orilia to prove that this was not really the case. Viola's parents are very strange people. Her father is remarkably eccentric—I should say insane—and her mother, although of a different character, is very little better. She has resisted all the advances of the neighboring gentry toward friendship, treating all those who called upon her with the most haughty indifference. Bah, they are mere parvenues! They have abundant wealth, however, that is evident. When they first came here, they purchased a deserted old mansion known as "Wolfden Abbey," with its extensive grounds. There they have lived ever since, shut up in its wild loneliness, having no intercourse with the outside world, except through the country people, who carry in what they have to sell, and I believe get well paid for it."
               "An important item," interrupted the invalid.
               "Very," said the old lady, innocently.
               "Had they no servants?"
               "Monsieur will recollect he is not to talk. Servants—of course—such as they were! A half-barbarous set of foreigners they brought with them, who could speak nothing but their native tongue—which accounts for our knowing so little about the people of the Abbey. For you know, Monsieur," she said, with an expressive shrug, "servants will gossip. They are English—or American—I do not know, or care to know, which. Though I ought not to say so, for our dear Lady Orilia, whom we all love so much, is of the same race. For her sake, and for the sweet Viola's, I ought to be more careful. Poor Viola, I can hardly conceive how she can belong to such people! But she owes all her development of mind, and the expressive beauty of her face, even, to the Lady Orilia, who roused all her dormant powers to animation. I think it truly wonderful—wonderful! Why, my dear Monsieur, I recollect when I first saw Viola, she was a little helpless thing, fair as a lily, and as inanimate. She would lie in a half-unconscious state pillowed up in her little wicker carriage, in which her maid drew her through the meadows or among the woods of the Abbey. There were many tales among the common people about this child—how in her tender infancy she had seen such scenes of violence and strife that her senses had been scared from her. But of course this was merely conjecture. There was, however, some little coloring given to the idea by the excessive timidity of the child, for whenever roused at all by being caressed or spoken to, she would show such signs of terror that it was truly distressing. Time went on, but there was no improvement. Of course we knew nothing about her, only as we met her in this way. She was at this time five or six years old, but she seemed like a mere infant in strength and intelligence. I often met the little creature, taking her airing with the nurse, and loved and pitied the child from the bottom of my heart. I tried once to get the stupid maid to explain what was the matter with it, but she could not seem to understand. You smile, Monsieur, are you interested—shall I proceed?"
               "Certainly," said St. Olef, "I am in a fever of anxiety for the finale. Any delay will be extremely detrimental to my health—you say the maid was stupid?"
               "They always are—one can make little out of them! But, fortunately, one day I was taking Lady Orilia out in my caleche to see some of her poor people, when we met the nurse and her little charge on the road up the mountain. As we might expect, the Lady Orilia was at once interested. She would alight to speak to the child. To our astonishment, the little creature seemed to listen. Could it be that the voice seemed familiar—or was it that it spoke so kindly in the accents of her native tongue? Whatever it was, the child gave the first intelligent cry we had ever heard it utter, and looked wistfully after Lady Orilia, as she turned to leave. And then, such a time as we had! The maid fell to screaming and sobbing. She seemed to love the child devotedly. 'O, my darling is saved!' she died. And then she threw her arms around Lady Orilia—and such a scene! But the result was a perfect cure. It took time, and an immense amount of labor and patience to bring it about, but I our dear lady never faltered. Her sweet voice, tempered with that pure love that fills her whole soul, stirred in some mysterious way the inert nerves, and infused life and healthful activity into the slothful currents of the poor child's blood. It seemed to be re-created.
               "At first the maid brought the little thing stealthily to the noble woman who took such a deep interest in it. But finding the charm continue, she became more bold, and at last, with the consent of her master, came daily. The mother, it was said, opposed it altogether, but the father, in this instance, acted with reason, and would have his way; and finally it came about that the child lived here almost altogether, growing all the time in strength and beauty, as well as intellectual vigor. But, as Lady Orilia says, she can never be very strong, on account of the delicacy of her organization and the acuteness of her sensibilities. Indeed, it is through them that her recovery has been accomplished. She cannot be roused to exertion by any reasoning, but touch her feelings, and she is all alive. Sweet, good, and amiable, she is as much an angel in thought as she is in looks. When she was grown, her parents took her home; it almost broke her heart. Her mother is away at present, visiting some of the royal courts, I understand, so Viola stays at the Chateau; for her poor father, they say, is growing more demented every year, and is not a fit companion for any one. It is also rumored that the mother, now that her daughter has grown to such loveliness, entertains some ambitious views in regard to her settlement, and that this has something to do with her journey. But of course this is a mere surmise. I do hope it will be well with the dear girl."
               They were now interrupted by the handing round of tea and coffee, with other simple refreshments, and conversation became more general and animated.
               Helena was everywhere among the guests, bright, and cheerful, diffusing a feeling of pleasure wherever she went by her wit and animation.
               Viola was more quiet. Seated in a low cushioned chair, from which she seldom rose during the evening, she received attention with a winning grace, but did not bestow any. There was a delicate languor about her that harmonized well with her style of beauty. None asked from her—it seemed as though she were created to receive, not to give. Her gentle, dependent way, so sweetly appreciative, made it a luxury to serve her. No one stopped to analyze the indolence or impotence of such a character; they but followed the best instincts of their nature in doing her good.
               "It is strange," said old Madame Ponson, as she sipped her tea, unable to give up the interesting theme, "I can not feel the same anxiety about Helena's future that I do about Viola's. There is so much life and spirit about Helena, she makes friends wherever she is. She came among us when quite a little girl, accompanying Lady Orilia, and an aged lady, her grandmother. We all took little Helena to our hearts instantly, and loved her as our own. We could not help it, she was such a bright, engaging child."
               Just then the young lady herself approached. She inquired in an easy graceful way after St. Olef's health, and was very sorry he had fatigued himself by standing so long.
               "So long at the exhibition this morning?" suggested St. Olef, with something of her own sprightliness.
               "No, no, Monsieur—do not speak of it, I pray!" she exclaimed, her face lighting up with a brilliant bloom. "I am so mortified! Viola and I have been talking about it, and how very ridiculous we must have appeared. So do not allude to it again."
               He was about to tell her how charmed he had been with his unexpected position of spy among so many fair and frolicsome maidens, and how provoked he was with the little witch who had dispelled his enjoyment, when a message came from Lady Orilia—Helena was wanted immediately. Cutting short his compliments, she hastened away.
               St. Olef's eyes followed her admiringly, as she passed down the room. He thought he saw her start, and fancied her color rose as the Mayor of Berne, not over-wise in the mystery of young ladies' thoughts, arrested her steps, and inquired in his usual pronounced manner,
               "Well, Mademoiselle, where is our pastor to-night?"
               On receiving an assurance that she did not know, the Mayor replied, in spite of her apparent confusion,
               "Ah, I suppose, as usual, with his shadow—that devoted friend! This must be seen to, Mademoiselle, indeed it must."
               "What must be seen to?" said Lady Orilia, coming to the rescue. She had noticed Helena's distress. Indeed, the attention of the company had been attracted by the loud tones of the gentleman's voice, who had commenced his harangue in a light, bantering spirit, but the importance of the subject growing upon him as he proceeded, concluded in a solemn, portentous manner.
               "What is to be seen to, Monsieur?" repeated the hostess, playfully, allowing Helena to escape in the confusion of this change of attack.
               "Well, well, I mean, my dear lady, that these Jesuits are dangerous fellows, yes, that is it, dangerous, insinuating fellows."
               At that moment a commotion at the door made it evident that new comers had arrived, and two gentlemen were ushered in, the elder of whom was greeted by the hostess as the Abbe Vinett, and the younger, as pastor Renshawe.
               These gentlemen seemed to be generally known to the company, and were received with much cordiality. St. Olef recognized with some surprise, the Abbe with whom he had breakfasted at Count Gruyere's chateau that morning. He did not heed the groan of the dear old lady beside him, as she ejaculated, "Ah me, it is as our good Mayor feared!" for he was now all intent on watching Helena, who had recovered her self-possession, and was speaking to the pastor. "A shy booby, I should judge," was St. Olef's private ejaculation. He took at once a strong antipathy to the young man. Was it perhaps an incipient qualm of envy? He fancied he saw the deepening color on Helena's face as she returned with a beaming smile the embarrassed salutation of the pastor.
               But again he thought, had she not smiled as brightly on himself but a few moments previous? And did she not smile pleasantly on all? Bah, she was a girl of too much sense and spirit, to be caught by such a pale-faced donkey as that! Yet even this reasoning could not quiet the deep feeling of malevolence with which he eyed the fortunate intruder; and St. Olef's dislikes were never of a very harmless kind.
               "And why so late, Messieurs?" asked the lady hostess, in her pleasant way, after the first greetings were over.
               The Abbe answered, that he was on his way to join this charming reunion, when his young friend—bowing to the pastor—overtook him, bound hitherward also, and unconsciously, almost, they had fallen into a discussion and kept walking on till they were some distance out of their way, and then they had to retrace their steps. "And you see the result;" he added. "But he begged ten thousand pardons. It was all his fault. He hoped his young friend would be exonerated."
               "Ah, ha, my lady," exclaimed the Mayor of Berne, triumphantly. "Am I not a true prophet? Did I not scent the coming danger in the air? What is this, Monsieur Abbe? We must see to this. And as I am not, in homely phrase, one of those who fear to say to one's face, what they will say behind one's back, I will again repeat, that you Jesuits are such plausible insinuating fellows, that whoever may fall into your clutches, will find it pretty hard work to get out of them. For myself," he continued with a grand gesture, significant of vast resources of strength, "I would not shrink to enter the lists with a thousand such adversaries. But our young friend here, simple and unsuspicious,"—this was said in a truly patronizing manner—"I would advise him to beware! And to be frank, Monsieur Abbe, allow me to say, I would urge him to keep out of your way altogether; it is dangerous. I beg pardon, but it is dangerous, Monsieur."
               The loud tones of the speaker's voice had attracted all eyes to them. Indeed, our Mayor was not one to waste his eloquence on a few, whatever he had to say was worthy the attention of all. His fine, portly figure, and authoritative manner, gave a certain air of importance to what he said, and as he stood erect in the center of the room, a group of eager listeners soon gathered round.
               But the Abbe was not at all discomposed. With his usual blandness, he answered,
               "Monsieur Mayor is, I think, somewhat mistaken in his estimate both of myself and my esteemed friend, the pastor. I presume the respected Mayor alludes to the danger of theological controversy; but he need have no fears in regard to undue influence. Let me assure the worthy May or that I have found my young adversary's attainments such that I do not care to measure swords with him in any argument touching his or my own orthodoxy. And indeed," he added, with a slight touch of irony, "I make it a sacred duty never to disturb the profound depths of an undoubting mind. To be candid, Monsieur, although perhaps you will give me little credit for such virtue, these questions have little interest for me—and I think I may answer for my friend, that he is of the same mind, also."
               "Tut, tut! No, it can not be!" cried the irate Mayor. "It can not be that you consider these theological issues of no importance! Why," turning upon the pastor, "young man, they are the very soul of your business! Now, answer for yourself, is this so?" demanded the man of power, with authoritative energy.
               It is embarrassing at any time to be the subject of personal comment, but how much more so when the attention of a room full of people is directed toward you! The reserved young man, at any time unhappily timid and out of place in these social gatherings, felt that it was cruel and in bad taste to drag him thus into publicity. He knew that some answer was expected of him, and that all were on the qui vive for a smart passage of words.
               
               He knew, too, that there were many present who would enjoy with much zest any keen retort he might make; for though the good Mayor was highly respected, he was not a general favorite. He was one of those individuals gifted with such an enormous stock of complacency that they are always on good terms with themselves. On which account fallible human nature is apt to take pleasure in their occasional discomfiture.
               But this did not help the pastor. There was one pair of eyes upon him, eager, expectant, that at any time threw him a little off his balance. All this gave him such an intense self-consciousness that he was utterly helpless. His tongue clove to the roof of his mouth; every thing became exaggerated. Even if he should speak, the sound of his own voice would startle him. Oh, that something would happen to break this spell, and lift off this incubus! A dreadful pause.
               At last the pastor stammered out something to the effect that it was not so much that theological issues were of small importance, as that the Abbe and himself had so many other interesting topics of conversation that they rather avoided these much vexed controversial questions, which seldom gave satisfaction, and were certainly doubtful of good result.
               This was an unfortunate admission; it brought a fresh torrent of rebuke from his adversary, now glowing with righteous indignation.
               "For shame, young man!" he cried. "You disgrace your calling by such light words—yes, you disgrace your moat holy office!"
               The matter was becoming too painful and personal. There was great confusion, and evident sympathy with the pastor. Even old Madame Ponson, who felt the awfulness of the situation, could not repress her motherly tenderness for the culprit.
               "He is so young," she whispered apologetically to St. Olef.
               The Lady Orilia made an effort to interpose, but nothing could now stay the excited Mayor. He had the floor, and must be heard. Duty, also, added, its force to the occasion. He had heard many and strange rumors touching the orthodoxy of the delinquent; now was the time to know on what ground he stood. Now was the time; with all these young people standing about, to handle error with proper sharpness.
               "Yes, Monsieur pastor, you are wrong, you are committing a sin. It is your place to be at all times girded with the armor of truth, and to make use of every opportunity to put down these damning heresies," a withering frown at the Abbe, "that are creeping among us. Where now," he continued, waving his hand toward his more youthful and excitable hearers, "Where now would be those glorious religious liberties of which we are so justly proud," here the Abbe gave a suggestive shrug, "had the great and good who suffered for those liberties, and died for them, held such sentiments as these—had they regarded theological controversies as of no avail? And here, too, in the very hot-bed of reformation, to advance such ideas! What would our fathers—what would the immortal Farrel say to this? It is very reprehensible, and would be altogether unpardonable, were it not—yes, were it not for the youth and inexperience of our pastor."
               The Mayor sat down, wiping his broad brow with his snow-white cambric, and remarking with much forbearance that he was ready to listen to any apologies the young man might wish to make for his thoughtless inadvertence of speech.
               There was a blank pause. Each listener felt that a mistake had been made—an undue importance given to words that but for this would have been forgotten as soon as uttered. Yet no one knew what to say. The age and earnestness of the speaker precluded the possibility of passing the whole thing over as a jest, and yet it seemed more like an awkward jest than any thing else.
               Deputy Lebrun, with most pacific intent, made an attempt to explain away the difficulty, but this only made matters worse. He cleared his throat, hemmed once or twice, and retired asking pardon. He hoped he had not interfered—both the gentlemen were his particular friends, etc.
               Perhaps of all present, none more speedily regained their ease than the immediate object of this assault. A little too much had been said; he had been driven to the wall; now he turned at bay, all fear and trepidation gone. Perhaps he was a trifle more flushed, and his eye burned a little more brightly than usual, but still he was calm, as he answered that he had no apology nor retraction of any kind to make. What he had said he believed; though had he been aware that his words were to be thus sharply analyzed, he might have been more careful in their selection. He had thought, however, that he was among friends who understood him, and were ready to put the best instead of the worst 
                     constuction
                     construction
                   on whatever he might say.
               "And Monsieur Mayor, allow me to add," he continued with emphasis, looking that gentleman steadily in the face, "I could hardly have chosen a better illustration of my theory than you yourself have given, in your intemperate zeal and great injustice to myself and friend, of the evil of introducing such subjects into general conversation."
               The hot-headed Mayor was furious. He rose irate; his words came thick and fast. St. Olef smiled, and tender-hearted Madame Ponson actually covered her face with her handkerchief, to hide her emotion.
               There was a general commotion, in the midst of which the Lady Orilia stepped up to the angry Mayor, and putting her arm in his, said with decision, "Come, Monsieur, the music is waiting. Viola is going to sing. We can not delay any longer."
               His gallantry would not allow him to hesitate, and so he was carried off in triumph to the music-room, the rest of the company following.
               When the pastor offered his arm to Helena he found her trembling, and much agitated, and being near one of the long windows opening on the lawn, he asked her to step out and get the air. As they paced gently to and fro, fanned by the refreshing night wind, the young man anxiously inquired the cause of his companion's disturbance. Was she ill?
               Helena answered carelessly, "It was only a little faintness—the room was very warm, and she was tired, and—and—" concluding in true womanly fashion, by bursting into a violent fit of weeping.
               The pastor was in a terrible state of alarm. What had he done? What could he do? He would die to serve her.
               All this was uttered in so incoherent a strain, and in an accent of so much despair, that it served to counteract the young lady's excitement. With a strong effort she restrained her sobs to assure the pastor that he had not done any thing. It was—it was that horrid Mayor of Berne—so cruel, so unfeeling—she hated him!
               And then, as it occurred to her how unaccountable this excitement must seem, she suddenly ceased her tirade, and began to give reasons for her emotion; which reasons rendered the matter more delightfully obscure than ever.
               But a light had broken on the pastor's mind, that filled his whole being with a new impulse of joy. He whispered softly, with a beating heart,
               "Was it on my account, Helena, you were thus agitated—tell me this."
               "Oh, no—yes—" she replied, hurriedly. "I do not know, altogether. Something overcame me. I never was so angry in all my life! But I must return to the house. How strange my absence will appear!"
               She turned hastily to re-enter.
               "One moment—one moment," said he, beseechingly, "that I may thank you for your kind sympathy, Helena. But," he added, "perhaps it was only pity—pity that your generous nature would feel toward any one placed in so humbling a position."
               "But you were not humbled," she returned turned quickly. "It was he that was humbled—with his foolish platitudes and self-sufficiency. Every one saw it—every one felt it!"
               Helena was in danger of another outbreak. She avoided that catastrophe by a hasty retreat.
               The pastor was in no mood to return to the company with her. He was deeply excited. For a moment, at least, he must indulge his feelings. He turned down the path leading through the lawn toward the lake. Wandering along the water's edge, he sought to recover his composure, and quiet his perturbed thoughts.
               He had long admired Helena, bowing a willing captive at the shrine of her brightness and beauty. But he had worshipped at a distance; so great a distance, that it seemed as if no effort of his could ever bridge over the chasm between them. He had not ventured even to hope. But now, within a few brief moments, a new light had dawned upon him, dazzling him even to blindness. He was bewildered in a maze of conflicting thoughts. Could it possibly be that Helena felt any particular interest for him? He reviewed all the circumstances—her agitation—her half-acknowledged sympathy—the broken words she had uttered—and a thrill of delight passed though his soul.
               But then again he thought, "It is only the warm, generous impulses of her nature that are moved. She would feel for any one in disgrace."
               Thus he tormented himself; one moment elated, the next all despondent. Full of resolves that he would end this painful uncertainty—he would, he must know more—the pastor wandered on, scarcely heeding whither, till he came to where the mountain, narrowing sharply down to the water's edge, threw a dense shadow over land and lake, As he hesitated a moment whether to round its promontory, a deep sigh caught his ear.
               He started and listened; again that deep sigh. This time, however, it was close beside him, and a figure emerging from the shadow, stood out in the moonlight.
               The pastor recognized at once the intruder on his reverie. It was Viola's unfortunate father.
               Contrary to his usual habit, he now sought the companionship of his kind. Seeing the pastor about to turn away, he cried out imploringly,
               "Oh, do not leave me, I pray! I need your pity—I am suffering torture to-night. This fiend pursues me; it comes nearer and nearer. Can you save me?" The maniac groaned and sobbed, and seated himself on a rock by the 
                     waysde
                     wayside
                  , trembling like an aspen leaf.
               Forgetting his own difficulties, the pastor endeavored to soothe the poor unfortunate, so long the dread of himself and the people around; "The Madman of the Mountain," as he was called, to frighten the children, and keep them from wandering in forbidden places.
               Whatever fear the pastor might have felt for this wild-looking recluse, vanished instantly when he heard himself appealed to for help and sympathy. Sitting down beside the bowed figure, he spoke in soft and soothing accents. The insane man listened to his comforter, and for a moment ceased his cries. Then, suddenly averting his face, he begged that he might not be pitied.
               "Oh, do not feel for me," he exclaimed, "else I must fly—that is my punishment. I dare not receive pity. Don't you see that watching face? I do not deserve, I have not deserved the pity of any human soul; and never on this earth must I receive it. Spurn me, treat me with contempt, but do not speak to me with tenderness."
               There was little use in endeavoring to reason with such a mind. Poor, self-tormented victim, he seemed but to live to expiate some real or fancied crime. It was said that he ate but the coarsest food, and barely sufficient to maintain life. He went clothed in the meanest garments and haunted the solitudes of the woods and mountains. Even the sight of his family was abhorrent to him, and his daughter's presence excited him to wildest frenzy.
               The pastor's soothing words failed of their kind intent. They seemed to excite more fearfully the dark and hopeless mind that but dimly comprehended their meaning. "No, no," was the dreary answer, "do not talk to me thus! A damning sin must have its damning punishment. I have thrown innocence and love and duty from me, and a fearful fiend has tracked me ever since, watching, watching that I receive no kindness, no pity. Your words are a mockery; they stab me to the soul. My only hope is in being reviled and cursed."
               "But may not this morbid desire for self-punishment be another form of that selfishness that seeks its own gratification alone? If you have sinned, do not torment others with your vain expiations; do not make all that love you suffer with you."
               "But who says I have sinned?" cried the madman fiercely, turning upon the pastor.
               "Yourself;" was the unflinching reply. "And in this estrangement, this neglect of your family and all the duties that belong to us individually in life, you are adding to, not diminishing the amount of wrong of which you may have been guilty."
               "Would you have a man smile," said the other, with a momentary calmness that seemed almost like sanity, "and look upon God's blessings with composure, when he has sinned—deeply sinned?"
               "No; but I would have him, by an active determination to do right, try to overcome the evil that is done."
               This seemed to touch a sensitive chord. In a voice of wildest despair, the maniac cried, "I cannot, I cannot! It is too late, Oh, God, it is too late!"
               After a long pause he again raised his head, whispering in harsh and solemn tones. "But hush! Fool that I am, I do not belong to myself. That fiend holds me; I am his; I gave myself to him. He is here now—do you hear that gibbering laugh? It makes my flesh creep. He always laughs when trouble is coming. I am to receive a new wound—but where, oh, God, where? Ruin approaches, but I cannot avert it." And again he covered his face with his hands, gasping with horror, and shivering as if with cold.
               His young friend was in great distress. He took the poor, weak hand of the miserable man in his own, partly to soothe and partly to restrain him, lest by some sudden movement he should spring away.
               "This is all fancy," he said, cheerfully. "Come, be strong, shake off this terror. There is nothing here shall harm you."
               "Ah, it is always so!" was the hopeless reply. "They all call it fancy—and they say I am mad. But it is a fearful reality. See! see! even now it waits yonder in the shadow—that fiend-follower!"
               So earnest was the expression, so terrified the gaze, that the pastor involuntarily turned in the direction indicated, half expecting to see some nameless shape creeping stealthily upon them.
               "It comes, it comes!" shouted the maniac, leaping to his feet. The pastor's detaining hand could restrain him no longer; he broke loose and fled, leaving his sympathizing friend shocked and silent, listening to the despairing cries of the madman, echoing down the rocks as he retreated farther and farther in the distance.
               The pastor turned with a saddened heart to retrace his steps toward the chateau.
               He found the guests clustering in the roomy old hall, and saying their last adieus.
               St. Olef was among them. He had left his recumbent position, notwithstanding old Madame Ponson's entreaties, and there he stood, a little apart, conversing with Viola. They did not appear to heed the others, so much engaged were they in what seemed almost a confidential chat.
               A strange mixture of contradictory feelings held the pastor, as with a sort of fascination he fixed his eyes upon them. For a moment he saw and felt but the presence of these two, separated from the busy crowd, and so conspicuous in the attractive elegance of their persons.
               
               Yes, they were distinguished, they were beautiful; but it was not their distinction or their beauty which riveted the gaze of the young pastor. He passed his hand over his eyes, as if to dispel an evil vision. Perhaps some lingering remains of the scene he had just passed through with that fair girl's father, disturbed his brain. A sinister shadow fell upon Viola's face as he looked; it seemed peering up out of a dim and far-off mist, or like a picture the tints of which are half obliterated in water. The beaming smile was gone; a look of appealing helplessness dispelled the glad glance with which she answered St. Olef's honeyed words.
               "It is all imagination!" said the pastor, rousing up, vexed with his dreamy hallucination. "Over-excitement has set my brain in a whirl." He hastened to pay his adieus to Lady Orilia, and to Helena, who met him with much embarrassment. Her blushing face and sweet good-night had power to dispel all less pleasing visions, and with recovered cheerfulness, the pastor took his departure.
            
            
               CHAPTER. VII.
               PASTOR RENSHAWE.
               IT was by a wild and lonely path among the mountains that the young man pursued his homeward way.
               Yet to-night the pastor did not find it lonely, although not a living thing was visible during its entire length. A great joy kept him company; quick fancies thronged his busy brain, and life loomed up full of hope and purpose. His step was light, his heart buoyant; the world was before him, wreathed in the glowing charms of his young love.
               There was, however, little to fear at any time, in these solitudes among a simple, natural people. And now every thing was wrapped in profound repose. In the low chalet of the peasant, and the more commodious abode of the farmer or vinegrower, the inmates seemed alike to be wrapped in profound repose.
               The air was clear and invigorating, and the moon shone with unclouded splendor.
               The broad road lay clear and smooth before him, edged with the dark line of rich foliage that rose on either side. A feeling as if all these things were new to him, and the road one that he had never travelled before surprised the pastor.
               His pulse beat quick, as he thought of Helena's last look at parting. Then came gain the old tormenting doubts. Might it not be his vanity that was misleading him? The exasperating remembrance of what had brought about the young girl's expression of feeling, rose up freshly, making the hot blood tingle in his veins. A deep sense of shame filled him as he thought over every minute detail. He was angry with himself that he had not been more prompt and aggressive, and almost felt a hatred of the unfortunate Mayor. What right had the pompous official to question and insult him?
               In this most unapostolic frame of mind he chafed and fretted, until softer thoughts returned, and again he was all love and gratitude to the sweet girl who had taken such an interest in him.
               He walked leisurely onward, enjoying every thing, loving every thing. The stars seemed brighter, the air purer, the odors of the blossoming vines more delicious than ever before.
               Even as he crossed the noble bridge now spanning the deep glen of Seni, he could scarcely recall those feelings of sadness which he had always experienced in its vicinity.
               In this fearful chasm his father had, many years before, lost his life. He had been visiting a sick parishioner in a distant hamlet, and returning late at night, in a terrific storm, was overtaken by one of those sweeping avalanches which sometimes descend from the mountain heights without a moment's warning upon the unwary traveller. Horse and rider were seen no more. Well could the pastor remember that fearful night of watching, waiting for the traveller who never returned.
               But now no saddening thoughts held him as he crossed the noble arch covering such dangerous depths.
               It was quite late—past midnight; he had been loitering by the way, but now he hurried on, availing himself of shortcuts and by-ways, to shorten the distance, and soon approached his native village.
               It was a quiet, unobtrusive place, thriving and industrious; with some symptoms of that progressive intelligence so seldom met with in primitive communities, which are apt to be jealous of innovations, contented to remain as their progenitors left them.
               It was to the enthusiastic and enterprising spirit of the young pastor, that much of the modern aspect of improvement about the place was attributable. Simple and natural, he had identified himself with the people; his great ideal being through education and practical instruction to refine and elevate them above the coarse, half-brutish habits of domestic life too common among the laboring peasantry of the country, of which class most of his parish was composed.
               His father had been beloved and honored by them; but it was as their spiritual guide alone. He was a stern theologian, and held it as his highest duty to keep his people to their faith.
               But the son was of a different type. His broader and more practical sympathies moved in more varied channels. He sought to have these people wise for the present as well as for the future; to make them aware of their obligations in this world as well as to be prepared for the next. Perhaps youth and inexperience made him over-sanguine, but he was thoroughly in earnest. His whole heart and soul were with them. He forgot the rude exterior in the slowly-opening intelligence that began to appear in their broad, honest faces, as lads and lasses, friends and neighbors, parents and children, gathered in on the long winter evenings to be instructed by him.
               Yet there were difficulties with many of them. Although a people with an inborn sense of freedom, yet they were still somewhat in bondage to superstition and local prejudice, ever suspicious of change and clinging with tenacity to old customs and traditions. Whisperings occasionally went about among them, "Why this constant endeavor to make us wiser and better than our fathers? It is pride; the Evil One is near when we seek to exalt ourselves. His father used to tell us this, and he was deep in the knowledge of heavenly things."
               Still the pastor was not discouraged. A general improvement was observable. They began to think for themselves. It was all he asked, knowing that other things would surely follow.
               The many dwellings of the poor which he passed, were far in advance of the cottages or chalets of the previous century. They were then mere huts, built of unhewn logs, without windows or chimneys, smoky, filthy, hardly fit for an animal to live in.
               A few such still remained, with their rough shingle roofs held down by strong cords or heavy stones, to secure them against the gusty winds and storms of winter; but these were inhabited only by the most thriftless. Even the poorest could now boast a more pretending if not more picturesque abode.
               The village, as he now entered it, bathed in the soft moonlight, looked most inviting, and a glow of warm gratitude filled his inmost soul as he thought of the blessings of peace and industry everywhere observable in the well-cultivated vineyard, the rich meadows, the smooth broad road, and neat foot-paths on either side, in front of the many dwellings.
               But these dwellings, to an artistic eye so clumsy and ungainly, half spoiled the pleasure of the scene. In those of the old style neither beauty nor convenience were much regarded; the lower floor, open and exposed, was occupied by animals, grain, farm-implements, carts and what not; the family apartments above were reached by a long stairway without. Neither were the inside arrangements of the generally numerous household much more inviting, as the young pastor well knew. Bare floors, coarse wooden furniture, with the huge stove in the centre of the room, made up the family conveniences, with shelves and cooking utensils, milk pans, and cheese strainers intermixed: upon the walls hung the gay holiday suits, interspersed with fishing tackle, guns, whips, or anything requiring to be placed out of the reach of the younger members of the family.
               To be sure, with some, there were attempts at a little more order and grace, but still taste and imagination did not hold a very high place here. Perhaps a highly colored print or two graced the smoky wall, or may be some piece of handiwork, while in the corner hung the dark wooden clock, with its long pendulum ever swinging. Neither did the establishments of the small farmers, or prosperous vine-growers, differ much from those of the humbler class; there were more rooms, perhaps; all were not huddled together, the baby in the cradle and the press-bed of the old grandfather, in a single apartment. There was probably an ample kitchen, and an added story of sleeping apartments high up in the huge, overhanging roof. This was considered a well-to-do, well stocked farm house among the peasantry.
               But now his eye rested upon another spot much more attractive, though hardly less humble; only distinguishable by the absence of all unpleasant surroundings, and a certain air of simple refinement, peculiarly pleasing. It was his own modest home. It stood at the head of the village or hamlet, on the broad common, with the little church near by. On either side the church, and around the grave-yard back, stood the prim row of upright poplars rearing their well-clipped heads towards the unclouded sky. "Such a sweet scene," he murmured to himself. He had never been so sensibly impressed with its picturesque beauty before; but on this wonderfully eventful night every perception seemed quickened; his own happy consciousness coloring every thing with its own bright hues. He thought of his mother, waiting patiently for him, the cheerful lamp, the tidy room. "God bless her!' he murmured tenderly, as he stepped upon the porch, and knocked gently at the low old-fashioned door.
               As he expected, his mother answered the summons.
               "You are late, Rudolph," was all she said, but the tone of voice implied reproach.
               "I am, truly," replied the young man, with frank good-nature. "But excuse me this time mother; I did not intend to be so late; indeed I did not."
               "Our intentions," said the austere lady, "be they ever so well-inclined, are of little avail without the determining will, to carry them into effect."
               "True, mother, but there may be circumstances—"and here, remembering all the events of the evening, he flushed and hesitated, as the listening lady looked searchingly in his face; "circumstances that—that we cannot always control. But enough, mother; do not be angry with me to-night, at least. I will do better in future."
               "Angry, Rudolph! You mistake. You very often mistake. I am only anxious. It is late, very late, and I do not like you to fall into such habits. You should remember that I am growing old, and this sitting up alone at night, communing with my own solitary thoughts, begins to tell upon me."
               "Dear mother," said the pastor, contritely, "you are too good, too enduring! I am really ashamed of myself. I can assure you that it is constantly in my mind, when I am out in the evening, that you may be alone, waiting wearily for me; and really this thought takes away much of my enjoyment. Might I then entreat that you will give up this habit? Retire at a proper hour; there is no need to sit up for me, my too, indulgent mother, although it gives me great pleasure to have you here to greet me when I return. But I would not be so selfish as to ask it of you. If I am late, let me abide its consequences, and learn to help myself."
               He approached this subject cautiously; it had been one of some little discussion before. Madame Renshawe was one of those determined spirits who are not to be gainsaid. She decidedly waived all farther remarks, and concluded by saying:
               "If all else fail in their duty, I shall not in mine; I shall still do as I have done. You shall never know, Rudolph, while I live, what it is to be without a welcome to your own home. And go where you will, do what you will, you may still remember that there is one heart waiting, and one light burning to ever bid you back."
               Tears were in the pastor's eyes, as he reverently raised his mother's hand to his lips.
               "But you have not told me," said she, throwing off a sentimentality quite unusual with her; "You have not told me where you have been to-night."
               "I spent the evening at Lady Orilia's chateau."
               "I thought as much," observed the mother, drily. "And was the Abbe Vinett there?"
               "He was."
               "How does that agree with your promise?" she asked with severity.
               "If you remember, mother, I only promised not to seek him. He was a guest of the Lady Orilia's; I could not help that."
               "Then you must avoid the place altogether.
               "Why, mother?"
               "We must retire," she said, rising; "I can have no more altercations to-night." And with head erect, and measured tread, she left the room at once.
               This was, indeed, a new feature of the case. The pastor arose also, and went to his room. He repeated as he went his mother's words: "Then you must avoid the place altogether." Oh, no, it could not be! To be called to abandon this new happiness freshly sprung up in his heart; to forsake the Chateau—and Helena!
               To most young men such a command would have been simply absurd; but with the pastor it was different. We must remember his disposition, and the surroundings of his life. His mother he viewed with the deepest reverence. Naturally yielding and imaginative, her stronger nature had ruled and guided his in every thing. Her will was law; his outward acts were moulded to her wishes, and he never questioned her authority. Yet the inward workings of his mind were as unknown to his mother as though she had never looked upon his face. There was no intentional deception in this; both were incapable of it. But their natures were utterly dissimilar. The son never thought of telling his mother his special joys and hopes, his mental conflicts and triumphs, any more than he would have revealed these to a stranger. Why this was so, it would have been difficult for him to explain. He loved his mother, had loved her during all his early youth as something superior to himself; but he could not open his heart to her.
               In most old countries, with their long established usages, filial reverence is held among, the highest virtues, and nowhere is it more rigidly exacted than among the Swiss.
               With our pastor it was as much a law, of his life to render implicit obedience to one who had been so much to him, as to breathe his native air. She had been, indeed, a devoted mother; she had assiduously watched over his interests ever since his earliest infancy. It might not have been an altogether unselfish love; perhaps it would be difficult to find such. The affection of Madame Renshawe for her son was so tinctured by the peculiarities of her disposition, and by the fact that she had for many years fulfilled the duties of both parents to the youth, that it was more self-conscious and exacting than warm and expressive. She remembered vividly all she had been and done, forgetting that these were voluntary sacrifices. Desiring to be just, she was yet not sufficiently so to allow those within reach of her influence the privilege of freedom.
               
               Her son had been her slave; but he had been most happy in his bonds, until light and reason and independent thought began to stir in his brain; and now there was another stumbling-block—something to separate them more widely than ever. He might better have told his mother all about his new love; but he could not—not yet; and a most uncomfortable night he spent after those few brief hours of happiness.
               In the morning, however, all traces of the night's disturbance had fled. He had risen early, as was his habit, had taken a walk, and gathered his offering of a few flowers to place on the breakfast-table before his mother. Madame Renshawe had been up some time when her son returned, and as usual had prepared their simple meal with her own hands, while their old maid-servant, Thereta, attended to the outdoor matters—the cow, the chickens; and with her busy hands removed every particle of dust or disorder, every sign of a stray leaf or sprig of grass from around the well-ordered mansion.
               The breakfast-table stood in the center of the large, old-fashioned kitchen; they always ate the early meal there.
               Ever since the days of the old pastor such had been their custom. This kitchen was a quaint old apartment, roomy, bright and cheerful; every thing in it shone. The dark polished floor was smooth as marble, the utensils on the white walls glittered like burnished gold. The iron band around the immense fireplace glistened like polished steel; even the dark rafters overhead were bright with the morning sunlight. The little table, with its snow-white covering and ancient but well-preserved silver, its rich cream, its dish of fresh-laid eggs, its alpine cheese, and pure white bread, was far more tempting than many a costlier meal might be. But the greatest attraction was the dignified old lady herself, seated in her ample chair at the head of the little feast, ready to dispense with her own peculiar grace these good things.
               She had either forgotten, or resolved to forget, the unpleasant features of their last night's meeting, for she received her son with a smile as he entered and saluted her with his usual morning greeting.
               Old Thereta, seated in the doorway, nodded also a blithe good-morning to her young master.
               This wiry old woman had spent the greater part of her life in the service of the pastor's family. She had come to this humble home with the stately young German bride, many years ago. A fitful mistress she had found, but a good one. Order and regularity were the watchwords of the household; and there sat Thereta, as she had done of a summer morning this many a year—far more than a quarter of a century—upon the same wide door-step opening out on the green, resting herself while the family partook of the morning meal.
               But rest, with Thereta, only meant change. Her busy fingers now plied the knitting needles with lightning speed. Puss sat beside her, as she always sat, regular as every thing else in this well-ordered household, dozing in an easy, comfortable way, as she always did at this hour, in the company of her steady old friend.
               Puss dozed as usual, but was watchful and wary; the occasional opening of her sly orbs indicating that her attention was divided between the ball of gray yarn rolling out upon the floor, and the quivering blades of grass edging the door-step, which the morning breeze stirred gently. Puss wondered, no doubt, as she had wondered before, what all this could mean, and resolved to keep her eyes about her. And the sunshine flickered in at the doorway, over the wiry old woman and the sleek old tabby, and threw an audacious gleam across the very breakfast-table where the mistress and her son were sitting.
               The habits of this family had always been of the most unostentatious description. They aimed at no more than did the people around them. It was one of the maxims of this strong-minded woman, that a minister should live so near his people that they could come to him as to a father or brother, without being humbled by his superiority.
               "These were the sentiments of your father, Rudolph," she said, "and they are my own. I trust they may have their influence in guiding you always."
               There was a natural grace, as well as a great deal of force of character in this venerable lady, which would have been felt in the drawing-rooms of the great, as well as in the humble country parsonage. Her dignified bearing and commanding manner insured respect; but love was not always so prompt at her bidding.
               The breakfast passed quietly; each seemed disposed to silence. So quietly was it, that the clicking of Thereta's needles, made a running symphony quite audible in the apartment.
               A neighbor stopped at the open door to say good-morning to the pastor and his mother, and passing on with a kindly nod to Thereta, scarcely disturbed the spell of peace and silence.
               The young man was about withdrawing his chair from the table, when his mother remarked that "she hoped he remembered his appointments for the day."
               "Certainly," he answered, preparing to rise.
               "And I hope that you are ready to give forth words of powerful warning, Rudolph. Pierre Gaspard," she added, "was here this morning, to say that the funeral services of their little girl would take place this morning, at ten o'clock."
               "Poor people! How dreadful to have a little child like that burned to death! It seems to me that I should always dread returning home after so terrible a calamity had once occurred during my absence. I do, indeed, feel deeply for them, they, must suffer so much bitter, self-accusing regret."
               "Certainly, we cannot but feel for them; my son. But it was, Heaven's will, and it may be the means of divine refreshing to their souls. I have noticed that these people have of late rather shunned the sanctuary; I have missed them from their accustomed place. These judgments of an all-wise Providence may have been intended to bring them back to the right path, before it is too late."
               The young man evidently shuddered but he did not speak. His mother continued:
               "And the lad, Berthier, was also here, whose father was killed while guiding a party ascending the mountains. Poor man, what a dreadful loss to his large family! The hand of the Lord is laid heavily on us; but it is His will, and the opportunity must not be lost to warn and alarm perishing souls. We know not where the next avenging blow may fall."
               The pastor rose hastily; he seemed forced to speak.
               "Do not, oh, do not, mother," he said lifting his hand as though to stay her, "do not use such words!"
               "What words?" she asked, looking up at him in astonishment.
               "You speak of avenging, mother. The Spirit of power that I reverence," his voice grew steadier, "does not work by such means."
               "Rudolph you amaze me! Surely you do not doubt the providences of God?"
               "Not when I know them. But these unfortunates—I can not hold them to be the victims of a divine purpose. No, no, the little innocent lost by thoughtless neglect, and the strong man by his own reckless daring,—knowing that one mis-step would be certain destruction—are inevitable consequences of mistakes; do not ask me to believe otherwise. I must, so far as it is possible, raise my voice in vindication of the Supreme Being from such a charge."
               "Rudolph, Rudolph!" cried his mother, "You are blasphemous! The Evil One has you under his influence."
               "Oh, Madame!" cried Thereta.
               "Yes, the Evil One has beguiled him, in the shape of that Abbe Vinett. I knew it would be so. That wicked priest—that man of sin!" This is his specious reasoning."
               "You are mistaken, mother, I dare not shuffle off the responsibility of any thing I say or think on him or any one else."
               "Then you are false to your charge—to those sacred vows you have taken upon you," she answered with much solemnity.
               The young man turned and left the room, with pale face and quivering lip.
               He shut himself up in his chamber, the last words of his mother ringing painfully in his ears: "You are false to your charge." Was this possible? "God help me!" he exclaimed.
               It may be necessary, in order that the reader may understand the pastor's state of mind, to describe the influences which had moulded his pliant nature thus far.
               His early youth had been spent in dreams and fancies. Meditative and imaginative, he was left to follow his own moods, and wandering among the wild and magnificent solitudes of his native land had developed these tendencies.
               The inspiring scenery, the snowy Alps, the far-lying, peaceful valleys, the sunless glens and lonely lakes, had fostered all that was poetical and picturesque in his nature. He had resolved to be an artist. There was no one to disturb his aspirations or dampen his ardor. An only child, cared for and watched over as such, in the pleasant selfishness of youth he thought of little beside himself; and all his studies, all his day-dreams were of this. The thoughtful boy was the idol of his stirring, energetic mother, yet in sympathy the two were wide apart as possible, having but few ideas and fewer aims in common.
               While he was still a youth, his father, as has been mentioned elsewhere, lost his life by a sudden and fearful accident.
               This changed the whole aspect of life for the lad. He could no longer live for himself alone. His mother clung to him in her bereavement with a wild tenacity, centering all the love that had been hitherto divided between husband and child, in the sole object of affection left her.
               For her sake he gave up all his old boyish dreams, and prepared himself to fill his lamented father's place. His mother had a little patrimony of her own which with rigid economy enabled him to pursue his studies, and supported them until had taken orders.
               The mother and son became thus more closely united. His father's laborious life, his self-denying example, was held before the youth as something heroic; to follow in his footsteps seemed the nearest road to all that was good and god-like. In due time the young student was installed in his father's charge, and received by the people with much interest.
               These were proud and happy times for the mother; every week, every month added to her son's fame. He was a bold and enthusiastic speaker, strong and uncompromising in the doctrines of his creed.
               People were delighted: a second Farrel had arisen among them: and far and wide his fame was spread. The little village church was filled. Many came from a distance, even from Berne, the capital, the worthy Mayor of which city, to whom the reader has been introduced, often sat in the humble village church, listening approvingly to the eloquent words of the young divine.
               But in time a change came; a change unconsciously developed by the peculiar character of the pastor's mind. He had received in perfect confidence and trust all that had been taught him, and in the same spirit had earnestly disseminated it. But as he grew older he began to look deeper into the sources of his knowledge, to analyze and combine, and he was startled and alarmed by the strange conclusions to which he arrived. He sought to converse with intelligent persons on the topics agitating his mind; but this only increased his difficulties. His advisers told him not to think; to accept by faith; but this was no longer possible.
               About this time, the pastor in some of his visitations to the sick, met the Lady Orilia, and was particularly charmed with her kind, gracious manner; she invited him to her house, and in her conversation and sympathy lie found that rest his soul had been seeking so long. Broad and expansive in her views, she led him out of that circle where he seemed to have been groping, sick and weary, and tired of the world.
               Although not free from doubt, yet there was light and promise before him, he was not afraid of himself, it was not now a sin to let his thoughts rove free; he would seek out truth and right, and revel in the joys they brought. Most happy hours he spent in her society, and the many intelligent persons that gathered round her, before he was aware that the presence of Helena had added still another charm to draw him closer to the bright, happy chateau.
               To the Abbe Vinett, whom he often met at "Le Petit Chateau," he became much attached, although the two were generally opposed in sentiment and opinion. Perhaps this only added to the charm of their friendship.
               The Abbe was ready to discuss any subject in a pleasant agreeable way; and many happy hours were spent on the road or in the woods, or among the hills, in friendly argument and free interchange of thought.
               But this agreeable companionship did not so well please the pastor's friends. It began to be whispered about that the pastor was far too intimate with this Jesuit priest. His words were watched; it was said that he was becoming self-righteous; that he dwelt too much on what his people ought to DO; on works, rather than faith. They wanted the pure Word, none of these attempts at man's interpretation. They missed the fire of his discourses and shook their heads. Still they loved the young man; it was not too late for him to make things all right again—if he would but give up that abominable priest, whose subtle influence was leading him out of the good old paths.
               Some of these whispers at last reached the ears of the pastor's mother. No one could look upon these aberrations with greater severity. She loved her son with an idolizing affection, but even him she would sacrifice to her high sense of religious duty. Strong but narrow in her range of thought, whatever she did believe as a matter of course became intensified and concentrated. To her the words of pronounced authority were inviolate. It is little to be wondered that the pastor, brought up in such an atmosphere, was filled with alarm and hesitation when thoughts apparently the offspring of his own brain started up in combat with these old dogmas, so long the objects of his profound faith and reverence. No wonder that he felt wicked and ashamed of himself, and doubted whether undue questioning of sacred things had not led him into error.
               As he walked his chamber floor, those reproachful words repeated themselves at every turn: "You are false to your vows!" It seemed as if he should lose his reason.
               But presently better and braver thoughts returned:
               "Be true to yourself," whispered his heart. He ceased his restless walk, and began with calmness to prepare himself for the duties of the day.
               In the meantime quite an altercation had been going on in the usually quiet kitchen. The testy little Thereta, as she sat in the doorway listening, had found great difficulty in restraining the expression of her feelings, and had the principals in this family discussion not been so fully occupied; they would have heard the oft-repeated and scarcely repressed, "Pshaw!" "Tush!" "Nonsense!" and similar exclamations of impatience from the old woman, accompanied with a sharper click of the knitting-needles, as the conversation proceeded.
               Even puss had been astonished by these unusual sounds; she pricked up her ears and winked thoughtfully at such unwonted signs of vexation in her generally quiet companion, softly putting put her velvet paw to stay the gyrations of the ball of yarn, which was keeping vehement time to old Thereta's emotions.
               Of course Thereta's sympathies were all with her young master; there was no reasoning whether mother or son were right; he was her dear boy she had cared for since he was a baby; she loved him as if he were her own, and he had always been so good—it was a joy to her old heart to look at him.
               Her respected mistress was hardly held in such unqualified admiration. Thereta had been too often made to feel the smart of that imperious temper. But the old servant could always bear it better when exercised upon herself than upon her dear boy; and this morning, being irritated beyond measure, and seeing that pale face leave the room with so much pain stamped upon its features, she could contain herself no longer.
               So coming very quickly up to the table to remove its contents, and rattling about among the cups and plates with a nervous hand, as though they would all be dashed to pieces, she suddenly cried out, "It is a shame Madame! Yes, yes—you ought to be ashamed of yourself, Madame!"
               Thereta stopped, aghast at what she had said, yet strongly inclined to say more.
               Her mistress, still erect in her stern sense of offended right, looked at her in amazement, and repeated,
               "Ashamed. Thereta, what do you mean? This is impertinent."
               "It is not impertinent," replied the angry old woman, gaining voice. "You ought to be told, Madame. You always have your own way—you will have your own way—you will listen to none. Don't you see you are killing him?"
               "Killing whom?"
               "Killing him—your own Rudolph—with your hardness and cruelty! I see it in his face. He is heart-broken, Madame."
               "Thereta," said her mistress, "you distress me."
               Strange to say she was not angry with her old servant; she too had caught a glimpse of that pale face, and her heart misgave her. She felt the truth of Thereta's words, and a great revulsion of feeling overcame her.
               "And is it so, Thereta?" she asked, almost humbly. "Am I so hard and so cruel?"
               "You are, Madame," said Thereta, almost relenting. The subdued tone of her mistress was so unusual; and after all, it was only in moments of extreme anger that this old family servant found courage to differ from her mistress, and to speak an occasional sharp truth.
               So Thereta softened, repeating in a gentler tone:
               "You are, Madame, indeed you are—and he is so good! I cannot bear it." And then she fell to crying, which relieved her immensely.
               In the meantime Madame was walking the floor in deep distress. By-and-by she wandered out, and into the little parlor; she sat there awhile, endeavoring to find interest in her usual occupations, but in vain. She returned to Thereta.
               "My poor boy,—do you think he is ill, Thereta? What shall I do—what shall I do, my good Thereta?"
               "Go to him, Madame," said the sage Thereta.
               With quick and decided step the mother acted on this advice. Gently she tapped at her son's door.
               "May I come in, Rudolph?" she said softly, lifting the latch as she spoke.
               He was seated at the table, writing.
               "Rudolph," she said, seating herself beside him.
               He looked up with his usual pleasant smile, but his wan face seemed to confirm Thereta's warning words to the anxious mother.
               "My child," she faltered, "I fear I have been harsh with you. But it is my great anxiety in regard to you, Rudolph; you ought to know this, and accept what I say as to the intention, not the manner."
               It was a pity that the son could not now open his heart to his mother, and reveal to her all its secret disturbances. What an unspeakable relief would this have been to both! To some—perhaps to the Lady Orilia—he might have done so: but to the mother whom he loved, and who loved him so deeply, it was impossible. Their sympathies ranged too widely apart. He could only answer kindly:
               "I do remember this, mother. I try to be in all things what you desire. I know I fail often, often; but still I try again. Bear with me; it may come out all right yet. I sometimes feel a little sore, I admit, but it soon passes off," he said, looking up with a brightening countenance.
               "Truly, Rudolph, although I may at times seem severe, yet I blame myself far more than I do you. I fear that I have not been sufficiently watchful. I have allowed influences about you, in my false indulgence, that have fostered error. God forgive me! I intended right; but this comes to make me know how imperfect are our best efforts."
               Argument with a mind so fixed would have been futile. And so they parted, with mutual expressions of affection, but knowing as little of each other as ever.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               AMONG THE MOUNTAINS.
               ST. OLEF was now fairly domiciled at the Chateau. For a short time after his arrival he was quite unwell; the excitement and fatigue of travelling had inflamed the still unclosed wound in his leg, and this, united with an unwonted languor, confined him to the sofa for a fortnight or more.
               There was, however, as may be supposed, very little hardship in this imprisonment; the suffering was not very severe, and the assiduous attentions of his two fair young nurses would have been deemed by most young men an ample equivalent for much greater physical disability.
               And indeed the young gentleman was not at all disposed to grumble, although not specially inclined to be enthusiastic in his feelings of gratitude. These social pleasures, these genial and graceful aspects of life, these kindly attentions ministered by fairest hands, had their charms for him, no doubt, but be enjoyed them quite calmly.
               During the first few days of his confinement indoors he was somewhat uneasy and restless; it interfered with his plans, and he chafed under it. But the arrival of letters calmed his irritation, and after a day or two he settled down to a quiet enjoyment and apparent appreciation of the cordial kindness bestowed upon him by all the household.
               The Lady Orilia had her constant occupations, which could not be interfered with, and after a few days devoted to her guest, feeling assured that he only needed rest, she left him principally to the care of the young ladies.
               During the daily absence of Lady Orilia much of the responsibility of the household devolved upon Helena; Viola being only a visiter. Thus she was often necessarily absent from the little parlor devoted to the invalid, and the task of amusing and entertaining him fell chiefly upon Viola.
               She fulfilled the duty without reluctance, indeed it seemed a most pleasing one to her. She read, she sang, she talked, she laughed in her light-hearted innocence, without a thought save for his enjoyment. All these efforts the young gentleman received with his usual nonchalance; with a sort of passive, pleasant, courteous smile that amply compensated the young nurse; she asked no more. To see that smile of gracious approval light up the classic face of her patient, as she looked upward from the low seat near the couch where he reclined, was reward enough for far greater exertion.
               These were delightful and interesting hours for Viola. Could she have imagined greater happiness than to find herself so needful and useful to one so superior—one who was suffering affliction through his heroism in a great cause?
               For be sure these young hero-worshipers had heard the story, of St. Olef's prowess. In many a letter from the old General, Lady Orilia had read to them the oft-repeated tale of his bravery, his undaunted spirit. It seemed to be the hobby of the old man's life that his young soldier should be duly honored. And to think that this hero was really here, under their very roof!
               Viola felt it to be honor enough for a lifetime that he should be pleased with her poor efforts. Surely it might have turned a steadier head, and was a dangerous trial for a young and inexperienced heart.
               There was too much inequality in their positions. She, a mere child in knowledge of the world and of herself; he, a youth in years, but with few other of the attributes of that blissful period of credulous faith and hope; possessing a maturity of thought, a cool calculation, a perfect self-possession such as many men do not acquire in half a century. No one who knew St. Olef judged him by his years.
               The young girl felt this, and learned to reverence him, to look upon him as exalted beyond her reach. And when he began to be aware of his power, to throw a softer tone of approval into his voice, to meet that young, innocent eye, with a more than courteous smile, then the poor, weak heart fluttered and trembled, and wondered at its strange sensations.
               Oh, it was an unequal struggle! Daily St. Olef felt his growing power. No one beside himself suspected it; but he knew it by the downcast eye that hesitated to meet his own, by the delicate flush that overspread the fair face at his slightest word.
               Still Viola went on with her kindly routine, finding no pleasure but in his society, and yet leaving him sometimes, to weep off the weight of sadness that oppressed her. She did not understand her feelings. What could this uncalled-for depression mean? How foolish she must appear in his eyes!
               But she did not appear foolish to him. It was an interesting exposition of character, pleasing and refreshing. He saw how timid and sensitive she was, and by degrees drew from her the story of her dread and unhappiness at home, and how her world of happiness was centered in this other home, where she had experienced all the joys she had ever known in her life. St. Olef already knew something of the early history of this young girl, as he had heard it from old Madame Ponson. He remembered that her mind had lain dormant in its delicate casket until fostered and warmed to energy by the judicious tenderness of Lady Orilia. He found the story, however, for more interesting from the lips of the young narrator. Her gratitude to her benefactress was unbounded.
               "She has done everything for me—how good, how generous, how beautiful she is!" exclaimed Viola, with glistening eyes. "I love her—yes, I do love her better than my own mamma!"
               All this was interesting. There was a freshness, a pliancy, a singleness of purpose about Viola, that gave something of an impulse to the rather sluggish sensibilities of St. Olef, and he was quite disposed to prolong this painless convalescence.
               The sunny room looking out on the lake, the neat and even elegant arrangements of everything about him, indicative of feminine art and ingenuity, suited his fastidious tastes. It was a brief glimpse of better and brighter things than he had ever known, or perhaps would ever know again,
               A charming paradise the invalid thought it—more charming that it was inhabited by these fresh and innocent natures, that had never known the evils of that outer world with which he was familiar.
               He admired Viola, her perfect form and features, the almost angelic innocence of her expression. He admired her gleaming yellow hair, falling in abundant ringlets about her small, childlike head, and down upon her graceful shoulders. As she sat beside him of a morning, enveloped in a cloud-like robe of snowy white, and raised her blue eyes timidly to meet his own, he thought the maiden an exquisitely beautiful picture.
               And St. Olef appreciated a beautiful picture.
               But more he admired Helena. Though not to be compared with Viola in beauty, there was a life and grace about her every word and motion that formed a stronger contrast with his own luxurious, self-indulgent nature.
               Beside, though unceasingly attentive to his comfort, Helena was so perfectly indifferent to his fascinations, that it rather piqued his pride. And when he remembered his surmises on the first night of his arrival in regard to the young lady and pastor Renshawe, it gave a certain malicious impulse to his desire to win her interest. Merely to amuse himself, of course. It would be so entertaining to cut out that pale-faced parson, who looked as though his soul were hardly his own.
               With such a motive-power, he became, as health returned, absolutely brilliant. Even Lady Orilia, who from the first had been little prepossessed in his favor, began to be interested in their evening conversations, and the Abbe Vinett, in his weekly visit, bent to the universal charm.
               In the afternoons he read aloud with Helena from various authors, instinctively selecting those passages calculated to stir the depth of her feelings, or rouse the enthusiasm of her ardent nature.
               While with Viola, in the mornings, he related his adventures, described the countries he had visited, the dangers he had encountered, the wounds, the sickness, the suffering that had fallen to his lot, until her young heart would ache with pity, and tears Of sympathy filled her eyes.
               Le Petit Chateau, as before described, appeared much more like a group of originally separate buildings, than an edifice planned by one architect. The large, square hall, now lighted by a dome, had probably once been an open court. There were rooms of all sizes and shapes, and numerous passages, mostly leading out-of-doors—to the garden, the lawn, and the avenues winding down to the public road. The drawing-room, or saloon, an apartment of moderate dimensions, was the only room of any pretension in the house. It opened upon a conservatory kept with considerable care, from which Viola gathered every morning a fragrant boquet for her patient.
               The favored guest had his sleeping apartment, sitting-room, and little enclosed garden, especially devoted to his use, but he preferred spending the greater portion of his time in the family-room.
               He was well aware that he did not meet at any time all the members of the household in this room; but of course as nothing was ever said in regard to the rest of the family, he did not feel at liberty to make inquiries.
               More than once he had observed, through the high picket fence that separated his little garden from the main one, two ladies walking slowly through the paths, apparently for the sake of exercise. This was generally toward evening, and the figures were so muffled that in the uncertain twilight he could not distinguish them perfectly. One appeared very feeble, and moved with difficulty, it might be from age or illness. The other was youthful in gait and figure, but he could not be sure whether it was one of the young girls or not. He had observed that Helena was sometimes called suddenly away, and that she often absented herself in the evening without assigning any reason; then again he had repeatedly fancied that he heard her voice reading aloud, sometimes far into the night. Occasionally he caught the accent of another voice, a querulous voice, as if in complaint, when Helena's would cease. But in the morning, when he scrutinized the bright and smiling face for a solution of the mystery, he found no trace of sadness or care, to give him the slightest clue to its unravelling.
               But why all this curiosity in a matter so trivial? St. Olef himself could scarcely have answered the question. The fact of not informing a visiter concerning all the internal arrangements of a household, was certainly not of sufficient importance to incite a spirit Of investigation.
               There, are, truly, strange contradictions in human character. He who looked with such scorn on the trivialities, as he termed them, that moved the every-day currents of life, forgot his dignity so far as to find interest in the trifling secret of this quiet, unostentatious home. The truth was, although hardly aware of it himself, Helena had stirred a strange interest in the heart of the cool and indifferent St. Olef.
               Once he ventured to say to his fast friend, Madame Ponson: "Tell me something about this young lady. Where are her parents—or is she an orphan?"
               "Helena's mother is dead," answered the old lady, discreetly.
               "But her father?"
               "I believe there were some family troubles—but," said she, with an expressive shrug, "I never inquire into these sort of matters."
               "But," said St. Olef, not to be baffled, "the young lady seems to be absorbed in the care of some exacting personage—who might it be? I confess to considerable curiosity in regard to this most enviable invalid, who receives so much attention from the bright Helena."
               "Some old family relic, probably," said Madame Ponson, evidently delighted to pique St. Olef's curiosity.
               "For instance," suggested the young man, pertinaciously.
               "Her grandmother!" said the old lady maliciously, and added with an arch smile, "Only lovers, thank heaven, find such interest all in the small affairs of their lady loves!"
               Her grandmother! St. Olef now recollected that Madame Ponson had mentioned this elderly and respectable relative of Helena's on the very first night of his arrival. "So that is the mystery!" he exclaimed, mentally snapping his fingers, and feeling no wiser than before.
               He was a little vexed with himself for having unwittingly betrayed to his shrewd old friend a state of feeling quite surprising even to himself, and to which she evidently attached more meaning than it deserved. But he consoled himself with the reflection—rather derogatory to the dignity of the sex—that it was just like them to jump at conclusions, without reference to reason or common-sense.
               Two or three weeks glided calmly on. The summer was now fairly set in, and the richness and beauty of the scenery, the captivating variety of mountain, lake and valley, charmed even St. Olef's unimpressible nature.
               He felt their influence, as well as the influence of the refining home life into which he had unexpectedly been thrown.
               In the eventful existence of this young man, it had never been his lot to sojourn where the better rather than the stronger portion of his nature had a chance to develop itself. A soothing spell was upon him for a time; he was not disposed to dissipate its peaceful illusion.
               Accompanied by Viola, he now occasionally ventured out into the sunshine, on the long, grassy slope of the lawn. Sometimes they strolled as far as the lake, and as the invalid grew stronger, and the sunshine more inviting, they prolonged their pleasure by a quiet row in one of the light little boats always moored to its banks; visiting the caves formed by the overhanging rocks, or lingering in the pretty inlets, where the waters reflected brightly the dense foliage of tree and vine, and the deep blue of the sky.
               Their favorite resort was a fairy-like nook almost concealed from view by a sharp projection of the shore, where the water, forming a tiny bay, washed a smooth beach, wooded almost to its very edge.
               A spot as quiet and lonely as though hundreds of miles from any human habitation.
               One morning, as the two floated into this charming little solitude, a sound like a sigh startled them; as they listened it rose to a piercing cry, and a tall figure glided away among the trees, apparently seeking to escape up the mountains.
               "Let us see what is the matter," said St. Olef, pulling rapidly to reach the shore.
               But Viola arrested his arm. "Oh no." she cried, "take me home! Oh, quick! take me back—I cannot stay!"
               The pleading voice surprised him, while it made him feel disposed to look into the matter.
               "I merely wish," he said, giving another stroke of the oar, "I merely wish to see what is the matter—if I can help the man—he seems to be in distress."
               But the agony of the poor girl was so great he was obliged to yield, and hastened away, wondering what could be the cause of this sudden excitement. After many endeavors to find out more, he was obliged to come to the conclusion that it was but the weak timidity of a young girl, terrified at every shadow.
               About Helena he was a little puzzled. Having little else to busy his restless fancy with, the young man noted every incident of the household, as invalids are apt to do. He remembered that latterly Helena had lost much of her buoyancy. Sometimes his vanity whispered that she was jealous of his attentions to Viola. The pastor did not visit the Chateau now. He had been there but once since that first evening of St. Olef's introduction, and then there had been that shy reserve between them which the youthful diplomatist could not but own he had done all in his power to increase. He had been devoted to Helena all the evening, allowing no general conversation, and keeping her all to himself. He had quite gloried at the triumph of keeping the pale-faced parson away. Was it that had kept him away altogether? Much to his vexation there was something about Helena which he could not fathom, something he could not bend as he would. Still, he did not despair.
               The Abbe spent two evenings a week at the Chateau. He and St. Olef appeared mutually attracted to each other's society, sometimes spending hours in close conversation in the apartments of the latter.
               The Mayor of Berne was also a regular visiter.
               "We miss our pastor," he would say on these evenings, looking slyly at Helena, much to her chagrin. St. Olef would notice the annoyance, but he could not altogether understand the cause of it. Perhaps she did not wish him to suppose that the pastor was particularly her friend, or had that sensitive dislike peculiar to fine natures, of having her private affairs paraded unduly before the notice of a stranger; and this pompous Mayor was forever blundering. So thought St. Olef, smiling to himself in his self-complacent fashion, and wondering so few men should be possessed of the finesse which he regarded as the crowning glory of a man.
               There was certainly no lack of entertainment at the Chateau. Either some pleasant excursion beguiled the morning hours, or agreeable visiters made the time pass lightly over.
               Among the most persistent of these, was the antiquated, but intelligent and vivacious Madame Ponson. Kind old lady! St. Olef seemed to her in some sort her special charge.
               With a generous and simple nature, the ability to confer a favor much endears the object of that favor. Had she not been so much to this dear youth on the first evening of his arrival? Had she not amused him—kept him from excitement—told him about all these people—about everything? And he was so handsome, and had so attentively listened to her, a prattling old woman—had listened to her, with that courteous manner he possessed. It had quite won her heart. And then she had learned he was so much alone—had no mother or sister to love him! Such tender pity seized her, and she was so anxious for him, that every morning saw her riding over in her little pony phaeton at the very risk of breaking her dear old neck down the zigzag road just to look in a moment and see how matters were going with her tall and handsome pet. And then, more anxious still, she would discover a decided hectic flush a peculiar brilliancy of the eye.
               Ah, it was going to be as she had all along feared—as it had been with her famous cousin, the Marshal, and her nephew the General! Poor fellow! She asked if the Lady Orilia could be always with him in this crisis—if not, she would come herself—these young people have so little judgment.
               But when the good lady found that in the very face of all these fears the invalid did improve, and was soon, to all appearance ance, in fine health and spirits, she began to have other anxieties. He must, surely, fall in love, and which of the young ladies should it be? It was an indisputable fact that he could not have both—which should be the elect?
               Viola was certainly the handsomest. Indeed she had met her and St. Olef in one of their daily strolls, and could hardly keep from exclaiming aloud, they were such a handsome couple. He so tall and soldierly, she like some lovely clinging flower, needing life strong support. But then every feeling of her sensitive old heart spoke for Helena. Helena was so genial, and so attentive. Viola was always kind and respectful when they met, but indifferent, as the young usually are to the old. Helena had wound herself into her dearest affections by her bright and, loving ways, had made the dear old lady feel there was yet some connection between herself and the freshness of happy youth. Oh, yes, it must be Helena!
               And then, it might be fancy, but Helena of late did not seem always so gay. Could it be that her young heart was touched by this elegant stranger, this soldierly hero? It was more than possible.
               Madame Ponson remembered to have heard occasional reports of an attachment between Helena and the pastor, but that had evidently, all died out, and she was so glad—it would be such a miserable match for her sweet girl. Besides, she had heard so many ill accounts of him lately—he had become an Infidel or an Atheist, she believed—something very dreadful, at any rate.
               The old lady eased her kindly heart by detailing to Helena confidentially the rumors she had heard touching some dreadful things the pastor had uttered at a recent funeral. Something fearfully heterodox—she hardly knew what—about taking this work of life and death out of the hand of the Almighty; at any rate it had caused a terrible excitement—the people were all in arms—the Mayor of Berne had moved in the matter—there was to be a council called, and she did not know all else. But she was very glad that Helena was out of lie scrape.
               And now that her attention was called to Helena, she watched her more closely, and really perceived there was change—she was every day more subdued. And thus the kind old lady began to have an added charge. What could she do—how could she bring matters right?
               She began to feel provoked with Viola for her beauty, and even to be a little angry with her hero—it was just like men, to be always attracted by mere outside show!
               Helena had, truly, a weight upon her spirit, but the good Madame Ponson had hardly guessed its source,
               Ever since that unfortunate evening—for so the young girl considered it—when her indignation had been roused by the cool insults heaped upon the pastor by the detestable Mayor of Berne, causing her to expose some of those feelings till then scarcely suspected by herself, she had suffered the deepest 
                     mortication
                     mortification
                  .
               Sometimes she would imagine the pastor must despise her—or, worse than all, pity her, and with the most ingenious self-torture she dwelt upon the thought that since that evening he had avoided her. It would certainly have seemed natural, after that eventful night, that he should have sought an explanation. But night after night he failed to appear. Even his usual Wednesday evening visits were forgotten. When he finally made his appearance on that last Saturday evening, he had seemed so embarrassed, had so entirely avoided her, 
                     and and
                     and
                   went away so early. Oh, it was evident he wished to make her understand how indifferent she was to him!
               Burning tears would flow, and the glow of mortification make her blood tingle as she thought of these things. Another circumstance also had occurred, known only to herself and the Lady Orilia, which completed the painful estrangement.
               On a morning in the early part of the week, Helena was told that a lady wished to see her. The visiter had asked to see the Lady Orilia, but on being informed by the maid that she was from home, had requested an interview with Miss Helena. She was evidently a stranger, but refused to make known her name to the attendant.
               Entering the drawing-room, Helena saw before her a lady of tall, commanding appearance, habited in the deep widow's weeds of the past century. There was something severe and uncompromising in her aspect, as though she had come thither expecting to be displeased, and displeased she would be. Helena politely requested the visiter to be seated, but the proffered chair was haughtily declined, and the stranger without farther preamble announced herself as the mother of pastor Renshawe.
               The color rushed to Helena's face: it seemed as though she must fall to the ground. Every thing moved; the very floor beneath her feet swayed dizzily to her bewildered eyes. But as Madame Renshawe proceeded to unfold the object of her visit, her words had a wonderfully steadying effect on the young listener, who lifted her head proudly, and waited in silence for farther communications.
               Madame Renshawe stated briefly, that her present visit to Neuchatel was the first she had made in many years; she had wished to see the Lady Orilia, but as she was unused to travelling, and might never be able to repeat her visit, she would leave the few words she had to say with the young lady.
               Her son, the pastor of Aesch, she had understood, was a frequent visiter at this house; it was her desire, her emphatic desire, that these visits should cease.
               Helena was so completely confounded, that she only looked vacantly into the stern visiter's face, without uttering a single syllable.
               As the lady turned to leave, fancying, perhaps, that she had been rather abrupt, she as abruptly apologized; saying that it was her anxiety for her son that prompted her.
               "There are certain associations he has formed that I consider decidedly injurious to his welfare; and it is my duty, as his mother, and the widow of his honored father, to act decidedly in the matter."
               With a dignified inclination of the head, she left the room, and passed down the avenue to where her quaint little vehicle waited at the gate. Her step was as stately, her mien as commanding, as though she were queen of the realm.
               Madame Renshawe had always ruled, and would always rule; her desires were queenly, though her domain was small.
               Poor Helena! when she realized the whole scene, and all that had been said, a storm of rage and mortification seized her. How thankful she was that Viola and St. Olef knew nothing of this visitation! She dreaded the cold, satirical smile of the latter.
               What were the evil associations to which the pastor's mother alluded? Did she include Helena among them? Oh, how bitterly the young girl wept, then dried her tears for very anger, and sought the company of Viola arid St. Olef, with whom she laughed and jested gayly for an hour, then left them suddenly, and retired to weep again in solitude.
               The Lady Orilia's calmer judgment weighed the whole matter more justly, and partially succeeded in removing the painful impression which Helena had received. She saw that the stern old lady had far other fears than of matters connected with the affections. It was the discovery of her son's peculiar opinions on religious topics, that had alarmed her. It was the Abbe Vinett, whom the pastor so frequently met at the Chateau, that "plausible Jesuit," from whose grasp she was determined to rescue her child, as a brand plucked from the burning.
               The pastor's mother was by no means the only one who took exception to the suave Abbe, as the Lady Orilia had good reason to know. Even the illustrious Mayor of Berne had courteously suggested that so dangerous a person should be excluded from the society of the house.
               Lady Orilia inquired of the good Mayor his reasons for advising such a breach of hospitality.
               
               "Ah, well, I would not specify! On general grounds, perhaps. His opinions are, no doubt, decidedly obnoxious."
               "What are his opinions, Monsieur Mayor? Does he intrude them?"
               "Well, really, I do not know," replied the Mayor, somewhat confused. "I—I only suppose—I never heard them."
               "Then we will let them rest," said the lady, in her quiet way. "I never quarrel with people about their opinions. The Abbe Vinett is a gentleman in bearing, and a man of intelligence; as such I respect him."
               But both Helena and the Lady Orilia felt that they owed it to their self-respect to exclude the pastor from the Chateau.
               This was a great trial, not only to Helena, but to Lady Orilia also, for she loved the young pastor as though he were her own son or brother. All the greater was this trial because she could not enter into any explanations; she could not detail to the pastor his mother's part in the affair, lest it should bring about a painful estrangement between them. Madame Renshawe had requested as a matter of honor that her visit should not be mentioned to her son; and so he must be permitted to think his friend whimsical and unjust, and endure the pangs of wounded pride and anger without the alleviation of knowing that it was not of her own will she had banished him.
               It was indeed a trial, but it must be done; and so the bright little Swiss maid who attended the door was duly instructed that when pastor Renshawe called she was to say that the ladies could not see him. The little Swiss maid opened her eyes very wide, but of course said nothing.
               When the pastor came she dutifully repeated the message of her mistress, and was comforted to find that he was quite as much astonished as herself.
               He thought there must be some mistake; he was usually received with so much cordiality. Were the ladies engaged?
               She could not tell.
               He called again, and yet again, and at last turned away in despair.
               But time passes on; even through the leaden atmosphere of sorrow, and of hours made heavy with suffering, it passes on. St. Olef was now entirely recovered, and full of unwonted life and animation. In the gaieties of the Chateau, Helena also entered with as much apparent spirit as if she had no other feeling save to enjoy the present moment.
               There were rides on horseback, and boating, and delightful drives to every point of interest and beauty in the neighborhood, and, in an innocent way, St. Olef was lionized to his heart's content.
               When all the famous places in the immediate vicinity of the Chateau had been explored, it was proposed to ascend the Chaumont, and have a view of the distant Alps, from Titlis to Mont Blanc.
               The arrangements for this expedition were made with great hilarity. It was supposed that the excursion would occupy the greater part of the day. The party were to set out early, in order that when the mists of morning were lifted from the mountains, they might enjoy the glorious sight. They were to ride part of the way up the mountain, and then, leaving the vehicle, continue the ascent on foot.
               St. Olef and the young 
                     giris
                     girls
                   set forth on their rather adventurous journey in high spirits. Every thing went well—a rare occurrence when the anticipations are high. The mists that encircled the cloud-capped peaks cleared away, and the morning sun shone athwart those everlasting snows, with a brilliance that dazzled the eye. Grandly the scene opened far and near, as of a scroll unrolling from a mighty hand: above, around, below, the same suggestions of limitless power.
               How puny feels a man in witnessing these vast and enduring arrangements of nature; and yet how exalted. Awed, 
                     yet yet
                     yet
                   strengthened, we recognize a kinship with the Creative Spirit that discovers, adapts and beautifies all things. We creep toward this Infinitude that confounds us, yet we feel larger in our humility.
               Silence fell upon the group of young people as they gazed upon the scene.
               St. Olef, usually so indifferent, was sensibly impressed; and Viola, always rather childlike in her expressions of wonderment, was for the time awed to stillness, while Helena, humbled and subdued, trembled with a sense of utter insignificance. What were all her little miserable repinings, her trifling every-day pursuits, her petty woes and perplexities, in the presence of this silent sublimity?
               After visiting the different points of view, and partaking of a lunch spread upon the dry grass, in a sheltered spot, they began to think of returning.
               The descending pathway swept around the very edge of a precipice. The grass, here exposed to the unsheltered rays of the burning sun, was dry and slippery. Repeatedly the girls warned St. Olef from walking carelessly upon the edge,—as at the base of this descent yawned a fearful chasm, and some had lost their lives by heedlessly stepping too near the fatal brink.
               But he only laughed at their fears, rather inviting their terrors by his daring.
               As they neared the end of this dangerous point in their journey, a puff of air carried Viola's light handkerchief to the very edge of the slope, then another breeze caught and carried it a little lower. Both the young girls exclaimed, as they saw St. Olef gallantly endeavor to recover it,
               "Oh, don't, don't! Let it go!"
               But with that strange persistence that urges us on, in the very face of peril, to do the thing we have attempted, he still pursued the floating gossamer,—when, oh, horror! he had gone too far. Even he himself felt it, Still, he cried out exultingly, as with the bauble in his grasp he endeavored to regain his footing. But, with all his self possession he saw no help—not even a shrub, a stone, to check the quick descent to destruction.
               Oh, God! was that fortunate fate which had always attended him, now about to depart? He was sliding as though on glass, with that deep abyss below.
               Helena stood transfixed with terror, while Viola rent the air with her screams, as down, down, still he went—and then, with one long gasp, the poor girl fell senseless to the ground.
               In such moments of peril the mind acts with lightning rapidity. In the most infinitesimal portion of time plans may be formed that would require much space to put into words. St Olef saw his only chance: he kept his body erect, and as he neared the edge of the abyss, braced his heel, and with a vaulting bound actually succeeded in clearing the distance across the chasm, here fortunately at its narrowest opening.
               After a few moments of rest he was all right again, and looked about to see how he could attain the opposite side once more. Following a rocky pathway that wound narrowly along, edging the abyss, he regained the embankment a little below where he had taken his dizzy leap, and clambering up the side, here broken and rugged, stood again by the side of his terrified companions.
               There lay poor Viola, stretched upon the earth, pale and lifeless. The young man sat down beside her, and raised the beautiful head, while Helena endeavored by every endearing epithet to recall her to life. But still she lay motionless, the blanched face, in its framework of gold tinted hair, looking like chiseled marble of marvelous perfection.
               Helena was in despair; she threw back the light bonnet, loosened the dress, and chafed the cold hands; still no movement. Had they but some water!
               Looking around with imploring eyes, she spied a little chalet below in the sweep of the valley. She would go there and get some water—leaving St. Olef to support the fainting girl. Without an instant's delay she set out.
               Looking, down from the slope the little hut appeared very near, but it proved to be at least half a mile off.
               Helena hastened on, although her limbs could scarcely support her. She was herself half fainting. The recent fright, added to the fear that Viola was really dead, had affected her nerves; she trembled and tottered as she sped along the rugged pathway. Only her natural determination of spirit kept her from giving way entirely before she reached her destination.
               In the meantime Viola had revived.
               When she opened her eyes and saw who was bending over her, she seemed for a few moments utterly bewildered, and did not recognize St. Olef.
               "You are here," she cried, "but where, oh, where is he?"
               She shuddered fearfully. "I saw him, saw him going! Oh, tell me, where is he?"
               St. Olef was really affected by her distress; he assured her with the most affectionate tenderness that he was safe. And when he added with his soft, persuasive voice, the magnetism of which was almost irresistible:
               "Do you think so much of me, sweet Viola,—were you really so sorry when I was in danger?" then Viola knew the liquid tones to which she had so often listened with a beating heart. All the barriers of reserve gave way in that moment; she clung to him like an eager, passionate child, declaring her love, her endless, undying love. He was the dearest upon earth—all else was nothing beside him. Ah, if he had met that terrible fate, she would have surely died too!
               All this time her companion had not uttered one word of love; but Viola heeded it not.
               He was pleased and flattered. Who could have helped being moved by such intense expressions of interest from lips so purely beautiful. He said truly, that it made him happy to be the object of such regard, of which he felt himself to be undeserving.
               "I am but a poor soldier of fortune, Viola!"
               But what did Viola care? All she knew was that she loved him; that he was snatched from what had seemed the waiting jaws of death, and was sitting, warm and living, beside her. She never had loved any other,—she never would love any save him.
               After much difficulty Helena succeeded in reaching the chalet.
               There was silence, deep and unbroken, about the place. Impatiently she pushed open the half-closed door, and to her astonishment saw pastor Renshawe sitting at the bedside of an apparently dying woman.
               Near the hearth sat an aged man, his trembling hands extended over the scanty embers. He muttered something as he looked up and saw the stranger, but returned to his stooping posture, apparently forgetting that he had been disturbed.
               The pastor came forward instantly. Helena was so agitated that she could scarcely speak, and the pastor little less so at her sudden appearance and wan countenance. He recovered himself, however, and the tones of his voice reassured her, as he inquired what was the matter—what could he do for her.
               "You look pale, Helena," he said, "sit down a moment," and he handed her a chair.
               But she hastily declined. Viola was very ill; all Helena wanted was water.
               "May I have this?" she asked, eagerly reaching to a vessel that stood upon the table.
               "Certainly, my dear," said the sick woman, at once comprehending the nature of the haste. "Take it, and leave it on the hill. I will send for it."
               The pastor followed to the door.
               "Can I help you, Helena? May I carry it for you?"
               "Yes,—oh, no!" she said quickly, not knowing what she uttered. "I would rather you should not. Oh, please do not ask me!"
               "Who is with Viola?" he asked.
               "Monsieur St. Olef."
               The pastor turned away, and the momentary glimpse Helena caught of his face, as she looked up, half surprised at his sudden movement, revealed so strange an expression of anguish, that it haunted her as she wearily ascended the mountain path. Long seemed the way; it appeared as though she would never reach the top The vessel of water weighed heavier and heavier and heavier. She had refused the helping hand proffered to assist her—what if Viola should be dead?
               Viola, however, was quite recovered, and the party, somewhat subdued and weary, quietly descended the slope, and at once hastened homeward. A certain gloom seemed to have settled on the blithe young spirits who had set out so gaily in the morning. Revulsion of feeling, after her wild excitement, caused Viola to be silent; Helena, was oppressed with a terrible sadness; and even St. Olef, usually so equable, had his unpleasant thoughts.
               He was vexed; now that the momentary thrill of emotion was over, he questioned what he had been doing. Had he committed himself? He had always prided himself on his self-possession—and what a fool he had been this morning! Viola would, of course, tell Helena all about what had occurred; he must at least prevent that.
               In these varied moods, excited, exhausted, dissatisfied, the party returned to the Chateau.
               There a surprise awaited them. A message had arrived during the day from Viola's mother. That lady had returned from her travels, and required the attendance of her daughter immediately. A carriage was waiting to convey her home.
               The poor girl was really too much exhausted to undertake even so short a journey, but there was no help for it; the command was unqualified; and with many tears, and many hopes to soon see them all again, she departed.
               Letters from Italy had also arrived during the day, both for the Lady Orilia and her guest.
               These had come by the hands of a former valet or body-servant of St. Olef's; a personage of sufficient importance to warrant introducing him to the reader in a new chapter.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               GUISEPPE BALIZAE.
               GUISEPPE BALIZAE, the young man mentioned in the last chapter, as bearer of letters and despatches to the Chateau, had been taken suddenly and severely ill at the time of St. Olef's departure for Switzerland, and the latter was reluctantly obliged to relinquish the services of his favorite servant; another man had been detailed to fill the vacancy: a mere clown, capable only of taking care of horses and performing the most menial duties.
               Balizae had been a servant of very different stamp—a real jewel in his way, capable and ready, just such an active, quick, and pleasant fellow as St. Olef's luxurious habits would lead him to appreciate most keenly.
               The Lady Orilia had at first felt quite unwilling to receive this additional member into her already large household: the other servant kept away from the house, assisted in the stables and garden, but this man was of another stamp; like his master he enjoyed the luxuries of domestic comfort, and the delicate surroundings of a household life, and speedily made a niche for himself in the hospitable Chateau. The Lady Orilia began to like him, and to like to have him about, he made himself so useful in various ways, keeping out of sight when he was not needed, and always at hand when he was. He took full charge of St. Olef, his clothes, his room, even the little private garden; keeping every thing so neat, falling so readily into their habits, that he won his way into favor with every one. He found means to be useful to Helena, also—doing many little errands into town—always remembering every charge, and bringing back just what she wanted at the right moment.
               Even the hot-tempered cook was propitiated by his ready and pleasant habit. Her vegetables were gathered, her fruits picked her kindlings always ready,—she began to wonder how they had ever lived without him; and the bright and tidy Ursula, the maid of all work, began to have her own little dream of happiness. The "den," as she contemptuously designated the kitchen, being now occasionally illuminated by those black Italian eyes, grew in favor in her own—and things were getting along swimmingly, altogether, she thought.
               Guiseppe was Italian in all his looks; good features, complexion swarthy, eyes piercing,—seeming more intense in their blackness from being placed so near together—person small but compact. Altogether he made a not unpleasing impression when he gracefully and reverently saluted those whom he came before. It was only when the smile passed away, and unawares you caught the glitter of those intense eyes fixed upon you, that the feeling of pleasure gave way, unconsciously, to a painful sensation, felt for an instant, scarce noted, and vanishing completely as with the quickness of thought some little offering of service was tendered.
               The evening on which Viola was so hastily summoned away, a sense of loneliness was felt by all who gathered in the drawing-room, so recently made bright by her presence. Worn out by the excitement of the day, the excursionists were glad to retire at an early hour.
               Before doing so they related to the Lady Orilia all about the exciting scene upon the mountains. All, did I say? Nay, with all the seeming frankness of the story, each carefully guarded within a secret portion of what had occurred that day.
               St. Olef laughed when Helena pictured the danger to which he had been exposed. But the Lady Orilia assured him seriously that there was danger, great danger, from careless stepping on the slippery, dry grass upon these sun-burned and wind-swept eminences. It was but a short time previous that a young Englishman had lost his life under the same circumstances, and so little had he apprehended danger, that when he commenced the fatal slide he actually set up a shout of derision, and waved his hand to the party above, whose more cautious approach made them the distant witnesses of his horrible death.
               Still the next morning Helena continued to miss her companion, and could talk of little else.
               "It is so lonely," she cried, "so lonely without Viola!"
               And when they sat down to their midday lunch, usually the gayest gathering of the household, she felt almost as though a good fit of weeping would relieve her.
               "And yet you are not at all alike;" said St. Olef, in answer to her regretful words. "Your tastes and habits I should judge; to be entirely dissimilar."
               "True;" said Helena, thoughtfully; "I suppose they are. But she is such a sweet, good girl, and listens so lovingly to what one says, that it makes one feel better, somehow, to themselves. Yes, she is all goodness and love—a dear little angel!" cried the enthusiastic girl, warming with the remembrance of her absent friend.
               "You are right," said St. Olef, in his dry, supercilious way; "she has certainly the most gracefully appreciative manner I ever met with in any one; there seems to be an intuitive quickness that takes your meaning almost before it is known to yourself. But whether she is really a brilliant as well as a sympathetic intellect, I am not so sure. The young lady is unusually reticent on those subjects upon which I have endeavored to lead her into discussion."
               "That is because she is so timid," said Helena, promptly. "She is afraid of you, no, not exactly that—but there is a something—well, Monsieur St. Olef," she added, roused to her usual spirit, "I may as well be frank with you. You will excuse me, please do—but you have such a sar—sar—"
               "Sardonic," suggested St. Olef.
               "Oh, no, no, not that! Sarcastic, I mean. Such a sarcastic way, that one so sensitive as Viola cannot speak out with entire freedom before you. I am more hardy, you know, not so finely constituted. I do not care what you think, and so I speak at random the uppermost thought of the moment," said Helena, laughing gayly.
               "And so you do not care what I think," he said, catching at these chance words, and adding, with a slight tone of wounded feeling, "I am so bad, it seems, that my regard is of little account."
               He loved to draw her out. The intellectual forces of his own mind were stimulated by coming in contact with hers. It took him out Of his habitual mood of indifference and apathy.
               He could not have chosen a better way to create an interest in Helena's generous heart, because, fearing she had been too abrupt in her frankness, she was anxious to extract the sting.
               "Now, Monsieur St. Olef," she said, in a careless yet more than usually conciliating way—for he generally rather provoked her by a certain sneering habit—"you are certainly very ingenious in making out a case. I did not mean any such thing;" and noting a real touch of sadness in his countenance, she added, "Indeed, I prize your regard very much; you do not know how much you have grown in our esteem—that is, I mean, in that of the Lady Orilia and my own, since you have been with us."
               "No, I am afraid I never shall," he replied, with a smile. "But that is neither here nor there, my dear Mademoiselle Helena," dropping his light, careless tone; "but there is one thing I do know—that is, if I had met with two such estimable women as yourself and Lady Orilia earlier in life, I might have been a very different person."
               He still seemed deeply in earnest, as he continued, "In my short career, truly, I have known but little of these tender female influences. My life has been spent mostly among men, and they not always of the very best sort."
               It was seldom St. Olef alluded to himself but at this moment he seemed really softened.
               "Yes, the bad in me has ever been the most assiduously cultivated, while the good has lain dormant, or been utterly crushed if it ever came to light. But you will still think of me kindly, will you not? No matter what comes, do not regard me as altogether what I may seem—do not blame me totally; think of the circumstances as well as the man."
               "You are very kind—I am much obliged for your confidence in me;" Helena answered in some confusion. She felt that the conversation was becoming too personal, and rising from the table where they had been lingering for the last half hour, she said; smiling:
               "Come, Monsieur St. Olef, you are too gloomy. You feel Viola's absence, although you will not admit it, just as much as I do. Let us take a look outside!" and she threw open the ample, old fashioned door, remarking as she did so, that in old times they must have calculated on portly personages passing out—and keeping out, too, if they wanted a glimpse of the outside world.
               "See those narrow, high windows," she said playfully—"what are they for, but to give a little glimmer of light, or may be air? But these splendid doors—just look out! Is'nt it beautiful! Here we've been shut up in this dusky room on such a lovely day! Now look out at those grand old trees shaking themselves in the sunlight. How softly green the lawn is, how quiet the waters of the lake, reflecting the dark shadows of the hills! It is a world of beauty in itself. Let us go out."
               "No," said St. Olef, "I would rather sit here, and hear your voice. It is music to me, even though it tells me of my faults. Let us remain within. Talk to me—tell me some more of them. I will strive to improve!"
               To Helena's inexpressible relief, horses' feet were now heard cantering towards the little gate at the side of the lawn, and presently the Abbe appeared. He had come on an entirely new errand to day, and that was, to invite St. Olef to ride back with him.
               "Do you know, Monsieur," he said, intending to mislead Helena, that my "friend and patron, the young Count Gruyere has heard of your visit to the Chateau, and insists that you also visit him at his castle. He wants to hear all about Italy. So come; you may have to stay a day or two, but we will try to make the gloomy old place endurable as possible."
               St. Olef was not over much pleased at the interruption. He had been really interested—a thing unusual with him—and there were some shadows of better things faintly struggling to take shape in his mind. He had for the moment forgotten the impulse that first led him to prolong the conversation with Helena. Of one thing he felt certain—Viola had revealed nothing concerning that by-play which had passed between the two. It had been an unfortunate circumstance, at least premature; it was a satisfaction to know that as yet it was a secret between Viola and himself.
               But the main point upon which he was solicitous of farther enlightenment, was whether Helena was interested in the pastor. Upon this subject lie was yet in the dark, and consequently dissatisfied.
               He had, however, been expecting this summons a long time, and had, hitherto, felt a little impatient at its delay. Hastening therefore his preparations for departure, he concealed beneath a gay and affable smile any feeling save that of pleasant expectation and excitement.
               The two rode gallantly away, waving adieus to Helena, as she stood in the porch of the Chateau.
               They took the direction to Neuchatel, raising quite a commotion as they passed through the quiet streets of the town.
               The Abbe was well known, but who was that splendid stranger?
               St. Olef certainly presented a fine appearance, as he rode slowly along on his proud charger; and many flattering comments were bestowed upon him, especially by the younger portion of the community.
               "Who can he be, I wonder? Is he an adopted brother of Lady Orilia's?" said one young girl to another. "I hear he is a great soldier. Our maid, Lucette, met his valet at her brother's house, last night, and he was telling her all about his master. He said he was the greatest hero! You know he has been sick, and likely to lose his leg. Only think of it! I hear he bore his sufferings bravely—and the two young ladies at the Chateau are desperately in love with him. And—and—ever so much more I heard. But I wonder if this can really be he?"
               "Perhaps," said her companion, "it is the young Count Gruyere, who has just returned from his travels. They say he has been visiting Rome, and some of the royal courts, and that he has become immensely wealthy; that he is having the old family equipages remodeled and regilt, and that the castle is to be all refurnished with great splendor, for he is to be married to a great lady. So we in Neuchatel are to see once more some of the old magnificence of its princes. And indeed," said the girl, pausing to take breath, "I've heard so much that I cannot remember it all. It's the common talk of the town—the servants up yonder are so boastful!"
               "No; I am certain that it is not the Count," said the first speaker, decidedly, paying little heed to her companion's remarks, as she examined more circumspectly the approaching rider. The Gruyeres are all dark and small, and this is a tall, fair gentleman. Don't you remember old Count Gruyere—and the Countess? They were such old people when I was a very little girl. I can only just remember them, riding through the town in their shabby old carriage, with their outriders in faded yellow livery and little jockey caps. But the old Count and Countess looked as proud as though they owned us all. Indeed, I've heard my grandmother say that the lady regarded most of the townsfolk as owing her allegiance."
               "Dear me! They had better talk! I don't wonder they were so dark-looking and ugly!" returned the other, with proper spirit. "We of Neuchatel know something better than that, any way."
               St. Olef rode on, utterly unconscious of the furor he was creating. He was too much occupied with his own projects to heed what took place on the route. Matters of much importance were being revolved in his mind, and the momentous work upon which he was about entering was being anxiously examined in its various points. His was a deep, far-reaching, calculating mind; and quite abstracted from all around him, he reviewed the busy plans that were opening in his brain.
               Arrived at the castle, they were met in the great hall by the Count himself. He received St. Olef with unusual cordiality, inquired about his health, remarked that he had been very uneasy about him, and was, altogether, so much more full of life and general interest than his wont, that St. Olef looked at him surprised. The severe austerity and formality of manner which had characterized their first meeting, had given place to a frank and easy courtesy, more natural in one of his age. It was evident that some secret elation moved him to more than ordinary warmth of demeanor.
               After they had partaken of some refreshment, the guests again mounted their horses, and accompanied by the Count, rode off in an opposite direction to that by which they had approached the castle.
               It was not long before, in his overflowing happiness, the Count revealed the cause of his joy to his friend.
               "I will introduce you to-night, Monsieur St Olef," he said, while his dark face glowed in the ruddy twilight, "to my betrothed—one of the loveliest creatures in the universe. Yes," he continued, exultingly, looking directly into his companion's face, "there are few so fortunate as I am!"
               Of course St. Olef bowed, and smiled acquiescence, and the Count was too happily occupied to analyze the nature of that smile, whether derisive or congratulatory. He continued in his exultant strain:
               "This matter has been some time in progress, but is now brought to a happy close. And you will meet many friends, also, Monsieur, at the chateau of her father; men who are ready to risk their lives in our great enterprise. But we must ride hard—the Abbey is distant, and it is getting late."
               Putting spurs to his horse, he hastened on, the others following at a brisk gallop, exhilarated by the bracing mountain air, and the soft fragrance of the summer evening.
               A fine starlight illuminated the rough road, whose inequalities allowed little further chance for conversation. Sometimes it dwindled to a mere narrow pathway skirting the woods, along which the travellers were obliged to pass in single file, sometimes winding among the shadows of overhanging trees, so that, not being familiar with the lonely route, they were compelled to fix their attention wholly on the immediate difficulties of their journey.
               For a few miles their way lay over the mountain-level, but gradually, as they began to descend, it grew steep and precipitous; here, trusting to the instincts of their sure-footed horses, the travellers left them mostly to their own guidance, and were finally happy to leave their mountain discomfort for a comparatively easy road, which winding over the height, led to a close wood, entering which they plunged, as it seemed, into impenetrable darkness. There was a chill and gloom in the atmosphere, that affected even St. Olef's equanimity. But, a short distance, and lights were seen twinkling through the trees, and presently the party came upon an open area, where the sky could be seen, quiet and starlit, shining down on this bit of table-land, beneath which in a deep valley, they could see the glimmering lights of the Abbey, a broad, low mass of buildings, rising, impressive and solitary, in this silent seclusion of nature.
               As the travellers rode into the wide, open space in front of the edifice, they found that the seclusion was only apparent. Many guests had preceded them, and a train of carriages was in waiting.
               Dismounting, and giving their horses to the attendants, they stepped under the low gothic porch, and entered the broad, arched doorway, so low, that St. Olef was almost obliged to stoop. The doorway opened on a vast hall, with dark beams supporting a vaulted roof; the hall was like an immense and gloomy cavern; but the lights from the adjoining saloon, and the hum of many voices, relieved the first unpleasant impression.
               Passing through this chilly hall, and over its stone-paved floor, they were conducted to a small side-room, where, with some slight change of toilet, they prepared to meet the ladies.
               After 
                     this this
                     this
                   they were ushered into the saloon, in which a large assemblage was congregated.
               This saloon, like all the other apartments, was exceedingly low, the heavy carved beams of its dark ceiling being scarcely above the heads of some of the taller-guests. It was of great length, and at its upper end, a great arched window covered nearly the entire space, and opened into a spacious conservatory. The saloon was richly decorated, in its quaint way; rich carvings and mouldings ornamented the dark wainscoting of the walls, along which at frequent intervals, wax candles, in silver sconces, served to light the scene. Yet, notwithstanding the abundance of these, the vastness of the apartment, and the gloomy coloring of everything about it, prevented more than a partial illumination, and those at the head of the room could not be distinguished by those who entered. A more brilliant light, however, was shed around the upper end, where the ladies seemed to be mostly congregated.
               Toward this the Count proceeded, almost impatiently, to pay his respects to the hostess and her lovely daughter.
               These two ladies, magnificently dressed, were standing upon a piece of rich carpeting, in front of the large window.
               Escorted by an attendant, the Count and his party approached. As St. Olef followed his friend through the crowd, he had not raised his eyes. He was conscious of approaching a commanding presence, which stood in a dreamy, soft haze of light, with the scent of flowers around, and something, timid and ethereal drooping beside it.
               "Allow me to present you," said the Count to Madame L——., and my bride affianced."
               St. Olef raised his eyes, and met those of Viola!
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               THE CONSPIRATORS.
               ST. OLEF stepped back after being formally presented, still lingering, however, near the charmed circle where the ladies stood. The Count at once took his station at Viola's side, while the Abbe remained in conversation with the hostess.
               Thus St. Olef was for a short time left to himself and his own reflections upon the strange scene before him.
               Perhaps in all the changes of his eventful career, the young man had never experienced such a concentration of rage and bitterness as now filled his soul. He had been disposed to feel somewhat proud of that callous indifference which was his peculiar characteristic. The power to remain coolly impassive amid the most turbulent scenes, was regarded by him as an element of heroism. But here was something that touched him a little closer home than usual. There were depths invaded that had never been stirred before. His pride, self-love, and finer sensibilities were wounded deeply.
               Completely taken by surprise, he struggled against this mastery of feeling. and was even disposed to be indignant with himself that the effort to overcome all appearance of emotion should be so strangely difficult. But he did succeed admirably; few would have dreamed, in looking at the calm repose of that gentlemanly exterior, that so fierce a volcano was raging within. The features were perhaps a little more compressed, the brow drawn closer down over the sternly fixed eye, and the wonted smile of doubtful meaning was missing; but a stranger would not have noticed this. A casual observer no doubt would have regarded him as totally unmoved by what was passing around him. But his glance took in all—and the bitterness of his spirit swelled to fiercest determination those dark schemes over which he had been brooding.
               What before was a mere floating fantasy, quickened to mature resolve. Such a state of mind, like the intoxicating cup to the drunkard, rouses to action the slumbering demon in a man's nature.
               For the first time in his life he felt that he had been duped.
               Had that fair, weak girl, intentionally deceived him—drawing him on to add to the list of her triumphs? He had heard of such things—and that weak, womanly beauty, like artifice in war, was held privileged to use every means to bring in its captives. But that he should have been selected! Ah, there was the rub! Where was that watchful and resistant spirit that had ever guarded him as a wall glittering with fixed steel? Truly, he began even to distrust himself.
               But, strange to say, Viola rather rose than was lowered in St. Olef's estimation by these circumstances. The pursuit of the prize grew more worthy of him.
               Hitherto she had seemed but a mere romantic child, upon whom he could look down from his superior height, with a sort of magnanimous pity for her infatuation with regard to himself, but now the thing took a different aspect. Here was an elegant woman—the center of interest—with at least half a dozen years added to her age by an exquisite and elaborate Parisian toilette No expense had been spared in her array; the shrewd and calculating mother had selected during her recent tour every thing that was befitting the beautiful daughter on this her first presentation in society. And well the queenly array became its wearer. Even St. Olef's fastidious taste was satisfied; he could not but admire the gem shining in fairer setting than he had ever seen it.
               But what was more satisfactory still, his keen eye perceived, even now, as he stood contemplating her, a faint tremulousness in the graceful figure, and an unmistakable pallor in the youthful countenance, blanched as the spotless robe of snow-white satin that enveloped her person. Jewels gleamed upon this tintless garment, but they shed no light upon the calm, expressionless face, and the drooping eyelids. This lack of animation, however, gave an air of haughtiness to Viola's demeanor, which heightened the effect of her appearance.
               Presently she caught St. Olef's eye fixed upon her, and a warm crimson flush instantaneously suffused the perfect features. Others might think this blush was caused by some whispered remark of the devoted lover at her side, but St. Olef felt that this was for him; lie knew now that his power was still acknowledged. His spirit rose exultant; he began to be himself again. With this token of his influence, he could endure some things that had caused a smart in his cool breast. Yes, he had felt some things—they seemed slight—but he never forgot.
               The young Count was certainly not a handsome man; but in the excess of the proud and glowing consciousness that now pervaded his whole being, his dark and manly face looked almost attractive. His bearing was polished, and his square, upright figure not without dignity. But to St. Olef's critical glance, contrasted with the dazzling creature beside him, Count Gruyere was but a low, swarthy, insignificant personage, scarcely above mediocrity.
               "And this man," said he to himself, "claims superiority to me!"
               The Count had always been very agreeable and familiar with St. Olef, but there was an unconscious air of condescension in his manner, as though he came down to fraternize with one who might be of use to him. Perhaps St. Olef's own effort to place himself on an equality with that acknowledged power of rank and station which exalted his services quite distinctly from himself, had resulted in wounding more severely the pride of his nature. It would be a pleasing contest he thought, to measure strength with that young scion of nobility, yes, a very exciting contest.
               
               Viola, now somewhat reassured, began to converse with the Count in more vivacious tones, and with a glancing, soft fire in her eyes.
               Her mother was delighted; she had never seen her daughter appear to such advantage as this moment, when chatting heedlessly she scarcely knew what, not daring to look up, the young girl thrilled to the power of those penetrating eyes St. Olef fixed upon her. With the thoughtless exuberance of girlish vanity, she delighted to show her influence. She knew that she was beautiful—that to-night she was especially lovely—St. Olef, even, must admit this—and she intended to let him see how fascinating she could be in conversation. Excited also with the buzz of admiration that reached her ear, an unusual spirit pervaded both her words and manner, and the Count, already a slave to her charms, was more than ever held captive by her wit and sprightliness. Even her mother, always chary of fond expressions, complimented her to-night.
               But the novelty of the excitement soon passed; the effort grew wearisome; and when the Count still continued his assiduities, playing with her boquet, and interpreting its language of love, she became impatient of his attentions, and half frightened, half fatigued, longed to be away from him, and with childish inconsiderateness began to look upon him as the cause of all her torture.
               But St. Olef gathered new strength as he observed this by-play; it developed all that was most keen and subtle in his nature. Would he lose his opportunities for a few sickly sentimentalities? No, he was not made of such stuff. He would use them, so far as they suited his purposes, that was all; these two, the Count and his bride, were puppets in the path of his ambition—he would use them, also. Raising his head proudly, he looked with his usual serenity upon the motley assemblage that filled the vast saloon.
               Very few ladies were present, and of these not many were young. Some few antiquated dowagers mingled with the crowd in their ancient brocades, poor in purse, but rich in the remembrance of departed dignities. They represented the territorial aristocracy of the State, and were usually accompanied by a train of nephews and grandsons; young men ambitious of ascendancy, desirous of wealth and position, but also desirous of attaining these without the dull and plebeian process of every-day toil. There were also numbers of old men, very old men, who had fattened in office, like their fathers and grandfathers before them. But now their occupation was gone, and they beheld with disgust the innovation of modern ideas, and the rise of popular sentiment in this staunch republic, sweeping aside the claims of the few for the benefit of the many.
               Another class was also present, scattered among the various groups; they were not conspicuous as to numbers, but their influence was far-reaching and predominant. These men were humble in exterior; they spoke in low tones with soft, well-modulated voices; their manner though subdued was earnest; there was a certain persistent, force about them that when directed to a given object seldom failed in its purpose. They did not profess to work for themselves, these men—their actions were performed in the name of a higher power; hence their great influence. They held to the divine right of succession, the perpetuity of kings and rulers, to the divine establishment forever of a class to govern, and a class to be governed.
               Their honied words and specious reasoning on the long line of ancient authority, seemed to put new energy into the feeble old men who listened; and the stately dowagers, sitting in their high-backed chairs ranged along the wall, smiled a gracious approval.
               There were also others present, whose minds were embittered by the progress of events. They were the by-gone celebrities of art and literature; men born in the times when only princes and nobles encouraged and patronized works of art and refinement. Reared and nurtured in such an atmosphere, they could not now associate freely with the general multitude; poor and neglected, they regarded with hatred all rising institutions, and sympathized fully with the effort to restore the ancient regime.
               St. Olef noted all these commingling elements, and shrewdly smiled at the folly of these wise old heads, and these unthinking youthful ones; it was all like a farce enacting before him. One advantage he had gained from his cosmopolitan life; he was free from those trammels which systems, and locations, and family traditions bind around men. Had nature blessed him with a more emotional and affectional temperament, and higher moral capacities, these, combined with his unquestionable intellectual forces, would have presented a character most noble and efficient, fitted to be a leader among men. But the glance of his clear, cold eye, inspired no enthusiasm, for it indicated neither pity nor tenderness. No warmth of human sympathy mingled with his judgments, as he calmly and satirically smiled on the disappointments of these votaries of foregone pleasures of rank and wealth. He had by this time fully recovered his usual equanimity, and was even able to contemplate the pretty flutter of smile and repartee between Viola and the Count without disturbance.
               The Abbe now joined St. Olef, and passing an arm familiarly through his, conducted him through the saloon, formally introducing him to various persons.
               After a little general conversation, as the hours were rapidly waning, the real business of the evening was initiated; doors were partially closed, servants dismissed, curtains drawn closer, and every mark of secrecy observed.
               Some bold conspiracy was evidently on foot; some daring plans were to be perfected. A solemn appeal was made to all present, both men and women, to bind themselves to keep inviolably secret the proceedings of the evening. To this there was a universal assent. Then began presentation of various opinions—doubts and jarrings—ending, as usual in cases where large bodies meet to advance their special opinions or interests, in "confusion worse confounded." Some few were in favor of measures bearing upon the general good, but most were bent upon mere individual aggrandizement, or upon carrying out their favorite schemes, while here and there a testy spirit vigorously maintained an opposition to every thing.
               At length, after tedious discussion, questioning and delay, some general plan of action was proposed. Thereupon followed interminable amendments, lengthy debate, opposition and recrimination; each one had his party's interests or his own to serve, and each one held tenaciously to his own opinion or fancy.
               The young Count arose at this juncture, and with calmness and dignity endeavored to unravel the inextricable knot, and explain away the difficulties. He was listened to with courtesy, but it was evident that speech-making was not his forte, and after an address of considerable length, things appeared to be in as hopeless confusion as ever.
               Then followed the Abbe, but with little better success. He endeavored to bring their minds to the specific object of the meeting; but it was not difficult to perceive that his heart was not in the matter. Indeed, the Abbe seldom seemed to express his own individual convictions; he was as one who repeats the echoes of higher voices, and listens to finer sounds than those which are making discord about him; conveying dimly to his listeners the conceptions of other minds than his own. Therefore, though his words were eloquent, they lacked adaptation to his audience, and fell unheeded.
               What now was to be done?
               The hostess, watchful alert, and deeply interested in all that was passing, felt almost in despair. She looked imploringly at St. Olef, who, standing a little apart, appeared like some calm, superior spirit in the midst of these excited minds.
               "Will not Monsieur speak?" she said.
               
               This was a proud moment for St. Olef. He had been looking on and listening intently; to his dispassionate mind these men seemed weak and trifling idiots, wasting their strength on silly points of etiquette, or meaningless questions, quite aside from the main subject. With a slight touch of sarcasm, but with a composure and assurance that commanded instant attention, he stepped forward and said, in a clear, decided voice:
               "Wait, gentlemen, wait, until you have obtained what you desire before you determine the manner of its distribution."
               The reproof was so unexpected, so well-put, that, coming at a time when all were somewhat spent with their own violence, it make a profound impression. Those who were occupied in various side issues, nodding and whispering to each other at the lower and of the saloon, suddenly grew quit, and gathering nearer gazed at the speaker with interest not unmixed with astonishment.
               They saw before them a young man—very young, as compared with the majority of those about him—who bore their inspection with that undisturbed self-confidence, which in moments of difficulty and indecision seems almost sublime to those who, doubtful and distracted, are brought under its influence. There was no instinctive feeling of short-coming in his breast, none of that weakness which causes a man to shrink from being overrated by others, lest he should fail to equal their expectations. No: he had none of this weak timidity, or sensibility, if we may call it such; he was strong in his perfect indifference. What did he care if the whole thing were exploded? To them it might be a matter of life or death, of ruin or prosperity, but to him,—the world was a wide one, he thanked heaven, and all his interests were not crowded into one small spot on its surface. If this plan did not succeed there were plenty of other paths for a man of his genius, plenty of other means by which to push his fortunes.
               This feeling, however, was not betrayed to those about him; he was at once accepted as the deliverer from the miserable net they had woven about themselves. He belonged to no party; he was a stranger among them, so there was no jealousy of his supremacy. They listened with an unanimous interest, as he continued to speak, urging them to put aside minor considerations, and unite their opposing factions for the accomplishment of one grand purpose, choosing an independent leader.
               With one voice they named him their leader.
               With becoming modesty he begged to decline this unexpected honor.
               "There is the noble Count Gruyere—estimable,—interested,—and one of yourselves."
               But they would listen to nothing more. The reaction from their late hesitancy and division was at its climax, and they were abrupt to decide, and to carry out that decision. He, and he alone should lead them—shape their plans, and bring order out of the chaos.
               The lady of the mansion came forward to congratulate him; she was followed by many others. St. Olef glanced at Viola, an almost imperceptible exultation lighting his eye. Viola's face was flushed with agitation; it satisfied him, but for a moment he wished that Helena was there.
               This triumph, however, did not shake his equanimity. After thanking them for this unlooked-for token of confidence, he proceeded to urge them to immediate action. Now was the time of all others best fitted for a decisive step. There were many floating interests not yet placed in the balance, that might be made to preponderate in their favor. They were well aware that there was much discontent—that the democracy was seeking to gain ascendancy—and lately there had been a complete overturn in the diets of some of the cantons, All the defeated, and those whose interests were involved with them, were naturally disaffected—these they might count upon with certainty. But the masses were against them. The thriving burghers, the peasantry, the sturdy populace generally, would oppose them—it would require much skill and tact draw them in. All offence to local prejudices and fixed systems of belief must be avoided.
               There were murmurs of dissent from this, but St. Olef was not to be changed in his opinion.
               "The multitude must be conciliated, he declared, "at least for the present. The very blood and sinews of these people have been nourished on what they deem freedom of thought. It would be utter ruin to attempt to change their cherished beliefs."
               As he uttered these words, the bland persuasiveness of his voice and manner gave place to a degree of force and spirit which overwhelmed all opposition.
               "It will be time enough," he added, "to moot these questions when we are strong. Now we are weak; we must gain numbers; and to the accomplishment of this we must bend till our efforts."
               He then proposed his plan of operation.
               Disguised scouts should be sent out—a sort of moral agency to influence the people—followed by others to complete the work; men bold, subtle and discriminating, who would do their work cautiously, so that no particular attention should be awakened to their movements. The barriers of popular prejudice must be gradually undermined before the final blow was struck.
               After selecting those best fitted for this work, and agreeing upon a plan of secret operation, a certain time was appointed when they should all meet again to report what had been accomplished, and consult on farther arrangements, and then the assembly dispersed.
               A general feeling of relief and satisfaction was manifest. Some few, to be sure, of the slower and more cautious, shrugged their shoulders with the mental reservation:
               "We will wait; we have not yet tried this young man. It is hardly prudent—he is so daring."
               But the greater number were pleased; to have an able leader took the responsibility from their own shoulders in case any thing went amiss. To be sure he was young, but he had come to them with high military reputation,—and had not some of their own chiefs and heroes been young men also? Why should they hesitate to trust one who had so clearly, and in so timely a manner, indicated the ability to lead? Such genius belonged neither to gray hairs, nor yet to study and experience. He would not deceive their hopes, nor venture their cause into too deep waters.
               Neither was it St. Olef's intention to deceive them, Now that he was fairly embarked in this matter, he would bring his whole force to bear upon it. If these good people placed an undue value on his services, and were disposed to exalt him to the highest pitch of excellence, that was not his fault. Indeed, he had been a little surprised himself at his own pre-eminence, and that by the mere force of his natural ability he had unaided taken such a position; a position in which, with all its novelty and difficulty, he found that his genius did not fail him. He was not unduly elated by success. Not experience but instinct taught him just how far to rely upon this sudden popularity. Quickly it had been attained, quickly it might be lost. We have said that St. Olef's nature was not one calculated to inspire enthusiasm, yet there was a sort of moral grandeur in his indifference to fate, and to the plaudits of his fellow men that impressed itself deeply upon those even who kept aloof from active participance in his schemes.
               Poor Viola was in a state of great excitement; one moment in ft flutter of hope the next filled with doubt and despair.
               Before she had loved St. Olef, now she both loved feared him He was such a hero—could he have a thought for her? Could he, whose hands were filled with sterner duties, whose brain was planning more daring deeds, spare a thought for her distresses? Could he extricate her from unhappy position? Ah, how he must despise her conduct. Would that she could explain it all—tell him how much she loved him, and how she hated and loathed the Count! Oh, for but one moment to speak!
               As the company withdrew, St. Olef came forward to pay his adieus to her mother. Madame detained him in conversation a few moments, and Viola heard her make an appointment with him for the next morning—she wished to confer with him alone for a few moments. It was her only leisure time; the Count would be at the Abbey in the afternoon, and her daughter and herself were engaged to drive with him to Neuchatel.
               "You know, Monsieur," she said, significantly, and in a flatteringly confidential tone, "it is necessary that he should show himself occasionally. He has been a recluse so long that people have almost forgotten him. He and Viola will soon change all that, however."
               St. Olef bowed and turned away, while Madame beckoned the Count to approach.
               When her mother's wary eye was engaged in an opposite direction, Viola found an opportunity to whisper to St. Olef, as he touched her hand with formal politeness and bade her good evening:
               "Dear friend, can you forgive me?"
               A hurried, indistinct whisper, yet St. Olef caught the murmured words, and understood their meaning.
               It took but an instant's brief gesture to appoint an earlier meeting on the morrow, before the interview with her mother.
               They would meet in the conservatory, in front of which they were now standing.
               As St. Olef walked toward the door at the lower end of the saloon, a stir arose at the main entrance, and those crowding toward it drew back in alarm, leaving open passage for a tall, skeleton figure, which stalked up to the centre of the room, followed, to the amazement of those who recognized him, by the pastor of Aesch. The tall figure was not a new apparition to St. Olef. It was the same that had appeared at the inlet, and so alarmed Viola, on the day when they were sailing together.
               The ladies screamed, and the gentlemen exclaimed that there was treachery somewhere. A panel in the wainscoting must have been pushed aside by which these intruders had entered, for the outer doors were securely bolted.
               In the midst of this excitement the lunatic (for such he appeared) waved his arms wildly above his head, and said in a loud, commanding voice:
               "Silence!"
               And silence fell, for Madame L——recovering her presence of mind, stepped deliberately up to the speaker, and fixed her dark eye upon him.
               "My poor, insane husband!" she said.
               The fire instantly left his eye; a visible tremor passed over him; he clung to the pastor as if for protection. But the lady whispered a word in his ear, and taking his arm, led him quietly out.
               The pastor was thus left alone to face the curiosity and indignation of the crowd. St. Olef, with an air of authority, demanded an instant apology for this unwarrantable intrusion.
               To this the pastor was in no mood to accede, and some high words passed between the two. These young men were evidently not disposed to bear much from each other. But the Abbe interposed; he would be full security for the honor of his friend the pastor. He was sure it was some uncontrollable circumstance that had brought him to face so unwelcome a reception. There was nothing to fear from his unexpected presence.
               The pastor then left with the Abbe, remarking that he would explain every thing to his ecclesiastical friend, and he hoped those present would reserve their judgment in regard to his responsibility in the matter, until they heard from that gentleman.
               All but St. Olef were satisfied by the frank simplicity of his manner, and probably would give no farther thought to the occurrence. But the latter was very ill-pleased. The pastor had defied him, treated ed him disdainfully. He never forgot or forgave an injury. But he would bide his time patiently. His opportunity of redress and of vengeance would come.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               AN APPOINTMENT.
               THE proud mistress of Wolfden Abbey, although approximating toward the accomplishment of her long delayed wishes, was far from being altogether satisfied; she could have many things her own way but not all.
               Her husband, so long her torment, had lately manifested such erratic strangeness of conduct, that it was perfectly proper he should be confined. He was now safe under lock and bolt; she held the key in her own strong hands, so all was safe there. Should a cry of misery sometimes reach her ear, it would not disturb her, she was used to these whinings, they had ceased to make any impression upon her nerves, in that respect she was perfectly at ease.
               As to money, she had it in abundance now. Through these long, long years of parsimonious saving, after that strange husband of hers in his mad eccentricity, compelled her to leave France, where she reigned queen of fashion, and brought her here to this wild, out of the way place, to live in obscurity and meanness, seeming to fancy he was doing God service by making every one about him miserable,—during these long years, their funds had been accumulating in the hands of their bankers, and now that her husband's incompetency had been fully established, she found placed to her account in her last secret visit to Paris, a great amount, almost, incredible, altogether at her own disposal.
               Money is a tremendous power, she felt it so, she could now raise her head, and make terms with any; there were no more curious inquiries as to certain rumors of what had been; her equipage, her magnificent style, dazzled and silenced all wonderers.
               And these old, aristocratic families, for miles around, who had held themselves so proudly aloof, were now hastening to do her honor, It was a bold stroke of policy, this presentation at court, bearding the lion as it were in his den. How skillfully she had intrigued! She was proud of herself, and her decided success. She had been most graciously received, taken as it were right into the arms of the charmed circle, she had had every thing just as she could have desired it to be.
               Ah, she was just the one to manage a delicate position! In the exertion of her fine tact, her managing capacity, and her gifts of fascination, how few could rival or withstand her.
               Now, with all these marks of favor from lords and ladies, crowned heads and royal families, she could win her way into any society. How eagerly the decayed gentlemen and gentlewomen of the neighborhood had crowded to her receptions. She was on an equality with them now. These people, shut up in their old chateaus and crumbling castles, living in the remembrances of their past grandeur, and in the narrow routine of their exclusive circle,—with all their reverence for rank and blood, she had found a straight road to their hearts.
               How complacently they listened, as Madame related some anecdote of the court; of royal eyes that had smiled upon her, and royal hands that had touched hers. They felt to bow down and do her honor.
               The mistress of the Abbey congratulated herself on all her triumphs. By her daughter's alliance with the Count, her own ambition for family distinction would be fully gratified. She had met no opposition to her wishes; Viola's will was entirely moulded to hers; all things, she thought, were shaping 
                     themelves
                     themselves
                   to her designs.
               And yet she was not satisfied. Perhaps she could not have named the secret cause of her dissatisfaction—it may have been that in the near attainment of her desires they seemed less worthy of pursuit than when at a distance; certainly Madame was not a very happy woman, nor quite at ease.
               Even those old dowagers, those ladies of quality, the unmistakable representatives of time-honored aristocracy, were becoming distasteful to her. She was tired of their silly platitudes, their class prejudices, their narrow sphere of thought, even their ever-recurring desires for the happy, halcyon days when people of distinction were honored as they should be.
               Poor old ladies! they chose the highest themes they knew for her entertainment, and honored her as they themselves could have desired to be honored,
               "Then, it was something to be of family, to be of our set,—but now everything is mixed up! Everyone is jostling for his place as if he had a right to it. There is no idea of precedence—they are all dumb and blind in their ignorance!"
               "Why Madame," said one of her most distinguished visiters, "the mere burgher in his jog-trot turnout, will dispute the way with my outriders! And the merest vine-growers, who in the time of my ancestors would not have been allowed to come before them with their heads covered—bless your soul, they stand with their hands in the pockets of their capots, looking into our carriage windows with all the airs of strict equality. It is dreadful!"
               Madame, of course, shrugged her shoulders; she had a part to play; but she was disgusted with such folly. She found little pleasure in such distinguished society.
               Altogether, the morning after her assembly found her in ill condition, dissatisfied and uneasy. St. Olef had suggested some ideas, and opened up, some difficulties of which she had not dreamed before.
               She had at once recognized St. Olef's abilities; he stood in mental calibre far above most men whom she had met.
               Oh, dear, if the Count were but like him! She saw the weakness of the Count but too distinctly—that inordinate pride of ancestry, that concentration upon a few ideas, to which he held with obstinate tenacity. But then he was good and honorable; the worldly-minded woman fully appreciated these latter qualities—and she could not do without him. But neither could she avoid the growing desire to have him different; and now it was very evident to her keen insight, that he had taken the weakest side. These grave men in their councils had great influence over him; she knew they would not allow the slightest deviation from their fixed ideas of sacred authority; she knew that although on the evening before, they had been silenced by St. Olef's ascendency, they would still be heard, and quite as well she knew that if they were heeded, it would be to the ruin of the cause. For to the dictates of these representatives of aristocracy, and of an unpopular faith, the masses of the Swiss population, and especially those of the Protestant canton of Neuchatel would never submit. It was upon these difficult matters that she wished to confer with St. Olef in secret.
               So she waited his coming in her own little boudoir, arrayed with unusual care, in elaborate morning-costume. She wished to impress him with her consequence, to overcome him by her condescension. How perfectly, with all her acuteness, she misunderstood the character of this young man! Completely as she failed to know him, was he as far out of the way in his analysis of her more mature character? I think not. But then they hardly stood upon equal ground; he was unembarrassed by the many complications which surrounded her, whose all was at stake on the issue of this contest. It was not, therefore, to be expected that her perceptions should be as clear and unbiased as his. She certainly had made some mistake in her estimate of this hero, for she was quite enthusiastic and impatient to meet him. Her calculations were very sanguine. She judged from his polished exterior and deferential manner, that he would be a willing slave, could he but be brought under the influence of those winning arts of persuasion, those cunningly put flatteries, which had made her irresistible in many other cases.
               Thus, while she waited, her thoughts were busy with all the possibilities and probabilities of the interview, while from the high-perched window in the old Abbey, her eyes wandered over the broad expanse of country, to see if a single horseman could yet be discerned, mounting the winding road which led from the valley up to the main entrance of the edifice.
               But our young diplomatist had not chosen the direct route. In managing circumstances and people, in both war and love, he was master of all the arts of strategy. This lady, so watchful and suspicious, had not the faintest idea of the byplay that was being enacted almost under her eye.
               St. Olef had spent the night with Count Gruyere. At an early hour he left the castle, and riding rapidly, reached the strip of woods that skirted the rear of the Abbey, almost before any of the inmates of the house were moving. Only poor Viola, who had slept little that night, shivering with fear, and more dead than alive, had crept down to the conservatory at daylight to there await him.
               The young man dismounted on reaching the wood, and fortunately at that moment a stupid country lad came strolling along, to whom the horseman presented a piece of money that made his dull eyes open very wide. The peasant had never held so much in his hard hand before, and puzzling over the strange mystery of cause and effect, his intellect quite brightened up as he looked. He listened carefully to the precise orders of the generous stranger, which were to the effect that he should remain in that spot about one hour, after which he should carefully lead the horse into the stable-yard of the Abbey, and await further orders.
               Taking the short pathway through the wood, St. Olef soon reached the terraced garden, whose neglected vines and rank growth of weeds formed a tangled mass almost as impenetrable as the undergrowth of a forest. He leaped over the low stone wall, and made his way through as best he could, looking up, as he passed the thicket, at the gray face of the old Abbey. But there was no tell-tale port-hole there, whence curious eyes might be peering on him; it was a great, blank surface whereon were carved mysterious devices and old monkish inscriptions, of little interest except to those that inscribed them there.
               Boldly proceeding onward among the winding paths and untrimmed bushes of the garden—once, no doubt, a place of great beauty—he came to a flight of low, stone steps, which he judged must lead to the conservatory; nor was he mistaken, for on ascending them and pushing open a glass door, he saw the slight figure of Viola, partially concealed by the branches of a large orange tree.
               She heard his footstep.
               In a moment she was by his side, all confusion, fear and trembling. Her own conscience, all through that weary night, had been tormenting her almost beyond endurance, and the thought of what St. Olef might suffer at her supposed perfidy, was indeed more than she could bear. "Oh, if he could only know everything!" she repeated in despair, as she walked the little room through the many hours of darkness; "but he is so grand, and strong and wise, and I am so weak and foolish. He cannot see how I can love my own mamma, and yet be so very, very much afraid of her."
               And then she began to think how much wrong she had done,—how she had refrained from telling St. Olef that she knew Count Gruyere. But why should she have done so? Count Gruyere was nothing to her. True, she was aware that he admired her, and she had often listened with pleased complacency to the merry jests of her own maid—a sort of privileged person, half companion, half servant—at the prospect of her one day being a great Countess; but then it was all jest, surely she had not deceived St. Olef. Indeed, from the time she saw the latter, she had quite forgotten, in the absorption of every faculty to his worship, that such a person as Count Gruyere ever existed; and when on the evening of the day she was summoned home, her mother made that astounding announcement ment that she was to be presented to the world as the bride elect of this Count, her consternation may be better imagined than described.
               Hardly yet recovered from her late delirium of happiness, it seemed as if she were smitten with death. Why could she not tell her mother of what had occurred, the moment the hated matter was mentioned? Why did she not say she could not love Count Gruyere, that she then loved another so very, very far his superior. She was timid and weak, she dared not face the wrath and disappointment of her mother. And what would St. Olef think of this? How should she meet him? This was her great dread—she loved him deeply, devotedly, but still there was fear mingled with this devotion. She could not throw herself on his tenderness, and feel that he would only pity her weakness, for her instincts told her that tenderness was not a predominant trait in her lover. He was great, he was wonderful,—how could he understand her weak, timid fears?
               Poor foolish girl, her very look and action shewed a conscious guilt. St. Olef was not slow to take advantage of this. He met her with an air of injured pride.
               Sobbing bitterly she held his hand.
               "Oh forgive me, Pierre," she cried,—he had taught her to call him thus—"forgive me, I shall die if you do not."
               "But you have so deceived me, Viola, shamefully deceived me."
               "No, Pierre," said she with vehemence, "I could not deceive you. I love you, and only you—if you knew all you would not say so."
               "Then why did you act such a lie."
               "Oh, Pierre!"
               "Yes, a lie to all; to the Count, to every one in that assemblage, there was a tacit acknowledgment of acceptance—and with those vows fresh on your lips."
               "Pierre, Pierre," she cried, with a burst of passionate feeling, "say no more, I will die at your feel, if you thus condemn me. If you knew everything, you would have, pity on me. I dare not, oh, I dare not do otherwise."
               "Dare not!" he repeated 
                     contemptously
                     contemptuously
                  . "Ah, that is but a meager affection that cannot brave even the storm of the domestic atmosphere."
               She could only sob still more deeply and helplessly.
               "But you are right," he continued; "these foolish vows of ours had better be kept secret, profoundly secret; it is not yet the time. Not even to your dearest friend must they be told. Remember, I hold you by them, but they are not to be spoken. I wait your promise."
               This was said in such a hard, stern voice, that even she, in her bewildered anguish, started, looking at him with an expression of strange inquiry.
               But that practised face never revealed its secrets, she could only still gaze in mute despair.
               "Your promise, Viola," he said, more gently.
               "Yes, yes, I will promise any thing, Pierre, only say you will forgive me."
               "Well; we will talk of this another time."
               "No, now, now, Pierre, tell me now. But hark!" and she started with terror, "is not that a voice?"
               "No, it was but a branch of a tree outside, against the glass."
               "But, mamma may come, let us meet in some other place, I cannot stay here, oh no!" and again she listened with trembling fear.
               "This is childish, Viola," he said, with impatience. "If you wish me to go, I will leave at once."
               "No, no," and she again took his hand eagerly, "I want to explain everything, you must look kindly on me again, you must forgive me; I shall die if you do not."
               He was somewhat softened by her deep distress, and spoke almost tenderly, as he said: "Then where shall it be, in the wizard's den you have often told me about?"
               " No, no, not there!" she replied with a shudder.
               "Why not?"
               "There are fearful things said about the place. The peasants believe that if two enter together there, one must surely die."
               St. Olef laughed aloud. "That is a very safe prediction."
               "But it means," she said, coloring, "that one must die a violent death. But, of course, I only repeat what I have heard. It is a sweet, secluded place, I often go there alone."
               "Well, we will try it together, once, at any rate. I will take all the risks, nothing can harm you, Viola, you are so innocent and good."
               Poor girl, she was all happiness again.
               "When, then, shall it be, tomorrow?"
               "Not tomorrow; mamma and I go with the Count to Neuchatel."
               "The next day."
               "Not then, either," said Viola, hesitating and blushing crimson. "We go to the Cathedral, to hear pastor Renshawe preach."
               "And I am to wait—wait your pleasure," lie said indignantly, "while you still more openly display your triumphs."
               "Oh, St. Olef, if I could make you know how I hate and despise myself, you would pity and help me. It is mamma plans it; I dare not refuse." Again she started, and listened trembling:
               "I hear mamma's voice! On Monday, then, early, at the Wizard's Den—do come, Pierre," and with a hurried step she left his side, and descended to the garden, her floating drapery disappearing round an angle of the building, as he, with unembarrassed coolness, opened the dividing doors, and stepping into the saloon, paced slowly up and down, as though waiting Madame's leisure.
               He had the pleasure of hearing Madame scolding the servants for not acquainting her of Monsieur St. Olef's arrival, of which they all, in astonishment, declared themselves ignorant. But there was his horse in the stable, and the rider had evidently been waiting some time. She entered the saloon, making many apologies for this apparent neglect.
               She had been waiting his arrival more than half an hour, she said, and as he did not appear, she had come down to make inquiries.
               He received her explanations with all possible graciousness. Both were acting a part. She wished to make a favorable impression, and all her arts of pleasing were brought into requisition; she was most affable and agreeable, insisting on his going to her own private boudoir, and having some refreshment, while they had a quiet little conversation together.
               But he was prepared for all Madame's wiles; he understood her tactics, and no one was going to make use of him for their individual purposes—indeed he felt surprised that any one should presume to think it possible.
               Yet he listened attentively to all she said; he had a capital knack of that. He could appear deeply interested, and thus obtain all the information he needed, without committing himself.
               So Madame, usually so wary, revealed a great many of her secrets, more than she was aware of. There was nothing directly said, but St. Olef gathered a great deal by inference. He found that the son-in-law elect was not everything that was desired, although centering in himself many estimable qualities, and social and political interests; yet, if opportunity came, and more brilliant advantages offered, he might be flung aside, after all.
               Since her late visit at court, the lady insinuated, she had rather changed her views on some subjects; still, she was bound by solemn promises, formerly made, and she had so far acceded to them as to allow this public recognition of her daughter's, engagement. The engagement must still continue, although Madame was in possession of certain promises from high quarters, on her own account, which might, prove of sufficient consequence to render necessary a change of programme. Nothing would be done hastily, but there were insinuations thrown out that it would be to the interest of any ambitious, rising young man to place himself under hen wing. It was impossible to say what might occur. She had been delighted with St. Olef's management on the previous evening, and she was not sparing of her compliments on his acuteness, his statesmanlike abilities, and his influence upon others.
               But, her listener, though flattered, would not yet make any promises; he had not sufficiently felt his way; neither would he let her know all he could do, in case he linked himself to her interests. The military services he could command from Italy would depend very much upon certain offers made; she would have to give him more definite information as to what could be done, and then he could better inform her what he himself could do. He had his emissaries constantly at work, and he could act quickly after a determination was made.
               Thus they parted, soon to meet again. On the whole St. Olef was pleased; he saw things working as he wished them. And Madame, also, had her pleasing thoughts; she felt that she might gain this powerful auxiliary; in that case she too might defy a great many things that were in her way at present.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               A WALK.
               WHEN St. Olef returned to Le Petit Chateau, after his morning visit, he found Helena preparing to take a walk to Neuchatel. She was going to call upon some young friends there. He at once offered to accompany her, and she could not do otherwise than assent. Yet she would much have preferred to decline his companionship.
               The walk, however, proved a very delightful one. The afternoon was fine, the broad, quiet road, with its pretty residences and blooming gardens, was invitingly sunny and peaceful. St. Olef, when he chose, could be a most entertaining companion. He related to Helena many historical incidents connected with the little canton of Neuchatel, dating back to the times of the bold Charles of Burgundy, who, with all his skill and prowess, had failed to subdue these hardy people. He told her of the different princes that had held their state within the walls of the old town, of the jealousy of their subjects in regard to any manifestation of authority; of the dissensions and bitter feuds between subject and ruler, leading to constant outbreaks with the government.
               "Indeed," said he, laughing, "I rather think your people enjoy these little rebellions, they enter into them with so much zest."
               "Yes," answered Helena, "they do love freedom, these people of Neuchatel. Liberty is dearer to the Swiss than their lives. There must be something in the free air of our mountains, that renders it impossible to submit to tyranny. Looking from our lofty peaks men are but pigmies—our avalanches could sweep them away by myriads. No, no, in the presence of our glorious Alps, we cannot own man mighty. It is only where space is limited, and ideas circumscribed, that his power is acknowledged."
               "But you reverence ancestry."
               "Yes, we are trained to honor our ancestors as representatives of what is good and brave in the past—we honor all good and brave men, but we can not exalt them unduly, because—because—"
               "Because of the mountains?" suggested St. Olef, smiling at her enthusiasm. "One would imagine, Mademoiselle, that you were a true-born Swiss."
               "I am not a native of Switzerland, but I have lived here so long, that it has become identified with all my thoughts and associations. I love the grand old country!" said Helena, blushing as she met her companion's eye.
               They had now entered the town, and passing through its pretty square, and along one of its well-kept streets, came presently to the house where they intended to call.
               The ladies were all at home, and delighted to see them, and a lively conversation followed.
               St. Olef was in his most affable mood, and all the young ladies agreed that he was perfectly fascinating.
               They wondered if he and Helena were engaged. Surely no one could be in the house with him so long as she had been, and not be in love! They did not hold to the adage, that "distance lends enchantment to the view." If he was so delightful during a short half-hour, what must he be when the time extended to days and weeks? They had heard all about that interesting indisposition—that wound received in battle—it had made a deal of talk in this quiet town of Neuchatel. A romantic sympathy had been excited for the young soldier. Why, even now he halted, and leaned upon his cane when he walked. But it only made him more interesting.
               As the visiters arose to take leave, the mistress of the house asked Helena if she had heard the news, that pastor Renshawe we was in disgrace?
               St. Olef would have given the world for a glimpse of Helena's face at that moment, but it was turned from him.
               She replied in a low tone that she had not heard this news.
               Then one of the young ladies took up the matter, saying, "Oh, mamma, not disgrace—the pastor is not disgraced! But they say there is great excitement among his people, and that he talks the strangest things, sometimes,—about people needn't die if they don't choose,—or something of the sort. I can't tell exactly what. But some of the parish wanted to apply to the council for his dismissal. Deputy Rochefort, however, who lives near the pastor, will not hear to it."
               "Ah," said her sister, "ah, that accounts for it! They say that the pastor and the Deputy's daughter are to be married before very long. At least, rumor says that the pastor spends most of his time there. Either that or something else keeps him too much away from his people."
               Poor Helena began to feel faint.
               "But," said the first speaker, "Deputy Rochefort has managed to have his own way, after all. The pastor is to preach before the council, from a text of their own selection—a trial sermon."
               "At what time?" asked St. Olef, With an air of interest.
               "The trial is to take place to-morrow, at the Cathedral. We are all going. Every body will be there—the first people of the country—Count Gruyere, among the rest. I suppose you've heard about Viola,—isn't it strange? See what it is to be a beauty!"
               "I'm sure I don't envy her the Count," chimed in the younger sister; "he would not be my choice. But they say Viola's mother is so ambitious. I suppose if the Count is at the Cathedral, others of the nobility will be present. No doubt his old aunt, the Marquise, in that immense equipage, with her coachman and footman and outriders, in their antiquated liveries,—the drollest sight! I would not miss it for the world. You must certainly be there, Helena."
               Helena was glad to get away, into the open air once more.
               Her companion and herself walked on for some moments in silence. As they entered the square, an unusual commotion attracted their attention. Some children came running along, crying, "Here they come!" and on rolled a glittering carriage drawn by four horses. In the carriage sat beside the Count, Viola and her mother; the two latter magnificently arrayed. It was a splendid turnout, altogether. The gay liveries, the proud steeds, the glitter and dash of the whole, quite took the little town by surprise.
               Apparently the party did not see our pedestrians—at least the ladies did not—but St. Olef shrewdly suspected that the Count purposely looked another way, and it added another drop to the cup of his bitterness.
               "Aha!" he muttered, "his lordship can not condescend to recognize a humble acquaintance now—but perhaps my turn may come."
               His sharp eye had also noticed in passing ing the pride and exultation of Viola's beautiful countenance. "And she, too, is puffed up with her importance, poor, foolish thing!" was his mental comment. "I shall not lose my hold, however; I can manage her."
               And he smiled the smile of scornful superiority.
               Neither Helena nor St. Olef made any remark to each other as the gay equipage dashed out of sight. With a view to shortening the way to the suburbs, they turned out of the public street into a narrow lane occupied mostly by working people.
               Scarcely had they entered this obscure by-street, when St. Clef's hand was seized, and a cheery little voice cried:
               "Oh, Monsieur, I am so glad to see you!"
               It was Bertha, the bright little maiden who had been his escort up the mountain on the day of Lady Orilia's festival. Here were the same chubby arms that had so sturdily assisted him up the rocks, and the same round, beaming eyes that had encouraged and patronized him on that trying occasion.
               "And here is Mam'selle Helena, too!" she exclaimed, clapping her tiny palms together in rapturous delight. "Oh, you must come in and see my mamma and the baby!"
               "Not now, Bertha, we are in haste," said Helena.
               But Bertha would take no refusal.
               "Oh, you must come, for my papa is home too?" as if that last inducement must prove irresistible. "Do come, for over such a little while."
               And dancing on before them, she skipped into the open doorway of a house, whither they could not resist following.
               They were introduced, after Bertha's impulsive fashion, to "papa," a stout and cheery workman, just returned from his day's labor, and to "mamma," a rather delicate looking woman, who was bending over a furnace, preparing supper, while the baby crowed for joy on its father's knee, and watched the proceedings with baby interest.
               Helena apologized for their intrusion. But the frank good-nature of the parents, and the gaiety of little Bertha, soon relieved all embarrassment.
               The little girl had told them all about the gala-day, and the stranger she had conducted up the mountain, and they knew Helena well from the same source. With much good-will they urged the lady and gentleman to sit and rest themselves for awhile.
               But to Bertha's great chagrin, they declined; they would come again soon.
               St. Olef's busy brain, ever quick to seize an opportunity, felt that there was perhaps some information to be gained by contact with these people. He told the young workman he should see him again, and probably trouble him with some traveller's questions; he was much interested in the country, and especially in its working classes.
               The reply was a cordial assurance of welcome; they would both be most happy to serve him.
               It was getting late, the sun was sinking below the horizon, and the two quickened their pace as they left the narrow street and emerged upon the open road.
               At this moment pastor Renshawe appeared, on the way to Neuchatel. They met face to face, and were all somewhat startled at the unexpected rencounter. No one spoke; the pastor returned Helena's nod of recognition with a low reverence, arid passed on.
               St. Olef turned, and muttered something between his teeth that sounded like a threat. Helena caught the half-uttered words; she looked up into his face surprised. Not a feature was disturbed. Perhaps she had been mistaken. Of course St. Olef could have nothing against the pastor.
               It was nearly dark when they reached the Chateau. Lady Orilia had not yet returned; she was detained at the bedside of a sick-woman. Ursula brought in the light, and the tea-urn, and they sat down to supper. The long walk had given them excellent appetites, and they enjoyed their hot tea and toast with infinite relish. St. Olef was restored to good-humor, and Helena had concluded that her ears had deceived her in regard to his muttered words when they met the pastor. So they both gave themselves up to the enjoyment of the hour with youthful light-heartedness.
               "How beautiful Viola looked this afternoon!" said Helena. "I always thought she was the sweetest girl I ever saw, and that nothing could improve her—but I see that rich attire sets off her loveliness. It somewhat alters the character of her beauty, gives her more maturity, but I think the improvement a decided one—don't you, Monsieur?"
               "Well," replied St. Olef, indifferently, "I am not prepared to say. The young lady did look charming, no doubt, but there was too much flush and exultation about her to suit my taste."
               "But it was only an innocent and childish exultation. I know Viola well—she has no pride or superciliousness about her. Her imagination is pleased with the new situation and the new splendors, that is all."
               "Then you admit that she is weak."
               "No, I do not, by any means," answered Helena. "She is simple, truthful,—a little timid, perhaps,—but not weak. And when I consider the difficulties of her life, the delicacy of her constitution, her few advantages at home, I really marvel at her superiority. And then she is so young, Monsieur."
               "And you are so old," said St. Olef, with a smile at her gravity.
               Helena did not notice the comment; she was absorbed in, her own thoughts.
               "I wonder," she said, more to herself than to her companion: "I wonder if Viola is happy in this engagement? I somehow fear she is not. It was so very sudden—I fear her ambitious mother planned it all, and Viola dared not resist. Perhaps this is fancy—but her mother is a very peculiar woman. Why, do you know, Monsieur, that she has never made the slightest acknowledgment to lady Orilia, for all her kindness to Viola? Oh, I am afraid the poor child is unhappy! I would write to her about it, but her mother would not allow her to see the letter."
               "I think," said St. Olef, "that you may rest assured she is not miserable—judging by appearances to-day."
               The fact was that St. Olef had something else on his mind. He did not care at present to hear any thing more about Viola. He sat for some minutes in silence, sipping his tea, and daintily loitering over the toast upon his plate.
               At last he raised his head suddenly, looking now directly in his companion's face. The light from the two wax candles on the table shone directly upon her, so that there was no obstruction to his gaze, as he said, with slow and peculiar emphasis,—
               "The pastor has not visited here very lately?"
               His look—the unexpected significance of the sentence, took Helena unaware; she was at once hopelessly embarrassed; the blood rushed to her face, and her tongue absolutely refused to utter a word.
               St. Olef still regarded her steadily, until her eyes drooped under his gaze; but at this time there was an expression of bitter malignity in his countenance:
               "It is well," he said coolly, "I am glad he does not come, here."
               Helena had by this time recovered her composure. She was vexed and ashamed at her weakness—any one would suppose she was in love with the pastor! But of course it was only because she feared that supposition was in St. Olef's mind, that she blushed when he spoke. And when he again repeated, "It is well; I am glad," she was impelled to ask why.
               As she asked this question she looked quite as directly into his face as he did in hers.
               "Because he is a villain!" he muttered audibly.
               "Nonsense," said Helena, with determined spirit; "you are mistaken; the pastor is not a villain."
               I trust, Mademoiselle, you will excuse any seeming contradiction," he said, with his old sneer, "but I have met the pastor in places where, to obtain an entrance, proved him either a villain or a base intermeddler."
               "He is neither!" said Helena, her eyes sparkling with indignation.
               "Ah, you are hardly a judge!" he replied, with quiet, concentrated scorn.—"You love the pastor;"
               "Monsieur," said Helena, now rising with dignity that even awed St. Olef, "you have no right to talk to me in this manner. I cannot submit to it. You must allow me to leave."
               "Pardon me! I entreat you to pardon me!" he said, with something of natural earnestness, "I was carried away—"but he stopped—his native caution returned; he must not commit himself.
               Just then the door opened, and Ursula stood there to say that Mademoiselle was wanted—to come at once, there was great haste. Helena left the room immediately, not even waiting to excuse the sudden call, and then passed out to the lawn.
               St. Olef, strangely curious, arose and followed her.
               The night was dark, but he could see Helena's figure in the distance. She opened the garden gate, leaving it ajar, and stepped along the inner path; he still silently following. He saw her enter a vine covered arbor, on which the light from a little window fell, making the leaf-shadows flicker on her fluttering garments, as she lightly hurried to the porch of one of the quaint little houses that adjoined to the main edifice of Le Petit Chateau. Opening the door softly, she went in.
               Looking through the uncovered window, he saw her bending over a couch, whereon lay an aged woman, apparently insensible. This must be the grandmother of whom he had heard. But why so much mystery about her. A tall, fine-looking old lady he judged the invalid to be, but not being specially interesting to the youth he returned to the house. Moodily he waited, hoping that Helena would return. They were evidently used to the old lady's attacks of illness; probably the young lady would come back soon. But he waited in vain.
               When the Lady Orilia arrived home, at a late hour, she found him pacing the sitting-room. He was instantly restored to his usual urbanity, entered into conversation with his kind hostess, inquired about the pastor's difficulties, and made an appointment to accompany her to the Cathedral on the morrow.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               CONFIDENCES.
               WE last met pastor Renshawe in the great saloon of Wolfden Abbey, in rather an equivocal position; at least he was there an unbidden guest. The reader will recollect that he left immediately after his intrusion, promising to explain to his friend the Abbe, the circumstances that brought him there at such an unpropitious time. Between the Abbe and this young man, notwithstanding their disparity in years, there existed an attachment of unusual strength. The Abbe from the first of his acquaintance with the pastor, had felt an exceeding tenderness toward him; an almost pity for that over-sensitiveness, that painful self-distrust, which limited his efficiency, and destroyed the full independence of his manhood. It was the Abbe's sincere aim to strengthen his friend, to make him know himself, and embolden him to the full expression of his thoughts. And well was he rewarded for his faithful interest by the richness of the mine he uncovered, and the gratitude and affection of the young man.
               Warm friendship necessarily leads to confidence between those that experience it, and these two had revealed to each other in many of their lonely walks, the secret depths of emotion and suffering.
               The pastor was in deep humiliation and distress; he hardly knew how to bear the anguish he endured; and his heart leaped out to his old friend. Long before he had told the Abbe the story of his love, his doubts, his hopes. But now he was utterly cast down; not a ray of hope or light roused him up from his desolation of despair.
               Shut out from the Chateau, treated with suspicion by his dearest friends, the pastor could not turn to his people for sympathy or affection.
               When Madame Renshawe, in her indefatigable attention to her son's interests, made her unfortunate visit to Le Petit Chateau, she had no knowledge how deeply her son's affections were engaged with one of its inmates.
               The pastor made no explanations to his mother: he simply withdrew from the Chateau. It was evident that Helena shunned him. It was evident that she favored St. Olef. What had he to offer in comparison with this splendid cavalier? An humble village pastor—he could not, he would not blame Helena that she preferred a higher destiny than he could offer. She never had cared for him—he saw it plainly now. She was too good and beautiful for him. It was only his egregious folly that had led him into such a mistake.
               His sympathising friend said all that he could to cheer him, and told his own little romance in return. A romance that astonished his hearer; like all young people, he had imagined only the young could love.
               But a new phase of life's mystery was shown him; for this grave and deliberate man, long past his youth, revealed a depth of passionate feeling that seemed to shame by its enduring force the frantic impatience of the pastor.
               "I have never betrayed this secret to any one on earth but yourself," said the Abbe, "and yet I have loved this woman these many years. Her every word and thought has fitted to my soul and braced it to strength. I have spent with her hours of the most exquisite companionship, listening to her sweet tones of voice, her gentle, persuasive words, which were to me like the breathings of some soft, wind-touched lyre, raising my spirit to highest exaltation, or touching it with a strange, sweet melancholy. Still, no word or look of mine betrayed me—and I would not have it otherwise. She can never be mine; and let me enjoy this one luxury, this silent worship, as I would enjoy the warmth of the sun, the beauty of the stars, or any other of God's created excellence. To me, she is the embodiment of a perfect, a true womanhood. I owe her much; she has made my life endurable, and my gratitude shall only end with my life.
               "When I first met Lady Orilia," he continued, (for it was she who had inspired this strong attachment,) "I considered her very plain, indeed remarkably so. It is about fifteen years since she came to this place; she was accompanied by Helena, then a little girl, four or five years of age, and an elderly lady, the child's grandmama. The little girl prattled constantly about her own mamma, Who had just died and gone away to heaven, and how the good Lady Orilia had taken care of her, and kissed her when she died.
               "The old lady was still somewhat vigorous and stately, but her mind seemed to be much impaired; she was always muttering about some loss or change that had overtaken her, which no doubt Was the cause of her mental aberration.
               "She was a great charge for the Lady Orilia, requiring constant care and attention, but the duty was faithfully performed. Both were dependent upon her; and she, at that time, had to gain her livelihood by her own exertions. Now, I am happy to say, although still as actively employed as ever, she is independent, partly through her own efforts, and partly because her father obliges her to share his wealth. You know how she is loved and reverenced here, but you do not know the sacrifices of her life. The partial insight into its history which I have obtained, has inspired me with a loftier appreciation of womanhood than I ever had felt before. But, as I said, when I first saw her, she seemed to me so very plain in appearance, that, recognizing her intellectual superiority, I thought to myself, 'Here is one whose society and conversation I can enjoy joy without danger of rousing any undue warmth of feeling.' Alas, my mistake! I thought to be benefited and instructed by a closer intimacy with a varied and powerful intellect, without compromising my freedom. I knew the danger of intimacy with the beautiful and fascinating, but I did not then know, as I do now, that there is a fascination much more lasting than any external grace can bestow."
               The Abbe was an enthusiast; a good, devout man, but one of those whose lives seem utterly lost to themselves. He was of a class now, it is to be hoped, nearly extinct; a class of men supported and pushed forward in life under the patronage of great families, bound by gratitude to think as they think, do as they do, and passing through life without that self-assertion necessary to independent manliness of character.
               The old Count and Countess Gruyere, had in the days of their prosperity taken a special fancy to young Vinett, a son of one of their old retainers. He was a bright lad, and they had him educated for the church, deeming this an act of great piety. They had done their part—which gave them immense satisfaction. They did not consider what might be the sacrifices of the youth, or how it might suit the peculiar bias of his mind in after life. He became a fine scholar, a strict student,—every thing but a satisfied man.
               He was advanced rapidly as he completed his studies, but before he had taken full orders, a change came over the circumstances of his patron. This change from wealth to comparative poverty (the result of circumstances which need not be here detailed) was bitterly felt by the proud Count and his lady. Their only son was now arrived at, an age when he should be educated, but without funds or means of raising them, how was this to be accomplished?
               At this juncture the Abbe came forward. With true devotion, he offered to undertake the care and training of the growing boy.
               Soon after this both parents died; and now more than ever the Abbe felt his responsibility for the care of the orphan. He never faltered in his self-imposed task, which was in many respects a trying one, for the youth, though possessing many excellent traits, was stubborn, proud, and far from brilliant. The Abbe, however, loved him as though he had been his own son, and was unwearied in his devotion to his interests.
               Of late there had been some estrangement between them, arising from differences of opinion. Yet, though the Abbe made many efforts to dissuade the Count from his erroneous views, he felt it his duty to still remain near him. Possibly he might avert any serious results by so doing. But he found, as a consequence, that much was kept from him; that their former frank relation of master and pupil was at an end, and that strange doings were going on, with which he was not to be made acquainted. Pained and saddened, he felt, more acutely than ever, how aimless and futile his life had been.
               On the evening when the Abbe and his friend the pastor left the great saloon of Wolfden Abbey, the latter was much excited by his encounter with St. Olef. The arrogant assumption of superiority on the part of one whom he considered a rival, was more than he could endure.
               The Abbe suffered him to exhaust himself, and then quietly said:
               "And how came you here to-night, my dear friend?"
               "You know, Monsieur Abbe," said the young man, more calmly; "You know how changed I am,—I cannot sit down and enjoy my books and my thoughts, as I used to do. Even the conversation of my dear, good mother, has become irksome to me. Well, I strolled out after supper to take a long walk; I had left the frequented paths, and gotten, as I fancied, into utter loneliness, when I encountered that strange being you saw me with. Maniac, or whatever he may be, he appears to have the faculty of lighting upon me just when I least expect him. He was much excited, and walked toward me with rapid strides, grasping my arm fiercely, as he came up.
               "'You are the man—you are the man!' he cried, I was told I should meet you!' he cried, I was told I should meet you!'
               "I must confess I was a little alarmed, he seemed so unusually strong and wild.
               "'Come,' said he; 'there are terrible things being enacted—you too have taken a part in them. Oh, my daughter, my daughter, how can I save her?'
               "Of course I had to go with him—there was no resisting that powerful grasp. If I had done so I should probably have lost my control over him altogether. I told him if he would release his hold, I would follow him. As we walked along, he said in his usual mystical way: 'I have been permitted to see many things—but dimly, very dimly. Dark clouds are hovering round my poor girl's head, they are closing fast. I must snatch her out of them—but how? The mocking fiend points to you—but then he laughs. I hear that horrible laugh now—listen!'
               "'No, no,' I said, impatiently: 'it is only your fancy. We are quite alone.'
               "'I am never alone,' he replied, 'never alone. But I can not always tell what they want who haunt me; I can not understand their words; I am bewildered. Oh, my God, what am I to do?'
               "'Let us walk on quietly,' said I, 'perhaps you will hear them again.'
               "I thought to soothe him by this discreet suggestion, and for a time he did walk on in silence, as if attent to the voice of some invisible speaker.
               "'I have it,' said he at length; 'you are to marry my daughter—you are to save her—they have told me so.'
               "You may imagine my astonishment at this announcement.
               "'I would be satisfied,' he added, turning solemnly to me, 'but for that hideous laugh. But come, let us hasten on—there is not one moment to lose.'
               "I had great difficulty in following him, and if I had found a fair opportunity would have got out of his way. But there was no help for it, I was hurried along breathless, keeping up with his wild walk as best I could. It was a night-ramble not much to my taste, if I am fond of an evening stroll; I was getting very weary, when we began to ascend a steep pathway up the mountains, whence, with a sudden descent, we appeared to dive down into the very bowels of the earth, and entered suddenly what I took to be a vast amphitheater, but so filled with tangled bushes and undergrowth, that we could scarcely make our way. After beating about in this thicket for awhile, with no light but the stars, far, far above, my companion discovered what he seemed to have been looking for, a door, or some means of egress, which yielded to his touch, and we passed through, into a dark, vault-like passage. I began to breathe more freely; we were certainly approaching human habitation, at least, and I might hope to escape my terrible guide. He knew his way perfectly; crossing many deserted passages, under wet and slimy archways, groping our way in subterranean gloom, we mounted at length a flight of stone steps. The air now grew less oppressive, and I could hear the hum of distant voices. I demanded where he was leading me, but received no answer. We were now, evidently in the lower apartments of an inhabited dwelling; I could hear footsteps and voices above. Still ascending, we came upon a high dividing wall. I was groping about, trying to find my way along its base, when I heard the jingling of a key; 'I have it!' exclaimed my companion, with a low, 'chuckling laugh, and in a moment a panel flew open—and there we were where you saw us."
               The Abbe smiled; he understood the whole affair now.
               "But," said he, "you did not, like a gallant knight, rescue the fair lady."
               "No," said the pastor gloomily; "the fair ladies have all found more acceptable knights."
               "'Never mind," said the Abbe, taking his hand cordially, "keep up a cheerful heart. I am right glad to be with you again—though I hear this is a 
                     foridden
                     forbidden
                  
                   pleasure now. The Lady Orilia tells me that you are in trouble with your parish."
               "Does she still take interest in me?"
               "Interest?—to be sure she does! Why should she not? But I hear that oh Sunday you are to preach in the old Cathedral of Neuchatel. Is it so?"
               "Yes; the ecclesiastical council have propounded to me certain questions. They are intended as a test of my belief, and as I answer, so shall I stand or fall."
               "Be true to yourself" returned his friend, "and let consequences take care of themselves. I know you will meet whatever comes with manliness."
               "Amen," said the pastor. And they parted, each taking his own road, as the old clock, in the distant tower of the Abbey sounded the hour of midnight.
               In the meantime, during her son's long absence, Madame Renshawe was far from happy. The early evening meal had been dismissed; Thereta was busy with the closing cares of the day, and the mistress sat alone by the open door of her little parlor. Any one passing without, on the broad green common, and seeing this venerable lady seated beside the open door, while the fading rays of sunlight gilded the quaint gables of the old parsonage, and tinged with russet the ivied church-wall against which it nestled,—any one would have deemed this quiet and picturesque spot a home where contentment and love had their abode.
               But Madame Renshawe was not happy. Her peculiar temperament cut her off from the close companionship of friendship; her life had been one of devotion to principle and duty; but this does not always result in repose of mind, or harmony of feeling. And now that her son had become so pre-occupied, and wandered away so often, or sat brooding over his thoughts in the silence of his chamber, she was left too much alone with the heavy cares that pressed upon her.
               She was thinking over the troubles that had fallen upon her only child; the disaffection of his people; the melancholy that preyed upon him, seeming to have its root far deeper than this parish difficulty, to which he appeared comparatively indifferent. Could it be that he missed the companionship of the Abbe,—or was there some other friend at the Chateau.—dearer than that misguided man. A new light dawned upon her mind, accompanied by a dread that she had taken an undue responsibility in this matter.
               Thus she sat in the fading twilight, oppressed with painful thoughts and sad forebodings, when a step sounded on the pebbled walk, and lifting her eyes, to her astonishment she beheld the Mayor of Berne.
               Madame Renshawe was proud of this gentleman's acquaintance, holding him in high esteem in these aggressive times, as one of the staunch supporters of ancient doctrines; yet it must be confessed that his presence annoyed more than it gave her pleasure. His broad self-sufficiency, his patronizing condescension, did not suit her proud, testy humor. But she arose at once and invited him to enter.
               They were both of the old school,—the lady in her simple home quite as formal and stately as her dignified visiter. It would have been amusing to an observer to hear the elaborate expressions of courtesy which preceded seating themselves.
               When this was finally accomplished, Madame Renshawe called for lights, and the two were soon engaged in earnest conversation.
               The Mayor, after many compliments touching the beauty and completeness of this refined abode, and a lengthy criticism on the portrait of her honored husband, hanging upon the wall in front of him, inquired for her son. But as the pastor was not at home, he observed, somewhat uneasily, that he would leave his message with the excellent lady herself.
               "You are aware, dear Madame," said he, "that some ancient laws, now nearly obsolete, but still in existence, dating back to the time of the Prince-Bishop of Basle, oblige me, as chief officer of the city of Berne, to preside at the ecclesiastical council which holds spiritual jurisdiction over the section of country in which this parish is situated. Our duties in these circumstances are sometimes pleasurable, but oftener painful. We have to keep strict watch over the tendencies of the age—for there is a certain latitude, Madame, a certain latitude that is very reprehensible. I do not say this is the case with the honored pastor of Aesch; I will not advance any accusation; but, ahem! but there are rumors, numerous rumors, that must be attended to—it will not do to sow dissatisfaction among the people. We have had it in council of the excellent training of the youth, and that among mothers—excuse me, my dear Madame," he said with conciliatory emphasis," you have been a pattern—but tares have sprung up among the wheat, and it is these, Madame, that we must take action to crush, to totally eradicate."
               Had the good Mayor been an acute observer of human nature, he would have read in the changing aspect of his listener's face, the portents of a gathering storm. True, he had not said half the severe things of her son that she often said herself, but that was a very different case. A mother could say what she pleased of her own child, but no one else should dare to do the same.
               It required all her presence of mind to repress an outburst of anger. But the Mayor proceeded, perfectly unaware that he was causing any disturbance:
               "Yes, Madame, we must be severe; we are obliged to be severe, even though it costs us the sundering of our dearest friendships, when such heretical utterances are heralded even in this sacred spot, in this glorious field, where such men as Melancthon, Erasmus, Farrel, and a host of others, labored, aye, even died for the truth."
               "And may not this that my son utters be the truth, also?" said Madame Renshawe, with asperity. "To every soul comes its own conviction, now, as in the days of our fathers."
               These were strange words for the pastor's mother to utter—she, the powerful advocate of authority, the supporter of fixed and unchanging ideas. But she was under the influence of strong provocation, and that spirit of antagonism was aroused which often urges people unaware into strange situations. A train of thought had been started which brought her to conclusions that astonished herself; and when the Mayor remarked that, "those truths of which he spoke were undoubted truths—final, saving truths," she replied:
               "Can truth ever be final? Are there no farther discoveries to be made in this great element—or have we arrived at the end and aim of all knowledge?
               "Oh, ah,—no, Madame! Truly we are far from wisdom—that is, ah, most of us!"
               By which it is to be supposed he meant the general mass of mankind, but not the redoubtable Mayor of Berne.
               "And surely, Monsieur, you cannot say that these truths we now so revere were admitted as undoubted truths when first they were given to the world? No, they were denounced as lies. Men then as now thought that they were doing a righteous work in hunting down all that disturbed the accepted current of thought, or the established institutions. And may not my son," she added, with an air of authority, "be one of those favored instruments that do arise, that must arise, in the vast, revolving cycles of time, to strike out new paths, to be the pioneers in moral discoveries never to be attained by slower and inferior minds? Now, look to this, Monsieur, and do not make your sacrifice too soon."
               "Sacrifice, Madame? Why bless me!" The honest gentleman was puzzled; never very apt, he was sorely at fault here. He had studied his part well; he expected submission, and intended to be very lenient, but this proud woman was making him feel like the culprit himself. After a pause, which enabled him to collect his scattered senses, he added:
               "Why, Madame, I rather came to save. And what I would wish you to say to your son is, that if even now, at the eleventh hour, he should withdraw those offensive words, and manifest a true penitence, I will arrange it so that a public disclosure may be avoided. You understand me, Madame?"
               Madame understood him thoroughly. She thanked him for his consideration; but there was an irony in her tone, which fortunately her visiter did not comprehend.
               "Madame," said he, resolved on fulfilling his whole duty, "there are, as you are aware, other charges, slight, perhaps, in themselves, but, in connection with other things, of much importance. The unclerical conduct of the pastor has caused grave displeasure. He has been often met in wild, out-of-the-way places, spending his time in a profitless manner with paint and brushes, thereby neglecting his flock. His associations, also, are such as to cause great scandal. There is a certain Jesuitical priest, (I presume Madame knows to whom I allude,) with whom he holds an unpardonable intimacy; they being often seen in public together, sometimes even walking the streets arm in arm, which it must be confessed, has a very unseemly appearance."
               The Mayor now paused to recover breath; he was becoming very warm and excited. After he had regaled himself with a glass of water, the lady inquired if that were all he had to say.
               "All, Madame."
               "I shall report then, as you desire, to my son."
               "If you please, Madame, and I shall hope to hear from him immediately."
               The gentleman now rose to leave, and as the polite hostess was making her last courtesy, she said:
               "Monsieur, it has occurred to me, that if my son is not to be allowed to choose his own occupations, or select his own associates, the sooner he rids himself of such slavery, the better."
               "Madame, you astonish me! What does this mean?" cried the Mayor, who was just stepping out on the green, but returned, hat in hand, with a look of profound amazement.
               "Understand me, Monsieur, these are only my sentiments, not my son's. He shall be left by me to follow his own unbiased judgment. I shall tell him all that you have said."
               When her visiter was gone, and the perturbation of spirit consequent upon his presence had somewhat subsided, Madame Renshawe's well-trained conscience began to upbraid her for what she had done.
               Her clear memory brought every word she had uttered distinctly before her. Her passions were not of the kind to render reason subservient; anger, like all her other capacities, was balanced and self-possessed, without that connection with an inflamed imagination which sometimes drives people almost beyond their responsibility.
               This evening she had been farther astray from herself than she ever remembered being in all her past life, though lately she could recall many instances in which she had lost the self-control on which she prided herself. Perhaps she had never met with so much opposition as latterly, and having readily set aside all other wills, had not learned her true deficiencies. But to-night, what had she been doing? Vindicating sentiments that were abhorrent to her, standing up in rebellion against constituted authority! Surely the Evil One had taken possession of her! She had counselled her son to keep guard against the Enemy, but had forgotten that she herself might be in danger. She hastened to take down her good books, and read the strict lessons for the day. These somewhat comforted her, by bringing back her mind to the old channels; and now her endeavor must be to keep it there. And after her systematic habit, she marked down her rules of thought for the coming week; what her reading and reflections should be.
               She began to feel more secure; she had the reins in her hands and would keep them there,—at least she would try to do so. For she was beginning even to lose confidence in herself.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THE TRIAL.
               AROUND the ancient Gothic church on the heights of Neuchatel, on this summer sabbath morning, an unusual stir was visible, for it had gone abroad that the famous trial sermon of the pastor of the little parish of Aesch was to come off that day before the solemn ecclesiastical council of Berne.
               It was a season of great interest, and of course a laudable curiosity was altogether admissible, and even praiseworthy, considering the importance of the matter. Great numbers were therefore gathered together on the terrace in front of the old place, while still greater numbers were laboring up the steep ascent, even before the wide doors of the venerable pile were thrown open for their entrance.
               As might be presumed, where such a vast concourse congregated, many joined the throng that did not know why they were there; they had come because others came, and therefore had a great many questions to ask as to what this was all about. To their amazement they found that but few knew the real cause of the gathering. There was something wonderful, dreadful, alarming, but what that might be, was not altogether clear. The old people shook their heads, maintaining a perfect reticence, while the young people, ever flighty, had so much to see and gaze upon, that it could not be expected to get much information from them. One thing, however, was certain, every one present was in a state of intense expectation; little knots and groups were gathered together discussing every fresh arrival; and still watching, waiting for that which was yet to come.
               Finally, after a period of much suspense among the people, some carriages ascended the eminence, from which descended the grave dignitaries of the council, followed by the Mayor of Berne, whose ample presence gave token of the solemnity of the occasion. He was gracious, however, looking with calm benignity on all, and even on the young pastor, who just then appeared, to whom he offered his hand with a patronizing flourish, and introduced him to those grave judges, as though to say, "I can have an humble pity for even such as he."
               The wide doors were now thrown open and the anxious crowd gathered in, filling up the gloomy old building as it had not been filled in many years; even the aisles were occupied with spectators, while those prim, nigh-backed pews, from floor to gallery, were crowded with well-dressed gentlemen and ladies, the elite of the town and surrounding country. As the eye ranged around the edifice, from the dark stone floor to the heavy rafters above, taking in the grotesque imagery, the quaint carving, the brilliant throng, in their gay summer attire, and the varied expressions of the mass of humanity, it made a study that could not easily be forgotten, delighting the eye, and by its life and spirit, giving food for much deep thought. But at its best, this venerable pile was but a gloomy place, dark and sombre in the brightest day, with the occasional sunbeams struggling their way through the stained glass of the high, narrow windows.
               The young pastor, when he had traversed the broad side aisle, ascended the spiral steps that led to the little box of a pulpit, without looking either to the right or the left, and took his seat. There were whisperings about how very pale he appeared; indeed he was almost ghastly in his pallor, and various were the conjectures as to its cause. Helena heard some of them; for she too was there with the Lady Orilia and St. Olef, occupying one of the central seats, directly opposite the pulpit. Until the pastor came in, it had not occurred to her how conspicuous it was, and now she was greatly distressed, she would have given all she possessed to be any where else. Of course none of her trouble was that it might embarrass the pastor, she did not know that her presence would cost him a thought. It was of herself she was thinking, she had been mortified enough in the remembrance of her unsought betrayal of feelings, that evening, long ago it seemed now. She had wept with shame and bitterness at the thought of it. She had blushed with anger at her weak impulsiveness in being led into such mistake. And now to have placed herself there, right before him; she did not wish him even to know she was present, she had wanted to get into some back corner, but it was all St. Olef's fault, who was now her great tormentor, he would occupy that seat, and none else, even setting aside Lady Orilia's objections.
               And he would keep talking to her, and she wanted to think, and hear these remarks that were going on about the pastor. Some asked if he had been sick; others thought perhaps he was penitent, and troubled in mind. Doubtless his conscience smote him for putting forth such ungodly views. At a recent funeral he had been heard to say, that it was not by God's will that the child had perished! And to the children of the poor man that was killed in the mountain, he had said in his discourse that now they must unite and be strong in themselves, there was no one now to help them. How dangerous, to teach the young to trust in their own strength! "Well you see" said one, "what such doctrines have brought him to, now that he is left to himself; our pride is our destruction. The young man has been too much puffed up, and I hope this lesson may come with a saving grace."
               "Our pastor is not proud or puffed up," said a young girl, who had been an unwilling listener, and whose patience was tried beyond endurance. "No, he is not," she continued with spirit, "my papa knows he is not. You all mistake him,—don't they?" turning to the gentleman beside her. There was one there who heard her and blessed her, even though she supposed this must be Deputy Rochefort's daughter, and remembered with a sharp pang that rumor she had heard. She did not wonder that he should love such a frank, noble girl. St. Olef too had heard the loud whispers, and only smiled with a quiet contempt; he had tried to catch Helena's eye to see the effect these words had on her, but she persistently, kept her head down, to his great disappointment.
               But now there was a general hush; the pastor was about to rise. But before he does so, let us go back for a few hours, and relate the circumstances that had transpired—which may account for that extreme pallor of his countenance, and that indifference to his fate, so evident in his manner.
               On the previous evening, it may be recollected, he met Helena and St. Olef, returning from their walk. He was going into the town on some necessary business, but he could not go any farther; he at once turned and made his way home as quickly as possible, and entered the little parlor where his mother sat, in a tempest of passion and emotion. Lost to all self-control for a time, he beat his breast, and walked the floor, and sighed and groaned in unutterable anguish. He was conscious of his mother's terror; of her voice, as in agony of apprehension, she entreated to know what was the matter; but he could not speak, he could only continue his insane demonstration, till perfectly exhausted, he sank in a, chair, and covering his face with his hands, wept like a child.
               His mother tried to soothe him, and he laid his head on her breast so quiet and calm. The paroxysm was past, and reason returned, and strength with it, at length he said: "This is cruel to you, mother; it is selfish to distress you in this way."
               "Never mind, Rudolph, keep quiet dear boy, it will agitate you to speak."
               "No mother, I can command myself now, I am ashamed of my weakness, I ought to speak, and tell you everything." And then he sat by her side and told her all. How he had loved and hoped, and thought he had reason to hope, till that sudden rejection came. At least he understood it as such, by the repeated refusals to see him. "Helena is happy, mother, I saw it in her smiling face, as I passed her to-night, "he continued." It has been among the severest of my trials: that I should see her, so good, so pure attached to one of nature so base—one towards whom I feel a repugnance amounting to hatred, Yes," said the pastor, and his eye flashed fire as he spoke, "I hate him! To me he appears one of the most cold-blooded and heartless of villains. Yet now that I know the worst I will bear it better. It came on me so suddenly at first that it unmanned me. I was, indeed, a very child. But you will see no more exhibitions of this sort," he said with spirit; "I will now live for other objects, and you shall be chief among them, my own dear, good, devoted mother."
               How sweet it was to her heart to hear him talk thus, to have him open every thought to her. She had often in her secret soul lamented that this one dear object of her affections was so distant from her; he was all truthfulness and honor, but they were in some things as strangers, and she knew well the cause of this,—how in her self-determination, her strong-willed habit of thinking too much of her own rights—the parent's rights—she had forgotten the child's; how, by her restrictions, she had closed up every avenue of sympathy between them; all this she knew, and for sometime had been trying to remedy the evil, if it were not too late.
               But that other thought was a painful one; her suspicions were indeed verified. Yes, he did love this girl most devotedly. And did she also love him? She remembered the flush that suffused Helena's face at the mention of her son's name, and her great confusion of manner.
               How blind she had been! She had been the cause of all this anguish,—should she tell him, and have him hate her? Yes, she could even do this; but it was too late. Thus she sat with bowed head, taking in the full meaning of every word he uttered. And when he said, "Yes, mother, it has been, through all this, a source of comfort to me, that you knew so little of what I was enduring," she could scarcely keep from groaning aloud. Ah how little he knew of how she had sinned and suffered!
               This stately lady, so lofty in her principles, so strong in her rectitude, so dominant and commanding in her temper, was receiving some severe lessons in her old age; but these lessons had better be learned late than never. The book of human thought and experience was being opened before her, and she found how little she knew of its mysteries. Her sensibilities had never been of that acute description that respond readily to every change of feeling in others; she felt her own selfhood too distinctly. But now a shock had come which lowered her in her own estimation. She felt that she had done a serious injury to her son, and was desirous if possible to make reparation.
               As he continued to unfold his plans and to tell her what were his resolves—that he should give up his profession, and seek other means of livelihood, he was astonished to find that she listened so patiently. He had expected a great deal of opposition, and perhaps an arbitrary command to silence, but she only said quietly: "You can not be far astray, Rudolph, you that have been so well-instructed. The best of us may make mistakes; we may become careless—and perhaps you have been too much flattered and petted, my boy, and it has made you indifferent. You may not have kept up with the wants of your people."
               "You may," added his mother, in a conciliatory manner, "have forgotten, or overlooked, some of the necessary formula. It is necessary to keep the people well up in their articles of faith. I have some well-written documents, left by your honored father, they may assist you. There is time enough yet to-night—you can read them over, and if necessary take copious notes. The council will be lenient, I am sure; they are men of wisdom and consideration,"
               The young man could scarcely repress a smile.
               "But, mother," said he, "I told you I was going to give up preaching. And as to all the formulas and articles of faith, I can repeat them word for word, but that does not help me."
               "What, is it their spirit you lack? Then pray for it."
               "Why, mother, my life has lately been one long prayer; but still I am adrift."
               "What, then, is the matter?" she asked, in alarm. "Are you falling from grace, and becoming a scoffer and unbeliever? God help me!"
               "You need have no fears of that kind. I could not be either of these,—there is a vast difference between the one who questions and the one who denies. A scoffer I could never be; I utterly abhor the character: I thoroughly despise any one who could bring to ridicule the heart's sacred feelings, even though those feelings be conceived in the lowest ignorance. I would even respect the sincere conviction of the idolater, bowing before his senseless objects of worship."
               "Oh, my son! this is a dangerous latitude—it must not be indulged. We know not to what it might lead." She was getting a little peremptory again, but suddenly checked herself, saying: "It is now growing late; we must not unnecessarily prolong this matter. I have full trust in you, Rudolph, that you will keep to the right."
               In the excitement following the pastor's return, Madame Renshawe had quite forgotten to mention the Mayor's visit. She now repeated the message of that honorable gentleman.
               The pastor laughed almost gaily:
               "Well, well, mother," he said, "I believe it is time that you and I escaped this petty jurisdiction. We are rather beyond the age of school-children. Come, mother, help me with your strength—help me to assert my manhood."
               "I will:" she answered solemnly.
               "But, mother, it will involve leaving the old homestead,—and this has long made we hesitate. Can you bear the sacrifice?"
               Her proud head did not droop for an instant; only her hand trembled a little as she took his within it, and said:
               "Better than that you should sacrifice your principles, my dear boy, by trying to appear what you are not."
               With his whole soul he thanked her. "Now I am indeed free," he cried with enthusiasm. After a moment's pause, he added: "And now, mother, you will see me work with a spirit I have never worked with before. I will be myself, my own untrammeled self, and my labor shall all be for you. You shall be richer and happier than you ever were. You need not smile, mother; this is not all visionary. You know, even for years, my amusement has been to sketch and paint,—this has been one cause of complaint against me—but I have persevered. Friends encourage me, and one whom I think is a judge, says I am bound to excel. Now, don't you think this is something on which to build my hopes?"
               His mother, never very hopeful, still smiled incredulous. But she would not discourage him; others were always more sanguine, and judged him better than she ever did; of this she was aware, and it occurred to her it might be even so in this case. So she let him talk on of all his hopes and projects, and what he was going to do, happy to see him once more natural and interested, and only when it was far in the night, did she interrupt him. As she parted from him, she said, "In one thing I am fully resolved, come what will, to leave you at perfect liberty to follow your own unbiased course. My happiness is so inextricably involved in yours, that no matter in what circumstances I might be placed, I could not be satisfied if you were otherwise. So work out your own way, and may God bless you in it. You have my blessing, dear boy."
               Under all these exciting circumstances, need we be surprised that he looked pale and exhausted, when he ascended those narrow spiral steps, and seated himself in the little, quaint, box of a pulpit?
               But did he know who was so near him, sitting just below the pulpit? Not till he raised his eyes, as he stood up to give out the opening hymn. There she sat—the same image that was ever present to his soul, and St. Olef beside her.
               The shock was great, and for a moment it required all his force to brace himself against it, but he succeeded, and perhaps he felt stronger for it, to meet all those critical faces he had so dreaded. There was a sort of desperate recklessness in his feeling, and as he read on, in a loud, clear voice, those fine, inspiring lines, "Praise God from whom all blessings flow," no one would have dreamed of the inward battle that had been fought. As he sat down, the grand notes of the fine old organ began to swell and fill the vast space, and his soul rose with them. He felt above the little passions and triumphs of the hour, and he was ready at their close, to meet undisturbed the gaze of that vast throng before him.
               But before the pealing music had altogether died away, another flutter occurred that disturbed the general equanimity for a moment. There was a great stir, a rustling of silks, and wafting of perfumes, and Madame of Wolfden Abbey entered with Viola and the Count. They swept through the aisle, and seated themselves in the family pew. This was directly beneath where the Lady Orilia and her party sat, and Viola, in all the flush and flutter of her new circumstances, looked up with a bright blush on her beautiful face, when her eyes met those of St. Olef, with that reproving frown she knew so well. Instantly all her bright animation fled; she staggered forward, and would have fallen but for the strong arm of her mother, and the reproving voice that brought her at once to her recollection.
               The pastor was now standing up, and attention was of course directed to him. He had before him the voluminous questions on the different articles and beliefs of their common faith which it was expected he would answer. There was a hush over the assembly. He said: Perhaps it were as well under the circumstances, that he should be brief as possible, in regard to his views; he was a young man, and had too little experience to put himself forward as a teacher of new truths; and he was still too young a man to bind himself forever to the old ones.
               They were not, however, to understand that he discarded these old teachings, far from it; he accepted them as the opening way to other and still greater discoveries in truth. He could well imagine the sigh of relief, the uprising of an intense joy to the many hunted and harassed souls craving for light, yet fearing their own shadow, as they listened with glowing hearts to some new thought that offered a ray of hope to light their timid way from the old dogmas that bound them so sorely. "I understand all this," said the pastor, "and I understand that a time may again come, when still another change may be needed. There is nothing stationary here; as mind and thought develop into new channels, so do our conceptions and our necessities change. You will therefore perceive, with these ideas, I could not bind myself to any particular line of thoughts, and you could not accept me as a teacher, because I might not always teach you as you wish to be taught. So all that is left for me, is to bid you farewell,—a warm, affectionate farewell. I could preach to you forever of much in this life; of its beauties, and wonders, and capacities; I could preach to you of humanity; of all it might be and should be, and then I could preach to you of that one great power, the principle of love; not the mere human love, but that broad, universal, Infinite Love that reaches to life's utmost bounds, to actuate us in all our doings, to make us wiser, more just, more merciful and pitying. Why, my friends, I should never cease, did I follow wherever it might lead; it permeates all life, we might spend an existence in its study, and yet hardly reach its beginnings, far back beyond old creeds, or oldest doctrines. But this would not satisfy you, and again, and again, with the tenderest affection, I bid you farewell."
               There were many deep sobs heard in the silence that followed this announcement; for after all, they did love the pastor tor truly, and they were not prepared for this extremity. Even the Mayor, at the head of the council, who had fortified himself with an unusual amount of severity, began to show symptoms of uneasiness, and when in the last anthem the dying notes of the organ vibrated on the air, and many even wept aloud, then the ample folds of the great white handkerchief suddenly emerged from the breast-pocket, and a succession of trumpet sounds quite startled those in the vicinity. Was not the pastor almost as a son to him? He had always loved the lad; but duty, stern duty demanded a sacrifice:—and the handkerchief again was restored to its place, and once more he raised his head with a sense of strong reproval, and looked about him with his usual becoming 
                     digniiy
                     dignity
                  .
               The crowd was slowly departing. Helena with the Lady Orilia and their escort followed with the rest. Her great effort was to keep back those tell-tale tears.—How ill he looked—the pastor—surely he might die! And she felt in her heart that should this happen, even although he were wed to that fair girl who had so nobly vindicated him, she must die too.
               As they emerged on the bright green of the terrace, the sun shone forth brilliant enough to dispel all gloom. The gay carriage of the Count, glittering with its armorial bearings, just then drove by. Helena did not have an opportunity even to bow to Viola, whose eyes were eagerly fixed on St. Olef.—It was sad to see in the midst of all this attractive elegance and show, their anxious, half apologetic expression, as he raised his hat with a sort of reproving gravity to return her bow.
               The Mayor of Berne now approached, with his sister leaning on his strong arm. They had left their party, for the Mayor wished to have a little conversation with the Lady Orilia. Indeed, he seemed to embrace every favorable opportunity to effect this laudable object.
               And he was uneasy this morning; there had been an acceleration of feeling, a quickening of those calm pulses, that disturbed him, and he wished to have a little peaceful chat with his friend. Truly he found that her presence had always a very pleasing effect upon him. It diverted his thoughts from that great personage, "I," who generally absorbed his attention, and this in itself gave an agreeable variety to his sensations.
               Thus the party walked on slowly, till they reached the Chateau. They could not pass its hospitable doors without being urged to enter and rest during the heat of the day. There was no resisting an invitation from so delightful a hostess as the Lady Orilia had ever proved herself to be. And with this gallant remark the worthy Mayor and his sister entered.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               REJECTED.
               IT was a pleasant, social meal that the little party at the Chateau sat down to enjoy on that famous Sunday. The lady hostess was in fine spirits, diffusing a happy equilibrium among the guests who gathered about her table, by her cheerful manner and agreeable conversation.
               The Mayor, whose excellent physical condition enabled him to appreciate the good things of this life with much gusto, was also in a condition favorable to enjoyment.
               His sister, a maiden lady, Mademoiselle Duquot, a timid and taciturn personage, sat by his side, sheltering herself in the shadow of his greatness, and saying but little. She had been for so many years in the habit of deferring to her brother, that she did not care to think at all, and in fact began to doubt whether she had any right to do so; and if a question were asked her at any time, she would look up to him in the most perplexed manner, and leave the burden of answering it upon his broad shoulders.
               Of course the proceedings of the morning were fully discussed.
               The Mayor thought the discourse much too short and informal. He would have been glad to have it stated more distinctly exactly what the young man's opinions were.
               "The little he did say was very good, however,—don't you think so?" said Lady Orilia, turning to Mademoiselle Duquot.
               "Oh,—ah,—yes, certainly, certainly! I have no doubt—but, as my brother says, it was hardly sufficiently explicit."
               "Katrina, you are right," said her brother approvingly.
               The more substantial portion of the repast was drawing to a close; there was no hunger, no haste. The gentleman was merely enjoying his salad at leisure, so he could discuss the matter coolly and carefully.
               "Yes, Katrina, you are right," he repeated. It is not often you speak, but when you do, it is to the point. It was not sufficiently explicit, Explicit—yes, that is the word. I am sorry it was not; I am grieved it was not: there is nothing tangible to take hold of. I fear it will prove a difficult case. He spoke of resigning; but of course his resignation will not be accepted. It is clearly a case of discipline."
               "Why make it a case of discipline," asked Lady Orilia, "if there are no charges you can substantiate—if there are merely floating and imaginary difficulties. I do not know what the young man's ideas are at present; I have not spoken with him in a long time; but I have the highest opinion of his ability and truthfulness. You will be doing a wrong to his parish if you remove so competent a friend and leader on mere technical difficulties."
               "True, my good lady; you are right; we all admire him. He is an estimable son, a worthy member of society—in fact an exemplary man in every relation of life—but—but—"
               Here the Lady Orilia laughingly interrupted him:
               "Monsieur Mayor," said she, "do not use that uncomfortable word, 'but.' If he is all that you have named, he is good enough, surely."
               Our self-complacent Mayor was not prepared to receive the smiling rebuke in the same spirit in which it was given. He could give no answering smile; these were grave topics. And although he admired his fair antagonist in an uncommon degree, yet a frown gathered on his brow, for her remarks awakened former suspicions, slight in themselves, as to the soundness of her opinions on certain topics. He felt it to be his duty, yes, his conscientious duty, to show their enormity. First launching some severe remarks and sharp strictures, which, while they applied to no one in particular, might be felt by all who merited them, he returned with renewed zest to the obnoxious "but."
               "But, here lies the difficulty, my lady! Were he a bad man, an unworthy citizen, his words would pass unheeded. But, possessing so many estimable qualities, and endowed with such wonderful powers of persuasion—it will never do to encourage him. He must be silenced, put down, crushed! Rather cut off one member, than that all should perish."
               "Oh, Monsieur!"
               But he was not to be stopped, and his patient hostess thought it best to let him exhaust his flurry of indignation without farther remonstrance.
               One often feels more kindly disposed after berating a person, and the worthy Mayor, with all his fuss and furor, was at heart a tender and kindly individual.
               So he was permitted to talk, and threaten, and scold, till dinner was removed and the dessert and coffee had come and gone. One after another left the apartments, and finally the Mayor found himself alone with Lady Orilia.
               Gradually he had tempered down; his remarks had grown more gentle and considerate. Perceiving that they were alone, he even acknowledged that perhaps he had gone too far.
               "If so, Monsieur Mayor," said the lady, smiling graciously, "we will adjourn to my own little sitting-room; it is more comfortable, and we can then talk the matter over."
               
               Followed by her guest, she led the way to the cosiest little place imaginable, shaded from the afternoon sun by sweet-scented vines, whose delightful odor, wafted in through the open windows, filled the entire apartment. Seating himself in a most comfortable chair, with his hostess near at hand, the Mayor said benignly:
               "You must not suppose, my dear lady, that I have any unpleasant personal feeling toward this young man. I assure you I have not the slightest. I should be very happy to do him any favor in my power."
               "And your influence is great in certain quarters," pursued the lady, artfully, alluding to the chief officers of the parish of Aesch.
               "Ahem," said the mollified gentleman; "I believe—I have reason to believe—that my judgments, which are always carefully formed, are not without weight—not without weight!"
               "Ah, Monsieur, might you not avert the sad catastrophe—the final dismissal of the young pastor?"
               "My lady!" he exclaimed in alarm.
               "But might not these charges be inquired into. Perhaps they may prove not so bad, after all."
               "You don't know what you ask. We must nip these heresies in the bud; yes, in the bud; that is our only safety."
               "And must a few unpopular opinions weigh against life-long noble acts? Think of his many good qualities, and of his unaffected piety!"
               "Piety! My dear lady, with his heretical sentiments it is impossible."
               "Yes, Monsieur, piety. See it in his worship of the Infinite, in his devotion to his widowed mother, in his charity, his pity for the suffering, his self-renunciation, where his conscience deems that truth demands the sacrifice,"
               "You make out a very fair case, my dear friend," returned the Mayor, "and, indeed, there is some truth in it. To be candid with you, I do not myself so much care about these things, these differences of opinion, but there are the weak, you know, the babes, in knowledge—they must be sustained by holding sternly to fixed principles. But I will see what can be done; the young man is very dear to me—very dear." And the Mayor lapsed seemingly into dreamy reflection. Presently rousing himself, he said:
               "I have always been a strong advocate for principles; very severe and determined when they were involved. Can it be that I have been too much so?"
               The Lady Orilia hastened to answer the question which was puzzling the brain of her worth friend:
               "No, no, Monsieur Mayor, that can not be; we can hardly be too strong in our devotion to principles. But may we not sometimes be mistaken, and call that a principle, which is only the obstinacy of a vain, determined will?"
               "Ah, that may be so—that may be so! I have not reasoned with people—I have compelled people to do what I thought right. But somehow I have not gained in their esteem by it. They seem to avoid me; and I dislike to be avoided. You may not think it, but I want the good-will of those around me. I love some of them, and I wish to be loved also."
               Talking thus at random, looking down the while at the quiet lady on the low seat near by, the Mayor's eye caught the white ruffles so carefully laid across his broad chest; from thence his glance wandered to the ample folds of his capacious velvet vest, adorned with the heavy gold chain and seals; to his fine broadcloth, his well-fitting boots. "After all," he thought, well pleased with the survey, "the Mayor of Berne is rather an imposing personage!"
               Did she think so, the Lady Orilia? At least he was satisfied with himself and pleased with the quiet lady. He recalled her good influence on him, how always as now when he sat down to talk with her he felt more kindly disposed toward every one, and realized that it might be a greater happiness to lead and to help, than to scorn and crush the erring. Of all this he could not think, looking the while on her placid face, with its smooth dark skin and the braided hair,—for the quiet lady's eyes were still fixed thoughtfully upon the ground. But when she raised those lustrous orbs and looked directly at him, he could think of nothing else but their wondrous light. They fascinated him strangely. And yet what was it that was in them? Only the reflection of a soul holy and pure, strong, forgiving, pitying and loving.
               As the worthy Mayor surveyed her thus, a thought occurred to him; scarcely a new thought: it certainly had flashed upon his mind at intervals many times before, but had passed unspoken. Now he gave it utterance:
               "My dear Lady Orilia." The voice was so subdued, so unlike the round full tones of her pompous friend, that the lady looked up from her revery surprised.
               "I have been thinking, my dear lady," said he, gathering courage as he proceeded, "thinking that I should like to become a better man—a more forbearing and tender hearted one. I feel that you could help me to be such. I need a helping, womanly spirit to counsel me. Could you not be my counsellor—my wife—dear Lady Orilia?"
               The lady started, completely astonished. "Why, Monsieur, what is the matter? What have I done, to make you talk thus?"
               "Nothing, my lady."
               "Then why risk our friendship? We have known each other a long time, Monsieur, and I am so sorry that any thing should arise to interrupt our old friendly feeling. Oh, no, I can not—no, I can not become your wife!"
               "But it need not disturb our friendship, my lady," he answered in alarm. "I fancied it might be that I could make you happy," he said, almost timidly; "and I felt that I would be a great deal happier myself. But if it disturbs you, do not, I beg, entertain the thought."
               "But that is your mistake, Monsieur, to suppose that you would be happier; you could not be. You and I have been too long accustomed to our own independent modes of thought and action, to bear restraint. The young may grow together, and adapt themselves to each other's peculiarities, but the old can not do this, my friend. We have each of us so long sat in judgment on our own actions, that should some one come in now to dictate as to our friendships, our habits, our tastes, we certainly would rebel. Just think of it, Monsieur—would it not be dreadful?"
               "Most dreadful, dear Madame! You are right; you are always right. I have only looked upon one side."
               "Then we will dismiss the matter altogether?"
               "We will, my dear friend, we will."
               "And it will never be alluded to again?"
               "Never by me."
               "And Monsieur, we will be as we have ever been,—the same dear old friends,—esteeming and honoring each other for known truth and fidelity."
               "We will, my lady, we will."
               There was great danger of a return to the white handkerchief—with which all the drowzy after-dinner nappers in the still mansion would have been roused as by a trumpet blast; but fortunately the Mayor restrained his emotion and recovered his composure. And he and the Lady Orilia shook hands cordially upon their compact; after which they took a pleasant stroll upon the smooth-shaven lawn, and enjoyed the cool breeze from the lake, over whose quiet waters the descending sun shed its evening beauty.
               "May such be our closing brightness," said the Lady Orilia, thoughtfully, "clearer, serener to the last."
               "Amen!" responded the Mayor, in the full, clear tones of restored tranquility.
               Was it that some long-slumbering memories had been roused by this afternoon incident?—some old, sad memories, not yet blunted by time? The Lady Orilia was unusually silent and thoughtful all that evening. When Helena kissed her for good-night, there were tears in those usually calm eyes—marks of feeling and sorrow such as had not been seen in them for many, many years.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THE WIZARD'S DEN.
               WHEN St. Olef prepared to keep his appointment with Viola that Monday morning, a strange, contradictory spirit influenced him; not such as he might be supposed to experience when seeking an interview with one so beautiful, so fondly devoted to him. There was none of that ardor we are apt to suppose belongs to the young, when the wild impulses of the youthful blood coursing rapidly through the veins, drive them on to extremes. No, St. Olef had never been young in the sense of such follies. There was to be sure, a feeling of expectancy and of admiration, but that was tempered by so much of pride and defiance, and also a certain malignity, that the genuine sentiment was almost overwhelmed. When with her, he was not altogether insensible to the great charm of her loveliness; but absent, he could think over her beauty as well as her love with the calculating, cool deliberation of his nature.
               He had now come to a conclusion which in former times he had disputed—that Viola was really very beautiful. Every time he saw her now, in the splendor of dress, and the glitter and magnificence of her surroundings, he could not but admit that it had raised her charms to a transcendent loveliness. And he could not but own, that he felt somewhat of pride, and a sense of self-superiority, when he considered that the possessor of these unrivalled charms was so completely his willing slave. And when he remembered that the one he so hated,(and simply because he had patronized him,) who had made him feel, that although pre-eminent in all things—understanding, genius, personal appearance,—he was inferior through the mere accident of birth—that this man, Viola's lover, and truly an infatuated lover, lost in the enthusiasm of his admiration, was in reality not loved in return—it gratified his revengeful nature; a nature both proud and crafty, smarting under any humiliation, yet seeking other means to assert itself than less secretive and subtle tempers would have chosen. Diplomacy, secrecy, policy, and an artful gift of persuasion were the weapons with which St. Olef intended to win his way over all obstacles.
               Let the proud Count enjoy for a time the blandishments of love, the fancied sole possession of his lady's heart—a stronger hand would dethrone him before long.
               He thought of the haughty mother who was so honored by this alliance—reflected that this lady, so offensive to him, could humbly fawn and flatter; could call him an admirable young man! a wonderful young man! and beg the assistance of his profound abilities, though making him feel that it was as the mercenary, the useful tool he was needed—when he recalled all this, and remembered that now he had them all in his power—the fact that it was through Viola he gained this position, gave the poor girl a prominence it is feared she would not have had in any other way.
               But he was well aware that with all this certainty of Viola's devotion to him, he must be very cautious. True, her love for him had enlisted all the better part of her nature, her tenderness for his loneliness, without mother, sister, or friend—her pity for his suffering, and veneration for the nobility of a heart that could suffer the loss of health and strength in aid of the cause of an oppressed people—as well as her worship of his genius, his power, his admitted pre-eminence. Yet with all this in his favor, he felt that he must be cautious. There was another side to her character. He must not press it too much. She was timid to a fault, and through her fears—her strong dread of her mother, she might be urged into almost any extreme. But he would be prepared for this. And then the very small amount of sensibility he was blessed with was steeled against pity for all the young girl might suffer, when he remembered the momentary flutter of triumph in her beautiful countenance, at the eclat and novelty of her position. He could not forget this, nor forgive it: it was so insufferably weak! He did not love, and yet he was jealous of any preference or enjoyment apart from him-self. But this he excused to himself by his utter scorn of all weakness, and in this mood he almost felt to despise the innocent girl for her adoration of himself. How little she understood him! How different it was with Helena. She could discover the darker as well as the brighter side of his nature. He could not but respect the perception that made him weigh and guard his actions. Poor Viola, whom he felt he could twist and cause to act the part of a fool when he pleased, lowered very much in his estimation in this contrast with Helena. Still, he must be wary, and careful to keep his hold. It was sometimes more difficult to manage the unwise than the wise. One thing he resolved; come what might, he would retain that hold. This anchor he would have as a future safety.
               So he prepared himself carefully, and mounted his fine charger, bidding the ladies good-bye, as if starting for a mere country gallop. He told Guiseppe aside, however, that he possibly might not return that day; if he did, it would be late in the evening. And now that it was all, arranged, he rode off along the zig-zag mountain road, with his usual careless ease.
               In truth, as he advanced, he became more occupied with the question, how he should meet Viola's mother, in his after interview with her, than with any anxiety in regard to the daughter. The mother was a much more formidable character to manage. Poor Viola took all the trouble from him of thinking out his course, by assuming that she was the guilty party—her sensitive conscience accusing her of so much that was reprehensible. But with the elder lady it was different; he was not exactly decided in his own mind how to act toward her. Perhaps he had better wait events. He felt undecided whether to join with her in opposition to the others or not. Never before was he so much at fault. He had gone into this thing for the Count, but he saw difficulties now in the way—would she but set aside that gentleman, he would not hesitate;—he would at once become her champion, and take all the risks and responsibilities of leadership. But he did not suppose she would do that, as the great point of her ambition was to secure a connexion with this ancient branch of aristocracy. So with all these cross purposes, he was more perplexed than his wont. But as he was one of those fortunate beings who could bend circumstances to his will, he now cast these thoughts off his mind, and dashing boldly forward, soon entered the lonely thicket where Viola had told him he would find the narrow descending path leading to the half-subterranean cavern beneath.
               It was a wild, weird spot, this dark, isolated glen, walled up by overhanging rocks, haunted by shadows, and the poetry of deep, impenetrable silence. But St. Olef was not much troubled by poetic 
                     imagnings
                     imaginings
                  . He was impatient at being kept waiting in such a gloomy, dismal place, and half disposed to be vexed with the young lady for thus detaining him,
               But this detention was not poor Viola's fault; she was waiting in an agony of suspense for her mother to leave. She had been sitting all the morning with that lady, listening to her motherly strictures on her conduct, and to her instructions, almost endless, as to what she was to do and say as a betrothed bride. To all of which the girl listened with the most painful consciousness of her meanness, her deception, and yet feeling that she could not—she dare not assert herself.
               She thought of the miserable part she was playing toward the young Count, receiving his attentions, and yet so deliberately planning to evade them. Why could she not be just to him, just to herself, and at this very moment boldly avow to her mother, that she loved another? Oh, what a complication of misery it would save her from! Why could she not gather sufficient courage? Poor girl! the strength of her rectitude almost nerved her to brave all and speak. But she could not master her timid, shrinking nature, it was not perhaps altogether fear, for she could face a danger, but it was an inexplicable weakness, a sensitiveness, that had woven itself into every fibre of her being, from childhood to youth, from youth to womanhood, till it had become a part of herself, and no reasoning could overcome its influence. All that she could do, was to silence her agonized conscience,—she would wait,—wait a little longer, perhaps she might yet gain courage to speak. She pitied the Count; she knew what it was to love, and she well knew that he loved her. Beside, he was so kind, so gentle and indulgent, she had pleasure in his society; she had not that fear of offending him that she had with St. Olef. But she loved St. Olef; and her imagination carried her away to dreamland, thinking of his perfections, and of what she would endure for his sake, and only be happy in the sacrifice of every thing for his good. But still her mother lingered, and the fear that she might not go, and St. Olef be kept waiting in a torture of suspense, caused the minutes to expand to what seemed an hour of time.
               But at last the mother departed. Viola did not lose one moment, but ran, or rather flew along the garden path, through the wood, down the precipitous road, and the bleak, lonely by-way, till she approached the shadowy, narrow glen. The noonday sun poured down its brightest beams as she left her upland home: but in this deep valley, so densely shaded by straggling fir trees and impenetrable rocks, the air was cold and damp, and the poor girl actually shivered, as turning an angle she met her lover.
               We are apt to think that where there is great penitence, the guilt must have been proportionately great, forgetting that natures are differently constituted, and that an excised imagination may magnify the merest trifle into a sin, and exact penance therefor.
               Viola, in her sensitiveness, felt that she had wronged every body, while St. Olef considered himself the only one wronged, and was in no gracious temper to receive the excuses that she rendered for keeping him waiting. She assured him that she could not prevent the delay; ah, that she could! Ah, that she might be always near him! But he maintained his usual calm, reproving manner, knowing well how it distressed her, and how sorely her young heart ached for a little sympathy and tenderness.
               She begged him to remember that although she was so much to blame, she had so much to bear! Would he not forgive her that for even a moment she had appeared recreant to his love? It was in appearance only; she was utterly unconscious of it. She could only reiterate that she loathed the position into which she was forced, and she loathed herself for submitting to it. Yet she dared not suggest that her lover should help her out of this direful strait. Dark hints as to what the consequences might be should she disclose what had passed between them, set a seal upon her lips.
               Altogether it was a most unsatisfactory meeting, especially to St. Olef. He had no sympathy with her terrors, and soon tired of soothing and reassuring her, even although it did make the confiding girl for a brief moment supremely happy.
               At length they parted, Viola not daring to stay longer. This clandestine meeting had unnerved her; she did not intend to do wrong, yet she was conscious that she was returning to her home like some guilty creature.
               St. Olef, taking a circuitous route, and refreshing himself at a small mountain inn with a good dinner and bottle of wine, rode leisurely on, and arrived at the front entrance of the Abbey in good season to meet his appointment with the mistress of the mansion.
               As he had expected, his brief interview with Madame did not serve to weaken her interest in the Count. She would not accept the suggestion, very cautiously given, that the latter should be thrown out. She was willing to supersede his authority, to render his influence nugatory, but he was useful, he was noble, she could not do without him.
               St. Olef had premised opposition, and he did not betray his incensed feelings, But shortly after the Count's arrival, he excused himself and withdrew.
               He was not in the best of humors as he rode homeward, so much earlier than he expected. It seemed as if he were beset by failure. Still he was strong and undaunted; he was not one to be stayed by obstacles. As he road on in the summer twilight, the marked compression of his brow indicated intense thought, and the hard, strange expression of his face had scarcely been banished, when he approached the Chateau. Helena met him on the lawn, with restored good-humor. It was against her nature to retain sullen and unpleasant feelings for any length of time. After a little pleasant talk he turned into the house, and called to Guiseppe to follow. It would seem that this summons was quite unexpected, for the servant opened his master's door in some trepidation.
               But this was unnoticed by St. Olef, who was usually quick to observe any change; either he was too much pre-occupied, or the gathering darkness obscured his vision. Entering, he closed the door behind him, and then fastened it, saying to Guiseppe, "There are some matters I want to talk with you about; they are of the utmost moment, and we must be secure from interruption."
               Guiseppe was now in a terrible strait; he knew that Ursula was secreted near them, where she could hear every word. He had persuaded the girl, as his master was out, to come to his rooms, where they could have a pleasant hour's chat together. And see what had come of it! Oh, what an unfortunate fellow he was! He had hurried her into a little recess or closet, where the only outlet to the court was barred on the outside. What should he do? He made all manner of excuses. Would not Signor delay this communication till after the evening meal? Had he not better bring a light! Finally, he suggested that he thought the Lady Orilia wanted him.
               But his stratagems were of no avail; St. Olef must have his first attention; terrible thoughts were on his mind, he must give vent to his schemes then and there.
               With the reluctant Guiseppe beside him, he sat down and detailed a certain plan which he desired the young man to carry out. Every word was distinct; there was no attempt to approach the matter in an ambiguous way. Such and such was to be done, and Guiseppe was to do it.
               Guiseppe, listening with a beating heart, had tried by every means in his power, to interrupt this disclosure, but in vain; he had pleaded faintness, and requested that he might go out into the open air, but without effect. His master finished his recital, so completely absorbed in what he was saying, that his usual caution was not aroused by these symptoms of uneasiness.
               He then ordered Guiseppe to bring in lights, and dressing himself at leisure, prepared to spend the evening with the ladies.
               As soon as his master departed for the drawing-room, Guiseppe hastened to release the terrified Ursula.
               St. Olef had never been more brilliant and fascinating than on this evening. He was generally too indifferent to make exertions to please. But to-night he used his rare powers of entertaining and interesting with most happy effect.
               His growing partiality for Helena, was evident on this evening even beyond what he wished to appear. This feeling was a mystery even to himself; he was astonished that he could not shake it off. It was altogether a new phase in his experience. Never before had he known love, or friendship, or intimacy that he could not throw off at any moment, if they interfered with his purposes.
               Not that he thought Helena so beautiful, so wise, so superior to all others. But she had penetrated nearer; had stirred pulsations akin to tenderness, had roused the lingering better feelings of his nature, as none had ever done before, and the novelty had its charm. This feeling had kept growing and strengthening, although 
                     he he
                     he
                   was assured that she did not care in the least for him, and although he felt a secret conviction that she loved another.
               But he was possessed with such a dogged, determined perseverance (a splendid attribute in a good cause, but a fearful one in a bad) that, once having aimed at an object, he could not, or would not, ever give it up. Opposition or obstacle only strengthened his purpose.
               He had felt from the first that the pastor was in his way. He had watched him closely, and his suspicions had been confirmed. But the sudden cessation of the pastor's visits to the house, and the fact that his name was never mentioned by any of its inmates, had somewhat stimulated his hopes, and he had used his utmost endeavors to please, well aware that Helena was ignorant of what had transpired between Viola and himself.
               He hated the pastor; he hated him for loving Helena; for the look of despair in his face that Sunday at the Cathedral—a look which his penetration had not failed to ascribe to its true cause—and he hated him for the tears in Helena's eyes that day, which he also keenly understood.
               He brooded over this hatred when alone. His was not a passive sentiment of dislike, that would endure quietly. When alone with his thoughts, the hard, compressed look upon his face was significant of active rage and enmity only waiting its opportunity to fall upon its victim.
               But when with the ladies in the drawing-room, as now, the fair brow displayed not a line or furrow; the light silky hair lay brightly on his high, narrow head, and the fine features glowed with expression and dignity as he conversed in animated tones with the charmed group that surrounded him.
               Little did any present that evening dream of what was passing in the mind of the fascinating young gentleman. How agreeable he was! How charmed they were—especially the new arrival of young ladies to whom he devoted special attention. And his genial manner was so unexpected. Some had seen, and many had heard so much of his superciliousness, his indifference, his haughty bearing, that they were agreeably surprised by his sociability.
               Old Madame Ponson, who was one of the guests, was quite triumphant. Had she not told them so? The good lady had always been his warm advocate; he had won her kind hearts everlasting gratitude by allowing her to be of service to him. Had she not on the first evening of his arrival, an invalid and a stranger, had she not befriended and cheered him? She could not help looking lightly upon his faults, and feeling toward him as though he were a son. She knew there was neither arrogance nor pride about him—she had always told them so!
               The evening proved an exceedingly pleasant one.
               After the guests had all retired, Lady Orilia took St. Olef aside, and informed him she had that day received letters from Italy. "My father writes," she said, "that he thinks of taking a trip to Switzerland. He is anxious about you, Monsieur—he is afraid you are not so well as I assert, or you would be returning to your regiment."
               St. Olef replied that he would write immediately, and tell the General that he intended to take a run into Italy in the course of the following week. It had been his intention to do so before, but his kind hostess had been too indulgent and had made his visit too delightful, and himself too indolent. He would delay no longer. Yet he was not through with his happy visit to Switzerland, and hoped to return very shortly.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE UNDERCURRENT.
               THE little Inn, or place of public entertainment outside the gates of Neuchatel, so long a drowsy, quiet little nook, half hidden in the recesses of the Jura, enlivened with only an occasional call from some dusty wayfarer, or, of an evening, by a few mechanics or laborers from the farms around, who dropped in to smoke their pipes, and drink the thin wines of their own vintages, had suddenly changed its quiet routine.
               All was now hurry and bustle about the place. Throughout the day many were coming and going, and in the evening, the tap-room and other rooms would fill up with the working men from the town, artizans and mechanics of all kinds, with many from the country and surrounding villages.
               They seemed to have some purpose in thus gathering together, other than that of mere present enjoyment, for they were earnest and full of eager talk, and would smoke their pipes and sip their wine until late in the night.
               Another change was observable also; formerly on warm summer evenings, the guests, or stray travellers stopping for the night, would turn out on the porch, or loll upon the short-clipped grass, and continue their disputes or cheerful talk, with loud voices, not caring if all the world should hear. But now they remained within, and lowered their voices to whispers, and none were admitted unless they could give certain words or signs.
               Their discussions were not such as formerly entertained them, concerning the skill of the manufactures of their workshops, the new inventions and discoveries that were being made, of the crops, the vintage, their wine, or even of the sports of their country, their ball-matches, their mountain climbers, and their wrestlers; which used to afford abundant material for different views, and for a never ceasing wordy warfare. These topics had suddenly lost their interest. The one theme of their conversation was not to be spoken aloud.
               Of course these absences from home, accompanied as they were with late hours and secrecy, caused much anger and discord among wives and kinsfolk, and there ensued quarrelings and upbraidings, with all the bitterness and heart-burnings that follow, till the little town of Neuchatel, usually so peaceful and orderly, became, as it were, one capacious furnace of family discord.
               Among these disturbed homes there was none more conspicuous than that of Francois and Annette, the father and mother of our lively little Bertha, the chaperon of St. Olef, on his first visit to Neuchatel, and who, it will be remembered, after-wards so gracefully introduced him to papa and mamma, at her home in the little back street of the town. Perhaps, too, in her way, there was none who had more consciousness of this unhappiness than her self.
               Francois and his wife, the pretty pale Annette, were fully occupied with these jars and petty quarrels; but Bertha could only hear, and fret her little heart, and wonder what it was all about, and remember the time when she used to so long for merry papa to come home. Such fun as they used to have at their nice supper, and playing with baby afterward! that was so pleasant!
               But now mamma was always cross, and papa would hurry through his supper, and away he would go, never seeming to heed baby's little tricks: and they were so lonely, and mamma so sad. And when morning came, papa would look so dull, and mamma would speak rude words to papa, and that would make little Bertha angry, for she could not bear a word said against papa, or baby, they were her very idols: but her mamma would still scold, and she would say, "Oh, mamma don't, papa will be good!" The hearty laugh of her father at this would sound so nice, and he would give her such a hug and kiss, calling her his little hero, that she would forget her troubles for a time. She was an indulged, saucy little things, but not spoiled. Her innocent, artless nature could not be spoiled. But the impatient word would come again; her mother would complain and say that once she used to have nice little treats, that papa would take her and the little ones to the gardens of an evening, or to walk in the square, but now he did not care for them! Now he never brought home the nice little relish for their supper. Oh, no, he had no money now, he spent it all at the tavern! So she unwisely kept on, till the face of the erring husband began to scowl, and the rough countenance, once so frank and good-humored, would sometimes assume a look of ferocity, and he would rise from the table with a coarse oath, and rush from the house. Then little Bertha would twine her arm around her mother's neck, and they would both weep together.
               Alas! this was too much their daily routine now. The quarrel of the morning would be renewed in the evening. The imprudent Annette would not refrain when strangers were by. She would bring on her complaints and upbraidings in their presence, she would denounce him before Guiseppe, who was often there now.
               St. Olef had brought him and introduced them to Francois. They became quite intimate after this, and he would often come: and take supper with them, and they would go and spend the evenings together. Francois was charmed with his urbanity and intelligence. Guiseppe had seen so much of life, and had served in so many capacities, that the honest fellow could sit for hours, entertained with the many strange stories and various scenes he related.
               After a time, it so happened that Guiseppe would also come in the morning, when Annette was alone. He dropped in for a few minutes at first, perhaps on his way to perform an errand. His stay was very short, but he always had something nice with him; perhaps a flower, or fruit, or a toy he had made for baby. In a little while he prolonged his stay, he was through with all his business, there was nothing to hurry him away. He would sympathize with Annette, lamenting that she was so confined to her home; he was sorry to see her obliged to work so hard, and be shut up always. It ought not to be permitted; it was the cause of her paleness and low spirits. Ursula had told him that she used to be so handsome, with cheeks like roses. But he thought her handsome still, she was so bright, and possessed that indescribable expression of beauty which does not belong merely to health.
               All this, and a great deal more, he told the simple-minded woman; and so artfully did he tell it, in connection with praises of her husband, and eulogiums on the baby, that the poor, foolish Annette thought they had never before met with such a friend, and that she could not be kind enough to one so disinterested in his attentions.
               In truth he did add much to the pleasantness of her life. She grew happier, less irritable, and improved in every way. At times he brought Ursula with him. She was much younger than Annette, but they had lived near each other in former times, and this reunion brought up so many reminiscences of when Annette was the belle of the little community, that she was gratified to renew the acquaintance.
               The sharp little Bertha was not pleased with Guiseppe at first. She was rather shy of him. But by degrees she became reconciled. She was a free scholar of the Lady Orilia's and one of her brightest pupils, and when she would, on returning home from school, see her mother looking so bright again, and Guiseppe sitting near her, with the baby on his knee, she unconsciously learned to associate pleasant thoughts with him, and finally became quite his friend. She had a great deal to tell her father in the evening of what Guiseppe did and said, and what a nice person he was. But his greatest achievement, in her eyes, was a little carriage which he made for her baby brother. It was one of her greatest delights, of a warm afternoon, to take the little fellow out and ride him round in this miniature vehicle.
               Altogether there was much improvement in her home; less quarreling and more cheerfulness; and Guiseppe was naturally connected in her mind with this pleasant change.
               But, although this good feeling on her part grew in a great measure out of his attentions to the wonderful "baby Louey," yet it was through the same source that she came to have far other feelings toward her mother's friend. She began to notice, with her usual quickness, that if she happened to bring baby in too soon, Guiseppe would frown upon it; or if the child was tired, and fretted, and the mother kept it in the house, then the young man looked annoyed and angry. At first she did not understand this; she could not comprehend how Louey could be disagreeable to any body. But when her little mind did realize it, and felt that the angry glances were really directed to the baby, then she went into a perfect fury; she felt that she would like to tear him in pieces.
               Poor baby was in the way! Of that Bertha became convinced, although how it could possibly be so, remained an impenetrable mystery to her mind. She resolved that if he should touch Louey, or shake him, as she sometimes fancied him ready to do, she would strike him, throw things at him—do something dreadful, yes, that she would!
               Oh, she hated him!
               Still Guiseppe dandled the baby, while her mother would sew, and they would talk and laugh, and Ursula would come in, and they would have real merry times together. But the little maid was not to be deceived; she had watched Guiseppe so closely, had learned so well to read his countenance, and to shrink, sometimes, from his glance, that her little heart was never at rest. She longed to take the baby from him—to stamp her little feet, and shake her little fist at him—but she did not dare. And who would have heeded her childish vengeance? She could only feel; it required more knowledge than the little Bertha yet possessed to analyze the cause of this feeling, and why she experienced this antipathy toward their favored guest.
               One evening after her father came home to supper, the meal was unaccountably delayed. He inquired why they waited, when his wife-replied with much hesitation, that Guiseppe would be there.
               "And who told you that he would be here?" inquired her husband, looking up surprised, her hesitating manner having attracted his attention.
               "Ursula was here to-day," she answered, "and she told me Guiseppe would be in this evening to supper. He wants you to go with him early to some great meeting."
               "Ah, yes," said her husband, "I had forgotten!" and added jocosely: "How is it about Ursula? I begin to fear there is some love-sickness there; she has been looking so thoughtful, melancholy, and all sorts of ways, lately. I could not but notice the other night how ill she looked, and how she kept her eyes fixed on Guiseppe. I do think, Annette," he added with seriousness, "that you ought to speak with the girl, and warn her to look out for these foreigners—they are not to be trusted. And I find Guiseppe is considered a great gallant among the girls."
               He did not notice his wife's rising color, for Bertha took his attention by exclaiming: "Oh, papa, you ought to have seen Ursula to-day—she cried nearly all the time she was here!"
               "Why, what was the matter?"
               "Oh, nothing!" said Annette, hastily.
               "I think there was, mamma," broke in the talkative little Bertha, looking very wise. "I think it was because she hates Guiseppe—and I do to—I hate Guiseppe, papa!"
               At this childish outburst the father laughed heartily. The connection of Ursula's feelings with her own, and her apparent satisfaction at the discovery, was amusing.
               "Well done, my little Bertha!" he said. "So you think Ursula hates Guiseppe?"
               Her mother now spoke reprovingly: "I declare, Francois, you will ruin that child,—she is now so pert I do not know what to do with her!"
               The rebuke restored the good-humored but injudicious Francois to something like propriety. He told Bertha that it was a very wicked thing, to hate any one; she must be a right-minded little girl, and love every body. "I thought you loved Monsieur St. Olef, and if you love the master, you must love the man, you know."
               
               The little girl's eyes brightened as she exclaimed: "Oh, yes! yes, papa, I do love Monsieur St. Olef, and I love old Madame Ponson!"
               "But you have not told me why you hate our friend Guiseppe."
               "Because he hates our baby Louey!" she replied vehemently, and the blood rushed scarlet to her animated face.
               "Why, Bertha!" both parents exclaimed in astonishment.
               "Are you not ashamed," said her mother, "to talk in that way? Did not Guiseppe make baby a beautiful carriage? You are a naughty, ungrateful girl, we will not allow you to come to the table tonight."
               So Bertha sat aside in disgrace as Guiseppe entered, all smiles and urbanity, receiving a hearty welcome.
               Poor Bertha slunk back, feeling she had perhaps been very bad, but not altogether sure. But when Guiseppe brought out of his pocket a beautiful whistle for Louey, she was fully convicted as to her wickedness.
               Those at the table did not heed her disgrace. They were very jovial, and enjoyed their omelet and salad, brown bread and milk, with exceeding zest. There were many allusions to Ursula by the host, accompanied by meaning glances toward Guiseppe, who received them with an innocent air, which called forth more wise looks from Francois, who said with a gay nod to his wife:
               "We know all about that, don't we, Annette?"
               When they rose to leave, Annette followed them to the door, bidding Guiseppe a smiling good-night, and the young men set out for their destination in excellent spirits.
               They were bound for the inn we have described as situated just outside the town. It was still early when they arrived. On entering the large room to the right of the bar, they found a few persons seated beside the small tables which were ranged along the whitewashed wall. The room was large, airy, and well-lighted, and with its neatly sanded floor, looked bright and cheerful.
               Guiseppe and his companion seemed well known to all present, and after a few moments of general conversation, they took possession of one of the tables. On being seated, Guiseppe called for pipes and a bottle of wine, or, if his young friend Francois would prefer, some of that fine old cogniac they had been regaled with before. Francois certainly did prefer the more powerful stimulant; and Guiseppe remarked merrily, "Wine may do with our dinners or our suppers; but give me good old brandy for an evening's, enjoyment!" He heartily invited all present to drink to their lasting good-fellowship. The fresh arrivals were invited to partake, and more bottles were called for; but those that began first had had quite enough; it was not his purpose to have any intoxication, only elation. By this time crowds were rushing in, and Guiseppe was the "good fellow well met," with all of them. He was all frankness and friendliness, and managed them all in his own way.
               The rooms were, indeed, now filling to their utmost capacity with artizans and mechanics from the town and neighboring country, looking hardy and comfortable in homespun suits of stout cloth. There were present also, many farm-laborers and small master-farmers, in blue smock frocks, and leather caps, with stout woolen leggins and thick country brogans. Many had come quite a distance, from the valleys of the Jura, and its mountain sides. Stalwart, rough men were they all, but orderly and well-behaved. They had come for a purpose, and they wanted to understand more about it. Guiseppe went among them all, explaining and preparing for his master, who ere long appeared.
               When St. Olef entered among these hardy specimens of humanity, the contrast between them was very striking. He seemed one of a different order of beings, and with a natural recognition of superior claims, they all uncovered their heads as he entered. His grace, his elegance of action, his fair, clear complexion, his refinement and fastidious tidious delicacy, were to these untutored men, all evidences of his superiority, and marked him as above them. His condescension and concealment of his real feelings, which were anything but kindness and sympathy toward their class, so completely misled them, that they were ready to give the utmost deference to all he said.
               He commenced his remarks by saying that he supposed they all knew why he had come there to talk with them. That he wished to show them the best way to ameliorate their present condition, and to make for themselves and their families a future worthy of all. They knew that money, intelligence, and the best minds of the country were engaged in this work; that they were willing to risk their all, their names, their property and perchance their lives for the general good, "And all they ask of you," he continued, warming to his theme, "is your strength, your muscle; the will and power of those brawny, hard-working arms. Is that too much for this sacrifice?"
               "No, No!" was shouted from all parts of the room.
               "And this we must have—this bone and muscle," he added with artful plausibility, "it is as much to be honored, and is as great a necessity, as their millions of money, their blood and ancestry, and it must and shall make its way."
               This was followed by tremendous cheering, and cries of "Go on!" When the noise had subsided, he continued with energy, "You must and shall have your reward. My life will be the pledge that you shall have it."
               He then told them, as they well knew, that their state, while they were the lawful subjects of the king of Prussia, had joined the Swiss confederacy, "And who," he demanded, "are responsible for this? Why, those artful, designing men, who desire to place themselves at the head of the government. And how does it serve you? By giving you two governments to support. Nearly one fourth of the revenues of your state go to the king of Prussia, and the remainder to your self-constituted diet."
               "For shame, for shame!" was cried on every side.
               "And on whom does this burden of taxation fall severest? On the poor working man, the herdsman, the farmer, the mechanic! Yes, it seems like the moulding of their flesh and blood into coin to support an inflated, boastful class of luxurious paupers! Now, I say, if the king of Prussia has your money, let him care for you. Let him support you in your rights. Throw off one yoke or the other, and do not be hedged in and bound on every side."
               "You are right!" was now the cry, "we must have justice."
               "And where these office-seekers have placed you, dare they turn their eyes to the point of the sword that is suspended over you? Dare they contradict me, when I tell you that at any moment your homes may be swept from you—the blood of your wives and children be spilled—your own lives sacrificed? They know they have placed you as in open rebellion to your lawful ruler, and that he has the right to destroy you when he will."
               This was the dark side of the picture, and filled their sturdy countenances with terror; they had not known or thought of it in this light, and yet such was certainly the fact.
               St. Olef now paused; he could read their eager countenances; he saw he had made a point, and he delayed an instant, that its importance might be thoroughly established.
               Then he told them with great seriousness, to look well to this matter, to face the danger like men, and view it on its every side. Not only for themselves must they think, but for all dependent on them, their aged fathers and mothers, their wives and children; aye, even the whole community now resting blindly in their fancied security; they must think promptly how to avert this threatening ruin!
               "And, my friends," he now repeated, with a burst of fervent eloquence, "you can, you will avert this calamity, by throwing yourselves without a moment's delay, on the mercy of a benignant prince, renewing newing your oaths of allegiance, and calling on his powerful protection."
               Changing his tone, and with an expression of scorn on his handsome countenance he asked, "And what do these vainglorious self-styled Republicans offer you? Equal rights! Yes, the right to work,—to plod on. They can give no rewards, no emoluments; they have not the power."
               "You are right there!" cried many voices, especially of those who had partaken of hot drinks on entering the tavern. "You are right."
               "Yes, I am right," he repeated. "And compare this Republicanism with the grandeur and power of the kingly authority! The word or smile of your sovereign can confer lasting honors, that will belong to you, and descend to your children after you. He can open new avenues of wealth and distinction—can create titles—give royal grants—aye, even a star or ribbon from his royal hands will ensure you fame, respect and deference wherever you may go.
               "Think well of these things, and make your choice. Think, all of you who have a noble ambition, and choose between a plain mediocrity, a slavish life of toil and poverty, and a life that may lead onward to eminence, renown, and future fame. Yes, hasten to be first to own this just allegiance, and receive the first reward. In this cause there is no danger of failure, right must ever prevail."
               Here he closed, and left the inn amid a shower of applause. But Guiseppe remained to tell of all the deeds this wonderful young orator had performed. Of his bravery, his valor; of the sacrifices he was making; of the risks he ran, and all this that they, as men, should obtain their rights.
               "How," he asked, "are we to judge between a righteous movement and an evil and spurious one? By observing if such men as St. Olef will sacrifice themselves; that will prove the righteousness of the cause! What can you offer him that he has not already? Wealth, honor. love—all these he possesses. But you can give him that which he most craves—the right to serve you."
               Tremendous excitement followed Guiseppe's effort at the stump, and bottles of wine and brandy were freely circulated. After imbibing these stimulants, the greater portion of the company rushed eagerly to take upon themselves the desired pledge of allegiance. The few who still wavered were borne on by the pressure of those around them, led by that strange impetus to do what the majority are doing, which characterizes poor humanity.
               Francois was afflicted with a severe headache the next morning, and grumbled because he had to go to work. He was getting tired of this, he said to Annette. "Work, work, what would not a man do, rather than be tied down in this way?" But Annette was in quite a hopeful mood, and laughed at Francois, as she said:
               "You know we are beginning to save a little—we may have the garden and the little cottage by the time Bertha is grown up."
               "Poh, poh," said the impatient young man, "that is all nonsense! I want something quicker than that. I should think you would know better than to be repeating such stuff!" And off he went, out of temper, and disposed to be angry with every body and every thing.
               Not so with little Bertha. She woke up bright as a lark, singing and merry. She had forgotten her troubles, and her one antipathy, and that there was such a person in the world as that hated Guiseppe. The morning was so sunny, and the baby so merry! It was just one scene of sport till the school-bell rang, and then she must tear herself away, and "run as fast as ever she could," to be in time.
               All day her happiness continued; her own little bounding heart and merry eyes reflecting joy on all. Every one was so good; and the Lady Orilia had been in, and had kissed her, and stroked back those unruly curls from her forehead, and had asked her so many kind questions about Louey, and laughed so pleasantly when she related some of his cunning baby tricks,—altogether it was one of her very best days, Bertha thought. Home she ran after school was dismissed, in haste to tell her mother all the pleasant events, of the day.
               But alas! as she turned, eager and breathless, into the little back street, she ran against some one in her headlong speed, and looking up, beheld her tormentor, Guiseppe! There he stood at her very door again. And before the house, tied to a post, waited a horse and a pretty caleche; in the caleche sat Ursula. Bertha heard her mother's voice calling her, and hurried in. She was told to take the baby quickly while her mother made herself ready for a ride. While Annette arrayed herself in the adjoining room, the innocent Bertha in great haste put on Louey's little hat and cloak, and in a short space of time had him ready, thinking as a matter of course he must be going with his mamma. Taking the stout little fellow into her arms, she with much difficulty carried him outside, saying, "Here, Ursula, here is Louey!" when Guiseppe, stepping quickly forward, pushed her rudely aside, exclaiming, "What do you mean? Take the brat away—take him this moment!"
               Bertha was so bewildered, and so filled with astonishment, that when her mother came out, ready for her drive, and gave her many directions what to do with Louey till she returned, the child could not say a word. When they were gone she fell into a passion of weeping that somewhat relieved her feelings. Her tongue was then loosened, and she repeated to herself: "He called my baby brother a bad name, and I hate him! I will tear him to pieces!"
               On her mother's return she related the whole matter to her, repeating again and again how she hated Guiseppe, till her mother scolded, and bade her be quiet.
               But still the little maiden stormed, and finally she was punished severely—something new for Bertha—and sent to bed in disgrace.
               In the morning little Bertha waked up with a terrible headache. She tried to getup, but it throbbed so, and was so dizzy, that she was obliged to lie back again on the pillow. When her mother came in she found the child in a hot fever. At length, however, Bertha fell asleep again, and did not awaken till the clutter of wheels in the narrow street roused her suddenly.
               "What is that noise?" she asked, starting wildly up.
               "It is only Guiseppe, with the pretty caleche," answered her mother.
               Bertha was wide awake at once.
               "You are not going out again, mamma, are you?"
               "Oh, only a little while, dear Bertha, to take a short drive into the country."
               "I am so sick, mamma, you must not go—please don't go with that hateful man!"
               "Now Bertha, be reasonable. I will be away only a little while. Guiseppe has kindly brought his pretty caleche, and I would not like to disappoint him. Beside, mamma is so shut up always that she needs the country air."
               But there was no reasoning with the indulged Bertha this morning. She fell to sobbing piteously: "Oh, mamma, my head aches so badly, you must not go!"
               Her mother left her for a moment, and went outside to consult with Guiseppe. Of course the young man objected to her remaining at home, and made light of the child's indisposition. Annette brought him in to see how ill she really was. But, unfortunately for him, when the feverish little girl beheld him, she screamed and covered her head, crying, "Oh, mamma take him away!"
               This mortified Annette, who felt ready to make any arrangement desired in order to atone for Bertha's rudeness, and when Guiseppe suggested that a neighbor might be brought in to remain with the child during their absence, she consented. This arrangement was made outside, and the mother hastened in to soothe Bertha—for the child was still her darling—while Guiseppe went out to prepare the horse for starting. But Bertha, when she heard of the arrangement, went into a fit of terror.
               
               "Did you not see him, mamma?—his eyes were sharp—they cut me!" she whispered hysterically. "Oh, he will kill me, mamma!" And when her mother attempted to move, she held her fast with a trembling hand, sobbing in broken accents, "Oh, mamma, do not go! do not leave me to-day!"
               "My darling little Bertha," said the now frightened mother, "I will not leave you,—the whole world could not induce me to leave you feeling so badly. I will go and tell Guiseppe that I will stay with you, dear child."
               When the young mother left her child's bedside to inform Guiseppe of her decision, she had become a wiser and better woman. The thin vail that her flattered vanity had placed before her eyes had suddenly fallen. In her swift revulsion of feeling and her anxiety for Bertha, she saw things in their true light. She now told the young man decidedly that she could not go. Then, for the first time, she saw the naked soul of this subtle Italian. He lost temper, his black eyes glistened, death and hate burned in them. And when he muttered between his clenched teeth that, "she must—yes, she should go; she was promised and bound to him," she felt a thrill of terror such as had seized her little Bertha.
               Guiseppe sprang into the caleche and drove madly off, while Annette closed the door after him with a sense of relief.
               Returning to her sick child, she clasped her fervently to her heart, while little Louey, seated on the bed, commenced crowing and screaming with glee. A sense of gratitude, love, and happiness, to which she had long been a stranger, filled the mother's heart. Mingled with this was a feeling of wonder that she could have been so infatuated, and a deep humiliation and penitence. Again and again she wildly pressed the child to her throbbing bosom, crying:
               "Bertha, Bertha, still cling to me—ever hold me, my darling!"
               When Francois returned home that evening, how dear he seemed to her! She thought of all his goodness, his sturdy honesty, his upright manliness, which was ever ready to protect her. Oh, how she clung to him, and wept passionate tears of self-condemning anguish on his breast!
               The young man, astonished at this unusual excitement, said:
               "Annette, you frighten me,—is Bertha so ill?"
               At which she roused herself and assured him that there was no danger. "Come, Francois," she said, "come in and see the dear child."
               Bertha, now calm, told her papa that she felt better, almost well, and would like to get up. But her father promised to stay by her all the evening if she would lie still; and he sat by her bedside telling her pretty little stories, while Annette, smiling and happy, rocked the little Louey in her arms, her injured conscience now and then whispering that she did not deserve all these blessings.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               URSULA'S TROUBLE.
               URSULA, the bright, blue-eyed Ursula, whose broad, honest face but a few months before beamed with a continuous smile; to whom every trivial circumstance was a joy—a visitor coming, a message to be undertaken, were sources of pleasure; whose light-hearted nature was ever ready for change, unthinking as a child; who saw no cares before her, happy in this home that had been hers so many years; loving her young mistress, loving the mistress of the Chateau, the good Lady Orilia; trusting and secure in these loves,—this good-natured, happy Ursula is changed most sadly!
               She has become a thing of nerves,—nerves strung with terror, trembling, shivering, almost imbecile. Those great blue eyes move with a stealthy wildness; there is watchfulness and suspicion in her every movement. The rosy cheeks are now of fitful color, sometimes red to excess, as though burning—consuming the springs of life—anon pale, ghastly pale, as with sudden fear; her parted lips seem as if she were always listening, dreading, expecting. She still wears at times a smile, but it is too often only a painful semblance, a contraction of the muscles,—the hearty, free laugh is gone. She displays an eager desire to be prompt—to give all attention, when her mind is quite evidently wandering away.
               During this time the Lady Orilia had been using her utmost endeavors to ascertain the true cause of this condition of the poor girl. She had resolved that Guiseppe's master must send him away. True, he had always behaved with the utmost propriety, and had been quite an addition to the family comfort, he was so obliging and so intelligent. Although at first her instincts had been somewhat against him, she had not yielded to those instincts, feeling them to be rather an unsafe criterion; but now she felt that on Ursula's account he had better be dismissed. It appeared to her preferable that the young man should suffer a temporary injustice, if injustice it were, than that the girl's happiness should be jeopardized. But, when such a possibility was hinted to Ursula, it seemed as though she would lose her reason. On her knees she piteously entreated that this should not be done. If he were dismissed, she told the Lady Orilia, "she would follow him to the end of the world—she would never lose sight of him—never!"
               "And do you love him so very much, my poor Ursula?"
               "No, no, Madame; I could not, I would not, I dare not love that young man!"
               When pressed for an explanation, she could only tremble and shudder, and finally fall into a passion of weeping, and entreat her mistress to say no more about it. She would be very cheerful and well, and every thing would be right. Would not her lady, if she was very good and attentive, promise to say nothing about this matter to Monsieur St. Olef?
               "I would not, my lady, have poor Guiseppe injured on any account. Think, my lady, he has no father nor mother, nor sisters!" And Ursula's tenderness invested him with so much that needed pity and sympathy, that even Lady Orilia became interested, and for the present concluded to let matters remain as they were.
               "You are a strange girl, Ursula," she said; "I used to think you were a simple child of nature, but now you are really an enigma to me. I would not, certainly, wish to injure your friend, and would think it indeed unjust that he should suffer if you were foolish enough to give your affections without hope of return,—but I must be convinced of his honesty of purpose. I shall observe his conduct narrowly, and shall not spare him if I find him in fault."
               Neither was Helena more successful in her endeavors to ascertain the cause of Ursula's disquietude, although with her young mistress the girl was less reserved than with the Lady Orilia. Sometimes she seemed on the very verge of making a disclosure—then followed a terror of excitement, lest she had inadvertently betrayed her secret.
               She appeared of late to be particularly attached to Helena, and would gaze on her with a helpless, loving look when she supposed herself unobserved, remaining near her at every possible opportunity. Yet if spoken to, her startled manner, and apparent desire to escape were painful to behold. She seemed to expect some information was coming which she dreaded to hear.
               Helena noted all these strange and contradictory actions, and finally adopted the theory that Ursula entertained a repugnance to Guiseppe's attentions, which at first she had perhaps encouraged, and that finding him persistent she had become frightened, not knowing how to be released from the difficulty, desiring that her young mistress should help her, yet not daring to ask for assistance.
               Something also in Guiseppe's conduct favored this conclusion. He seemed to be ever following and watching the girl. He frequently persuaded Ursula to walk out with him, and once or twice had asked permission to give her a ride into the country. On these occasions she had invariably some excuse; she was too busy, she was too tired; she did not want to go; but Guiseppe had insisted. And he appeared constantly to press his society upon her, flitting about her even when engaged at her daily avocations.
               These things, combined with the girl's evident longing to unburden her mind, caused Helena to resolve upon giving her an opportunity to do so. One afternoon, toward twilight, as she sat alone in her room, she heard Ursula in the apartment just opposite the passage, engaged in preparing the table for the evening repast. Opening the door, she called her pleasantly to come and assist for a few moments in winding a skein of silk.
               Ursula endeavored to excuse herself, apparently fearing that Mademoiselle intended something more than the mere silk-winding.
               "Oh, I am indeed so busy, Mademoiselle!" she said, as the form of Guiseppe passed the low window.
               Helena urged that it would take but a little time, and the girl reluctantly obeyed, turning a glance buck toward the window as she left the room.
               The young mistress caused her to sit upon the low seat beside her, passing the silk she was preparing to wind into her hands, and chatting pleasantly while she looked for the little ivory ball, which had rolled out of sight. It seemed like old times. They had been young girls, almost children, together, and until painful experiences had arisen, transforming them into reflecting, anxious women, there had been between them perfect freedom from restraint. Now Helena spoke in the old, kindly way, and said:
               "Ursula, you used to tell me every thing; now you are in trouble, tell me what it is. I know there is something the matter."
               "Oh no, Mademoiselle, I have not said so, have I?" she asked in alarm.
               "No; but you seem unhappy. Does Guiseppe trouble you? Come, Ursula, I want to help you."
               "Guiseppe, Mademoiselle? Why do you ask about Guiseppe?" And she looked around her with an expression of terror.
               "Because, Ursula, before he came here you did not act as you do now."
               "Oh Mademoiselle, you mistake!" she said, raising her voice, "Guiseppe and I most are excellent friends. I think so much of Guiseppe, indeed I do!" With this asseveration Ursula started out of her chair as though she would drop the silk from her hands, and whispered with wild eyes looking forward, "What was that?"
               "Why, what could it be, Ursula? I saw nothing."
               "Some one passed the door."
               At this reply Helena laughed merrily. "You must have sharp eyes, Ursula," she said, "to see any one pass the door with your back toward it!"
               "Oh, Mademoiselle, the mirror!" said the girl, pointing toward the small glass in the lid of Helena's work-box.
               "You are really full of phantom fears, Ursula. It was but a passing shadow—the wind is blowing the trees outside, and the long, waving branches make these sweeping shadows in our dusky room." Helena was thus explicit because she really began to fear that the poor girl's mind was crazed.
               Ursula seemed reassured at this, and said quite naturally: "You are very kind, Mademoiselle, and you must not blame me. I will do every thing that I can, dear Mademoiselle, so do not blame me. Say you will not."
               "Blame you? Why should I blame you, Ursula? I only regret that you will not confide in me. I could protect you. There is some weight of sorrow, some mystery on your mind, I know."
               "Who said so? Oh. Mademoiselle, I did not say so! I am happy, Mademoiselle; I did not say I was unhappy. Guiseppe is my very good friend."
               Here a low whistle sounded through the quiet evening air, and an answering tremor was visible over Ursula's person, although she endeavored to appear unconcerned. But when another still lower succeeded it, she started as though she would spring from the room. Perceiving her uneasiness, Helena said:
               "I will soon be through—one moment longer."
               Ursula strove hard to appear at ease, and answered nervously: "Never mind, Mademoiselle, I am in no hurry!" But her actions belied the words, for as the last thread was drawn she leaped forward saying, "Now may I go, Mademoiselle?"
               Helena's eyes followed her, as passing swiftly through the passage-way, Ursula stealthily opened a side door leading out on the lawn, and hurrying along the outer wall of the garden, toward the shore of the lake, entered a small copse of wild, half-grown trees, and disappeared.
               The anxious young mistress remembered that on the side of the garden wall adjoining this piece of woods, was a clump of shrubbery where she could be hidden from observation, and she determined on the instant to follow the girl, hoping to gain some clue to the mysterious cause of her distress and misery.
               Hastening out, she walked rapidly along the garden wall, reached the shrubbery, and screened herself from view in time to overhear a portion of the conversation, which, as she suspected, was taking place between Ursula and Guiseppe. Guiseppe had seemingly been upbraiding her, for she was sobbing, and endeavoring to defend herself.
               "Yes," he said, in a voice utterly unlike his usual softly-modulated tones, "Yes, forever whimpering and whining! You might as well talk, and proclaim all you know. You are a fool, Ursula—a poor, weak fool! And you will repent this nonsense, for, by the Almighty, my life shall not be held by this frail thread!"
               Approaching nearer, he whispered something so low in his companion's ear, that the words could not be caught by Helena. Ursula uttered a suppressed scream of horror, at which Guiseppe sternly bade her be silent.
               "Oh, Guiseppe," she exclaimed, "do not say that again! Have pity on me—put that horrid thing away! Oh, do have pity!"
               "Talk of pity," he replied savagely, "when you lead me such a life! Is this the womanly devotion I hear about? You will not even sacrifice a fancy. I have to be forever following and watching you; I dare not trust you out of my sight for fear you will betray me. You have told me that you love me—that you could die for my sake—and yet you go on with this confounded folly. You will drive me to desperation yet, and if you do, I swear—"
               "Ah, Guiseppe," interrupted Ursula, piteously, "do not look so! I will do better. I have sworn; you may trust me. I will never speak—never—never. I will smile, and try to forget. But you must promise that you will never do that other—that terrible thing."
               At this he laughed, and called her his "little, foolish Ursula." "And so you took all this in earnest? Could you not see that I was but jesting?"
               They continued the conversation more amicably. Helena gathered from hints and whispered sentences, of which only now and then a word reached her ear, that Guiseppe was mortally afraid of his master, and that if some secret understood between them chanced to be discovered, dreadful consequences would ensue.
               Altogether the communication was so much confused, that the fair listener was quite as much mystified as before. But of one thing she felt assured—that Ursula knew what she was about—that her mind was perfectly sane, though strangely under the control of this man. Perhaps, after all, there was nothing in the affair. They were a strange couple—it was best to leave them to manage their own quarrels, for such she concluded to be the cause of Ursula's trouble. Smiling to herself at the result of her espionage, and relieved, she scarcely knew why, Helena returned unobserved to her sitting-room. The Lady Orilia was not yet come home and no lamps were lighted. In the deepening twilight the young girl sat brooding over other anxieties than Ursula had caused.
               Cheerful and strong as she had resolved to be, there were times when a saddened retrospection overcame her with gloom. At this hour of twilight she had often listened for the pastor's footstep. She could not reconcile herself to his absence, or understand why, even with all that had transpired to separate them, he could so completely give them up. Not an inquiry! Not the slightest effort toward obtaining an explanation! Helena shed a few silent tears as she thought of these things, though not even to herself did she acknowledge the source of her emotion. She told herself carelessly that this was only one of the ordinary disappointments people meet with in life. One must be a philosopher, and learn to sigh very lightly over these misplaced friendships! But this did not ease those deeper wounds; philosophy did not quite seem to reach the present case. So Helena wept in secret, but dried her eyes and smiled again, and when lights were brought and friends came in, was ready as always with cheerful words and happy thoughts, a bright, buoyant spirit, diffusing animation and pleasure everywhere.
               Great was her pride, and great her strength of will. None should read her heart—not one! She would die rather than reveal her secret. And well had she succeeded in concealing it. Even St. Olef was in doubt as to the state of her feelings. His keenest glance could not detect a change of countenance when allusion was made to this former intimate friend, though for that purpose he frequently introduced the subject.
               To add to Helena's difficulties the Abbe Vinett was absent, otherwise she would have had many opportunities of hearing about the young pastor, for she knew that the two still remained intimate friends. In the absence of all information, she endured the most wearisome suspense.
               She would even have listened complacently to the pompous Mayor of Berne, had he dropped in and as in former times selected the pastor's delinquencies as a profitable theme of discourse. But alas, he no longer visited the Chateau. Since that eventful Sunday he had disappeared; why, Helena did not know.
               True, he had sent some three-cornered, sweet-scented notes to the Lady Orilia, but these were business notes; Helena herself read them aloud to the lady. They were in regard to proposed changes in his charity schools, and asked her advice concerning the propriety of modifying some of his stringent rules. To one of these notes, however, he added a postscript, for the very purpose, seemingly of tantalizing poor Helena. The postscript ran thus:
               "About our young friend, (you know to whom I allude,) I have done all in my power to avert the catastrophe—but without avail."
               What catastrophe? The sentence evidently referred to the young pastor, at least so Helena's instincts told her. She knew that the pastor had been brought before the ecclesiastical council; what had been the result? Had they accepted his resignation—or had they dismissed him? It was very strange that the Lady Orilia had not spoken of it. She reflected, however, that the latter had few opportunities of conversation with her, except when St. Olef was present, of whose unpleasant feeling toward the pastor she was aware, and therefore avoided the topic, as much as possible.
               Another cause of disquietude was the indirect attention of this gentleman.
               Since that Saturday evening understanding—or misunderstanding—Helena had desired that there should be but little intercourse 
                     beween
                     between
                   herself and St. Olef, but she could not seem to avoid it. If dear old Madame Ponson called, as she often did, to take the young people out for a drive, she could not, without hurting the old lady's feelings, refuse to accompany them; or if invitations to evening parties were given, she could not without some direct explanation to Lady Orilia, avoid permitting St. Olef to escort her. And what explanation could she make? Certainly nothing worthy of the name.
               St. Olef had now become the lion of the place; the courtesies and attentions which he had at first rather avoided, were now accepted and seemingly enjoyed. He still indulged in the same indifferent and satirical manner which left his companions always in doubt whether he was in earnest or not, but his deportment was so elegant, and when he endeavored to please his fascinations were so irresistible, that he carried all hearts by storm.
               Old friends of the Lady Orilia's desired to honor her guest for her sake, and new ones for his own, till the round of entertainments, visits and parties was really astounding to the old burghers, who rubbed their eyes and wondered if they still were in their ancient quiet and peaceful homes or not.
               Yet to Helena's preoccupied heart these festivities gave little pleasure, though for the Lady Orilia's sake she also desired to honor their guest.
               Yes, for her sake—that friend who had been truly her friend in need. In recalling the days of her childhood, the young girl's memory sometimes centered—like a strong light on a picture, revealing points before obscure—upon a time when she lived as in a splendid show; a time of grandeur and glitter—remembered from its contrast with the long, dark years of sickness and grief that followed.
               She recalled the shut up rooms, the close, oppressive air, the troublesome helplessness of her aged grandmother—all this seemed to embrace an immeasurable space of time. Afterward they travelled—how long they were upon the water! Then succeeded another change—her life at the Chateau. When she first beheld this edifice it had seemed to her like a place of great length and breadth, a lowly palace, spanned by one great sunbeam. And as it appeared to her then, so did the old Chateau still appear. As she grew older she found that its light and charm were in the rich, warm heart of its owner, whose broad and universal sympathy radiated like a beam of sunlight wherever its influence extended, and made her abode a palace of the affections.
               Helena was often weary now, and sat of an afternoon subdued and sad in the twilight of her room, brooding over old recollections, and seeking to escape for awhile from the society of St. Olef, who now that he had declared his intention of speedily departing for Italy, sought her companionship more than ever.
               Poor Helena! she thought that she had guarded her secret well; but there was one who could sympathize with all her struggles, who had seen how it was with her from the first. This was the Lady Orilia. She too had passed through her young experiences, and remembered their bitterness. Though her heart was now under control, and her bearing serene, the traces of that time of tumult and despair had never been erased.
               Entering Helena's room, and finding her sad and thoughtful, she felt that she might venture to relieve the mind of the young girl without appearing to intrude upon her confidence. She seated herself beside her, and after chatting pleasantly awhile, said:
               "You remember, my dear, the allusion in the Mayor's note yesterday to the 'catastrophe' he had failed to avert? Well, it referred to our young pastor. He has been dismissed from his parish on account of 'certain heretical doctrines,' as they are termed, entertained by him. He came out frankly and fully, refusing even the privilege offered of being retained for a time, and his services considered as only suspended, that he might have opportunity to reconsider the matter. He said that he wished to be entirely free. I am glad of this, dear Helena, very glad. I rejoice that he had the courage and firmness to face the difficulties of his position. I have no fears for the future of such a man."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE ARTIST-PASTOR.
               THE young pastor of Aesch entered one bright morning the great quiet kitchen of the parsonage—a room to which we have introduced the reader—so unlike most kitchens in its neatness and purity, its shining utensils, its fragrance of flower and vine, wafting through the open windows, that we have loved to linger in it.
               At the small round table, so bountifully provided with its simple fare, sat the mistress of the house, awaiting breakfast.
               The young man did not enter this time in his customary sedate manner. Disorder, haste, and considerable noise accompanied his arrival. Indeed, if it must be admitted, he indulged in some very boyish demonstrations. He entered with a shout of triumph, swinging a letter excitedly above his head, as he exclaimed:
               "Good news mother! Oh, such good news! Can you guess it? Try. But you never can—it is so wonderful!"
               Here he commenced capering about, jumping over chairs and benches, and generally comporting himself in so unseemly a fashion, that sedate tabby began to bustle up from her quiet rug and show her back and hiss, while Thereta with staring eyes ran in to see what was the matter, and the astonished mother looked on at a loss what to make of these pranks which she had not witnessed before in many a year agone.
               Undignified and fantastic though the manifestation might be, it was a glad sight to her eyes to see that prematurely sober face lighted up with its old animation. Sadness had become its habitual expression, while its settled pallor and wasting flesh indicated repressed suffering and anxiety. It was indeed a joyous thing to see him thus elated, and when he asked her to guess the news, there came a great hope into her heart. She forgot for the moment there could be any other news, as she answered in an eager tone of voice: "Can it be possible, Rudolph, we may remain in the dear old home?"
               "Oh, better than that, mother!" he said exultingly.
               But he stood rebuked when he saw the look of disappointment, and the gathering moisture in the eye that seldom showed such womanly weakness.
               "I had forgotten!" he exclaimed; "I had forgotten your sacrifice, mother—how thoughtless I am! Surely this is the very day we are to leave the old place." And by a swift and sudden reaction, a paroxysm of anguish took the place of his momentary exultation; sitting down beside his mother, he mingled his tears with hers. The old home was endeared to them both by long association and sacred memories.
               The young man presently roused himself and endeavored to throw off this gainful emotion.
               "Come mother, cheer up," he said, "after all it is good news that I have to tell you, and it was chiefly on your account I was so much rejoiced—for to tell you the truth, if it were not for you, and all that I owe you, I would much rather die than live, mother,—indeed I would."
               As he uttered these words, the old painful expression which his mother knew so well, settled again upon his face. At sight of this familiar shadow she rallied her spirits; she would not add her griefs to the burden he already had to bear; briskly wiping away the remaining tears, she exclaimed:
               "Rudolph, have done with this—you will break my heart if you talk in this way! We have both of us much to live for. You must be happy—you must live," said the imperative old lady; and added reverently, as an apology for her impetuosity, "if it be God's will."
               "You are right, mother; I must and shall live. I must do my work. I shall soon throw off this incubus of sadness; it is selfish to indulge such feelings, and inflict one's own gloom on all around. But, to return to this,—" said he with a smile, holding up the letter. "I can now make you a home just as good as this. It will not have the same associations, but it will surely have others as pleasant by-and-by. And I can make it so attractive that you will forget the past. No, not forget—but recall it with a softened memory. Now smile, while I tell you about the good Abbe's letter—for this is from the Abbe Vinett. I will not tell you all he says, lest you think it too flattering. We must place a good deal of it to the account of friendship.
               "The letter is dated Paris; and he tells me that he has sold my painting, and relates all the fine things that were said of it before he comes to the main point—and then he adds, as though it were quite a matter of secondary importance, that he received one hundred guineas for it. One hundred guineas! Think of that mother! That is as much as I ever received for a whole year of labor."
               The mother sat in mute astonishment that what the Mayor had termed a "profitless employment," should have borne such fruits.
               "And here is a postscript, in which he adds: 'The gentleman who purchased your painting has just called to give an order for another, of the same size and general style of treatment—a view of the Lake of Brienz'—just where we are going, mother!—'taken from an elevated point of the Rothorn, which, with Brienz in its picturesque and romantic seclusion, affords also a glimpse through the opening forest of Lakes Thun, Lucerne, Constance, and even Neuchatel.' This splendid panorama is the scene he has chosen for my picture, mother. How strange that Brienz should be our destination! And the Abbe farther says that the gentleman is an American, travelling for health and pleasure, and will accompany him on his return to Switzerland. Now, after all this pleasant news, will you not say that the Abbe is our good friend?"
               The mother hesitated; it was difficult to overcome ancient and cherished prejudices. Might not this be one of the allurements of that dreaded Evil One? She feared the effect of these new influences over her son's mind. They might yet open a yawning gulf to swallow him in everlasting ruin. True, she felt grateful; her heart did own a kindly feeling toward her son's benefactor; but was this right? She doubted whether it were; and when he said again: "Do, mother, forget all else, and admit that the Abbe is a dear, good friend" she replied:
               "I would, Rudolph, but when I remember that it was he who first poisoned your mind, and aroused those doubts of the great truths it was your honored father's pride to proclaim, and thus brought upon us all this shame and difficulty, then—"
               "Not shame, mother," interrupted the young man, while a crimson flush spread over his pale face. "Surely there can be no shame in one's honest convictions. But be that as it may, the Abbe has nothing to do with our troubles, or with my change of views. There is the great mistake. But let us to breakfast, we have no time to lose, and while we are partaking of it I will try in a few words to clear your mind on this subject.
               "I well remember that when a very little fellow, and, like most children, fond of asking questions, because it is the easiest way of obtaining information, that my father would check me and say, 'Rudolph, I can very readily answer your inquiry, but I want you to learn to think for yourself.' And when he would find me poring over books, he would say, 'Put them away, you will become stupid and indolent, my boy. It is much easier to obtain the thoughts of other people than to cultivate your own—but you will never become a true man till you learn to think for yourself.'
               "At that time these words had very little influence; with the credulousness of youth, I had faith in all that was written, and so I would steal out of sight and enjoy my books in secret. But, although the words were not then heeded, they left their impression, and whenever in my reading I came to any thing improbable, I would remember that advice: 'Think for yourself.'
               "In advancing years, when I strove to follow the arguments of some powerful mind, and became perplexed and puzzled, the same words would come to me, mother, fairly as if father spoke them aloud. So they have followed me through every phase of my life. I have heard them amid the most fervent appeals, the most violent denunciations,—when I have been called upon to defend myself,—to stand up and declare the faith that was in me. Had I never heard these words, never learned to think for myself, I would have put to flight every charge brought against me; for with my gifts of speech, and my memory, I could have brought forward an array of knowledge that would have confounded my accusers. But I must think for myself: every word must appear in the chambers of my own conscience, and there receive approval or condemnation. So you see, mother, it was the power of these words—not the Abbe's, but my own honored father's words—that brought me where I am to-day. And I thank God that I have heard them, and heeded them, and that their meaning has grown and strengthened with my growth. I am only grieved that you should be pained mother, and put to this great sacrifice for them."
               "Say not another word, my dear boy,—my sacrifice is of small importance," said the strong-hearted woman. "In your happiness alone I have happiness;" and she added nobly, "I shall henceforth exonerate your friend. He shall be received into my affections, and I will strive, to atone for the injustice I have done him."
               "Ah, so you may, mother; he needs kind, sympathetic care. I fear he will not trouble any one long."
               "Why, what do you mean, my son?"
               "The Abbe has long been the victim of a disease which he knows must at some time prove fatal. And he writes me that since he has been away its symptoms have rapidly developed. He is very feeble, and fears he will not much more than be able to reach home—and such a home as that is for a sick man! In a dreary old castle, with no woman's influence to lighten its gloom."
               "Then he must come to us, Rudolph," said the matron, with her accustomed promptness of decision.
               "Oh, mother, could you receive him?" said the young man with happy eagerness. "But I fear it would prove too much care for you and Thereta—yet if it could be Without overburdening you, I should be so rejoiced."
               "Then he must come; he shall come." The mother now rose and began to make arrangements for their approaching exodus. Preparations which she had long delayed, vaguely hoping that they might never, after all, be necessary. In her poor old heart the sad farewell was constantly welling up, but there were no outward signs of discomposure.
               The old drawers, and cupboards, kept sacredly under lock and key, were opened, and those dusty volumes exhumed which had never been touched since the hand of the revered dead placed them there.
               How many reminiscences they awakened of that time, long ago, yet so fresh in memory—of that fearful night when the wild winds swept round the walls of the old parsonage, and the deep snowdrifts closed them in all around—of that night of dreary waiting for him who came no more—of the long, sickening suspense, which changed to terrible certainty so soon! She shuddered as she thought of it; far better would it be to die, than to live through such an agony again.
               But other and brighter memories succeeded these; memories that brought a warm gush of love to her heart. She remembered his protecting kindness, his tenderness and affection, his upright, noble life. "Rudolph is just like him," she said to herself, and that whispered thought strengthened her to her task. Why should she so grieve to leave the old place—did she not take with her son, and all her sacred memories? Thus she reasoned and battled with herself, while she and Thereta conducted their packing and arranging ing. Then came the teams, one after another, till quite a number were gathered about the door of the old parsonage, for many friendly neighbors had volunteered to come and assist in removing their household goods.
               They still loved the young pastor and his mother. She was deservedly much esteemed for her strength of character, her activity, her unchanging regard for them, and also as the widow of one whose virtues and labors they yet held in remembrance. Indeed, some of them were little pleased with this breaking up of old associations.
               "Why should this parish be governed by the ecclesiastical council of Berne?" they questioned. It was a dead letter—a compact entered into with their fathers, by which they ought not to be bound. Some even broadly hinted that but for the self-important Mayor of that city the nearly obsolete statute would never have been acted upon.
               Thus they talked angrily and aloud, even those who had taken most exception to the pastor's innovations on old ideas declaring that it was "cruelly hard on a young fellow," till the pastor had to exert himself to restore their good-humor. He assured them that it was all his own fault, that he wanted to be free, and had refused the offer of the council to retain him on probation.
               At length all was ready and the cavalcade moved on, the pastor and his mother in their little pony carriage, bringing up the rear.
               At the very time when the old parsonage with its overhanging eaves, and the modest spire of the ancient, moss-grown church on the common, were receding from the gaze to which they had grown so familiar, the good Abbe Vinett, sick and enfeebled, was borne on a litter up the ascent leading to the castle of his friend and patron, the young Count Gruyere.
               As, he entered the door of the castle, the Count stood in the main hall waiting to receive him, and was truly shocked to behold the change which a short time had made in his old friend. Although aware that the Abbe was not in good health when he left, and had not been for some time, yet he was not prepared for so great an alteration in his appearance, and was much affected by it. He repressed his anxiety to hear the result of the political negotiations in which the Abbe had been engaged, until the latter had been properly cared for, taken to his own room, and refreshed by. repose and strengthening draughts.
               The Abbe was much overcome by these marks of affection, for though the young man had repelled his advice, and in a degree withdrawn himself from their former confidential intercourse, he was still dear to the heart of his old tutor. With the obstinate persistence of youth, strong in will, but weak in comprehension, he had pursued his own course in spite of the entreaties and agony of the Abbe. He was one of those men of a single idea, who if fortunate enough to be on the winning side are applauded by the world, but who, should failure attend their efforts, are consigned to the ignominy it is said they so justly deserve: the world forgetting the premium it has held up to them in the honors and emoluments showered upon the successful.
               The Abbe, encouraged by the kindness of his old pupil, resolved to make another effort to turn the young man from his purpose, and persuade him to free himself from his political entanglements.
               Accordingly, in the morning, when the Count entered his room, to inquire after his health, the Abbe begged him to remain a short time, and calling him by him boyish sobriquet, said:
               "Orloff, if you will have patience, I should like to have some conversation, With you on certain matters. I am aware that the subject is a delicate one to approach—we have talked of it before."
               Perceiving the change in the young, man's countenance, he added:
               "Let me ask it as a personal favor that you will listen. I will speak plainly and briefly. I desire that you will again carefully fully examine the chances in this dangerous game you are playing."
               The Count frowned, but made no reply. The Abbe continued:
               "I have fears—serious fears—"
               Here the Count interposed: "I am aware of this. Have you not always opposed me—placed every possible obstacle in my way?"
               The Abbe did not heed the interruption, neither did he lose temper: "I am aware, Orloff, that you do not like to hear such advice, and perhaps I am stepping out of my place in giving it. But I act from a sense of duty. I remember your father, and all that I owe to his generosity, and I have resolved to make the venture, and show you if possible the desperate nature of the cause in which you are engaged. As you may have anticipated, the different courts I have visited, after keeping me waiting in suspense the result of their half-promises, have at last decided to withdraw from all appearance of complication in this matter."
               "Ah, is this so?"
               "They hold out vague hopes, which amount to this: you take all the risks, all the responsibility, and if things should progress as they desire, then they may show their hand, but they will allow no claims to be made or steps taken that may compromise them. And it is only as a dependency that they will recognize you."
               "We shall see!" said the Count, with a contemptuous sneer.
               "But do not risk your own ruin to prove their weakness."
               " You need not fear," he answered confidently. "But what do the other cautious powers say?"
               "They utterly decline, though urged by strong friends here, to have any thing to do with the affair; they are peremptory in their refusal."
               "Ah? I was not prepared for this. I thought I had some claim there, as one of their faith, and from the known adherence of my family. Does not His Holiness remember that he owes much of his present eminence to my own near kinsman, my mother's brother? Has he no sense of gratitude? Does he not consider the furtherance of that cause he is bound to advance? Why, what does he mean—what reason does he give for his refusal?" All these questions were asked in hot haste.
               "The utter desperation of the cause," was the reply.
               "Nonsense! This is some of your own imagining," said the Count, wrathfully, turning upon his friend as people will do in the unreasonable anger of bitter disappointment. "I might have known what would be the result of sending one who had no interest or care in the matter."
               This was hard; but the Abbe made no sharp reply; he felt more pity than anger, for, as the Count well knew, his old preceptor had in these latter years refused many lucrative offers, and had set aside every other interest to devote himself to the failing fortunes of his family; and the only thought of his mind now was how to save this rash adventurer. For, although the Count would have scorned the idea, yet his claims to the sovereignty of the state were so remote, that an attempt to gain its possession might justly rank him among "rash adventurers." But his lifelong friend accredited his motives; he knew that, however misguided the youth might be, he acted upon what he deemed right principles, feeling that his proud name and pure lineage, and the memory of his parents, called upon him as a devoted son, to assert his rights. He did not reflect upon the ruin and bloodshed involved; these were but the 
                     nnfortunate
                     unfortunate
                   means to an honorable end.
               The Abbe knew that the Count's faith in the divine right of his race amounted to a mania—a mania which he hoped time with its larger experiences would cure. So he suffered the unjust taunt to pass unnoticed, and continued his account of the failure of his embassy, and the refusal of all those whose aid he had solicited to help them with either arms or money, or to recognize the movement in any way.
               " Well I can do without their aid," said the Count haughtily. "There are others on whom I can rely."
               The Abbe hesitated how to reply. The wide gap that usage and old established social distinctions make between the dependent and the patron, existed between the Count and himself, and habitual deference to the Count's superiority made him slow to express his opinions.
               At last he said, resolutely: "Orloff, let me speak. With all your wild words, you surely can not but know that I have but one motive, and that is to advance your best interests. I must be plain: I cannot regard the pressing of this claim is warranted either by justice or honor."
               "Who dare impeach my honor?" cried the Count, in a towering passion.
               "I do not," replied the Abbe; "but you are the dupe of those in whom I have no faith; and I warn you against them."
               The young man at this lost all self-restraint, and burst into a torrent of invective and reproach. His naturally strong passions were uncontrollable when once aroused. Forgetting the enfeebled condition of his friend, he abused the Abbe for his lukewarmness—declaring that it was through his puling half-way measures all these troubles had been brought about—that he (the Count) would break loose from this fettering friendship—he would now know who were his true friends. He wished it to be distinctly understood that he desired no farther advice; he was determined to succeed in spite of his enemies.
               "Enemies!" repeated the Abbe. But he was too much exhausted to contend farther. Weary and depressed, he sank back on his pillow as the Count with hasty strides left the apartment.
               Thus he lay for one, two, three days, sick and heart-sore. He had lost his influence; he was needed no more. It is a painful thing to realize, and very painful were the reflections of the Abbe as he lay on his couch during those dreary days.
               Perhaps he had temporized too much. He had seen from the first where this infatuation would lead the Count; had he been more decided, he might have been able to prevent this folly; but he had hoped that time would show the youth the futility of his ambitious schemes. When first the Abbe heard him talking over his plans, he had supposed them to be merely the amusement of idle hours—dreams such as youth loves to indulge, seldom seeking to make them realities. The possibility that passions might come in play to deepen these fancies into purposes, had not been foreseen. But these passions had been aroused by the beautiful Viola, whom he had met attended by her maid, in one of his rambles among the mountains, and whose girlish beauty and artlessness had completely fascinated him. He had made inquiries concerning the family, and was introduced to her worldly mother, whom he found ready in her ambitious projects to second his wishes, and before Viola, was aware the whole matter was arranged.
               No, the Abbe had not calculated on such a possibility. The unlooked-for cooperation of Viola's mother had struck him like a thunderbolt; he saw matters culminating rapidly, yet felt it was too late to stay them. His strong attachment to the Count's family forbade his desertion of the cause, and against his better judgment he had used every possible means to further it.
               The reward of his adherence, for the sake of his friend, to a cause of which he disapproved, was to find himself cast off in his helplessness by that friend.
               During all those days of illness succeeding the stormy interview, the Count never entered the invalid's room nor made any inquiries concerning him. But from his lonely turret chamber the Abbe could hear an unusual commotion in the lower apartments of the castle, the sound of frequent arrivals and departures, and the steps of many passing to and fro. A servant informed him that, the state rooms of the castle were being renovated, and the entire castle refurnished in splendid style, and that many strangers were arriving—some very grand people—indeed he had heard it whispered that a royal prince was among them. He was not quite sure of this, but of one thing he was certain—that one of the loveliest creatures his eyes ever beheld had visited the castle.
               "The old Countess in her day," said the venerable retainer, "was considered a beauty, but she could not compare with this angelic young lady. She called yesterday with her mother, to signify her approval of the changes that have been made. And," continued the garrulous old man, "it is the talk among the servants that the Count and the young lady are engaged. But I doubt it—I doubt it," shaking his old head, "for the beautiful creature appeared more pleased with the attentions of the soldierly young gentleman who accompanied herself and mother, than with the devoted admiration of our young master."
               The gossip of the old man served to amuse the invalid, and divert his mind from the painful thoughts on which it was ever dwelling; but his solitude, unrelieved by other companionship, grew intolerably wearisome. Truly was he thankful when on the morning of the fourth day of his arrival, a visitor was announced, who proved to be the gentleman who had purchased the painting from him while in Paris, and who had accompanied him part of the way on his homeward journey, diverging however to visit some remarkable places.
               During these tedious days of illness, the poor, deserted Abbe had dwelt with much pleasure on the invitation he had received from the young pastor to make his little chalet a place of abiding until restored to health. He had hesitated to accept the invitation, but having promised to introduce the stranger to the painter whose landscape had so charmed him, and being utterly weary of hid confinement, the Abbe roused himself to set out at once. An easy carriage was procured, and comfortably propped therein with cushions and pillows, he left the castle. The fresh air and the agreeable conversation of his companion revived his spirits. He became inspired with hew life. The journey was a brief one; they soon descended the steep roads cut in the almost perpendicular walls of the mountain, and drove quietly along the level of the valley. The scene which gradually closed round them was beautiful. Nestling among the tall cliffs just beyond lay the lake of Brienz, near which, on a swelling knoll stood the pastor's cottage, within sound of the rushing torrent of the Griesbeck, whose foaming waterfall descended between the lofty crags. Over all this lovely scene shone gloriously the setting sun.
               "From this spot," said the stranger, enchanted, "I will have my landscape painted—the view is sublime."
               This gentleman was possibly of the same age as the Abbe, but his years sat lightly upon him.
               He appeared to enjoy life,—had wealth and leisure at command to roam just where his fancy might lead him,—with all these advantages he possessed a fine flow of generous sympathies, which made him friends wherever he went. Yet in conversation with the Abbe, and in occasional evidences of absent thought and secret emotion which would steal over his face, there were traces of deep feeling; but his general expression was one of frank good nature;—one would feel to trust and honor him without question.
               Upon reaching the little chalet of the good pastor, our travelers were received by him and his mother with the warmest welcome, and tears of gratitude coursed down the Abbe's sunken cheeks as he received the affectionate embrace of each.
               The couch upon which they tenderly placed him to rest after the fatigues of his journey, was thoughtfully drawn up to the window, that he might rejoice his eyes, before night closed in, with the sight of the clear waters, and the opposite banks, through the open vista of valley and meadow and sloping hill. Gazing upon the peaceful prospect, he felt that there was great joy for him still in life, and on giving utterance to his happy thoughts, he found his friends truly reciprocated his feelings.
               "You shall remain with us always" responded ponded the matronly dame as she laid her hand in his, "My Rudolph has adopted you as a brother, and you are to be my son."
               He raised the hand fondly to his lips.
               "I will remain," he said, "while I am here—and then—and then—" his voice faltered, "when the change comes, you will put me in that little green mound, just by the water side. I can point to it now."
               "No, no," said Madame Renshawe, much affected, "I will not hear to this. With God's blessing, my good nursing will put new life into your veins. So now, my son, you must rest."
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               AN OLD FRIEND.
               IT was Autumn: gorgeous and varied tints painted the rich foliage of tree and shrub with a brief gaiety. Occasional winds from the north were robbing the beechwood and oak on the mountains of their dense covering, and scattering the dry leaves in every direction; but in the valleys the grass was still green, the trees, though fading, were still in full plumage, and the abundant vines were loaded with grapes ripe, and juicy. The orchards gave forth their treasures of mellow fruits, cattle were being housed, harvests, gathered in, and every hamlet was astir with the busy hum of preparation for winter.
               Nearly six months had elapsed since St. Olef first honored Le Petit Chateau with his presence. Six months of association and acquaintance, and yet his courteous hostess knew as little of her guest at the end of this time, as little of his aims, purposes, hopes and ambitions, as she had known in the first week of his arrival. This singular reticence of her agreeable visiter in regard to the past, had not, however, been specially remarked by Lady Orilia. It was only when questioned in regard to St. Olef's opinions and sentiments that she was conscious how little in reality she knew of him. But she considered that this might be more her own fault than his; she had not sought his confidence. There was certainly no seeming effort at concealment on his part; he was always companionable, agreeable, gave very little trouble, and would answer when questioned without apparent reserve; yet she could not seemingly get any nearer to him in all this time. The young man inspired her with interest rather than affection.
               The warmth and tenderness which a noble nature experiences toward one dependent upon it—such for instance, as she would have felt for the young pastor, was never called out by St. Olef. He seemed a power within himself: he needed no one's care or sympathy; he was sufficient to himself, and all he asked was to be let alone.
               His hostess let him alone. The usual courtesies passed when they met, and the general conversation on ordinary matters, but nothing more. She knew no more than an utter stranger how the young man spent his time, or what pursuits occupied his thoughts. None of that flutter and forgetfulness common to his age, ever betrayed St. Olef into speaking his thoughts before they were put in order for criticism. He was always prepared—never taken by surprise. The same smile of ambiguous meaning was ever ready, whether in the first flush of sudden meeting, or in the interchange of family talk. The speaker was aware that all he said was heard distinctly, but whether the listener was interested was quite another matter. A doubtful, puzzling, yet strangely interesting character, St. Olef charmed even those who half distrusted him.
               He was now quite restored to health, and, indeed, had been so for the last two or three months, yet still he lingered at the Chateau. He appeared to be fully occupied, had made many acquaintances, and was very popular; the Lady Orilia supposed that all this pleased her guest so well, that he was loth to leave the pleasant associations of the place. She knew that he visited on intimate terms the family at Wolfden Abbey, and also at the Chateau of the young Count; it had occurred to her that possibly there might be some motive stronger than friendship to attract him to the former place—possibly some youthful attachment between himself and Viola—but the report in regard to her engagement to the Count contradicted this idea. Occupied in her own affairs and charities his hostess troubled herself but little about these young people—their loves and fancies were enigmas that disturbed but little the serenity of her mind.
               She was most anxious at this time in regard to her father; he was unwell, and desired to be with her. A recent letter from the old General had announced this fact with all the plaintive hesitation of old age, whose infirmities he said were fast creeping over him; he longed to be with his only child for a little while.
               "Orilia," he wrote, "there is also another thing concerning which I hesitate to speak to you, yet cannot forbear. I hear that one who was my benefactor in the sorest strait of my life, is to visit your neighborhood soon—this may be rumor only—do not let it disturb you. Perhaps I should not have mentioned it—but I know your strength. And I also know, that though years have elapsed with their new hopes and interests, yet the sudden shock of meeting him again, should circumstances throw him in your way, would be far harder to bear than if forewarned of his approach. But if I ever reach you, my child, I must see this friend again—if indeed the report of his journey to Switzerland be true.
               "For I find," added the veteran, "as I grow old, older, these loves and remembrances of my earlier days, return with all their early force and freshness. I love to dwell upon them, and to recall by-gone scenes and thoughts, which sometimes return with a tinge of their old brilliancy, but sometimes, too, Orilia, clouded with remembrances of bitterness and agony for that which can never be restored. In these retrospects, the darkest recollections as well as the brightest, return with all their early strength and vividness.
               "I am growing old, and I crave to be with you my child. I shall certainly come to you when St. Olef returns."
               Anxious now to ascertain St. Olef's intentions, Lady Orilia casually mentioned her father's desire to visit her. St. Olef then informed her that he had written the General two weeks since, apprizing him of his intention to return at once to Italy. He would have left sooner, but hearing that some of his brother officers were about making a pleasure trip to Switzerland, he concluded to remain to escort them about. His departure was deferred for only a few days—a week at farthest.
               This was all very satisfactory to the Lady Orilia. She was pleased to find the young man so communicative, and the two had a more than usually pleasant chat that morning, in which the apparent frankness of her guest did away with some unpleasant suspicions which in spite of her efforts to discard them, would sometimes intrude themselves on the lady's heart.
               As before intimated, St. Olef was on the most intimate visiting terms at the Abbey; there was no occasion at present to arrange secret meetings between himself and Viola, they had many opportunities of being alone together.
               The Count had most implicit faith in St. Olef; that consummate actor silenced all suspicions, and so completely lulled every lurking feeling of jealousy, that the Count was rather urgent than otherwise that his beautiful betrothed and his faithful friend should be often together. He himself was so much engaged at the Castle, hurrying on its alterations, and so much of his attention was necessarily divided between his numerous distinguished guests, that he was glad St. Olef should cheer Viola with his society; he fancied she was losing her bloom a little, looking a little pale from long confinement to the house, and being too much left alone. An occasional gallop on her fleet little pony with St. Olef in attendance, or a walk in the cool twilight would benefit her health. Thus legitimately authorized to be frequently with the affianced bride, there was certainly no necessity for concealment, he was acting for his friend; a sort of honorable guardianship, which few were worthy to hold.
               Viola's mother, too, seemed strangely blind to all danger. She, usually so guarded and careful, so watchful of every interest, was at fault here. But, in fact, this lady with all her caution and wariness, was more sharp than accurate in her judgment. She was so elate with the prospect of soon reaching the acme of her desires, that this rather threw her off her guard. She was rather occupied in preparations for the grand event of her daughter's marriage, than in watching over her present welfare. She also was very much occupied with the changes in progress at the Abbey. Numbers of workmen from different parts were busy there, some said that many of them came all the way from Paris,—but every thing in and about the establishment had always been kept secret from the outer world, and now there was no exception to the rule which had hitherto been observed.
               With all this privacy, however, enough was known to keep up the interest and excitement of the neighborhood. The old saloons were being re-decorated, and many apartments which had long been shut from the light, were being thrown oden and renovated. Many stories were afloat also, in regard to the prisoner there, the master of the house. It was said that his lamentations were heard sometimes even by casual passers by, and that he had been removed from one place to another, deeper and deeper down from daylight and the outer world, until no one actually knew where he was. Some dark hints were whispered, which considering the determined character of the lady, and her fierce, ambitious nature, were not utterly wide of possibility. Still, we all know how prone to exaggeration human nature is, and on how small a basis the wildest rumors may spread; and Madame, with all her callous worldliness, was too wise to compromise herself by any overt act. She always kept within legal limits, and those who knew her best, felt that there was no reason to give heed to these horrible hints.
               Whatever had become of the unfortunate man, however, Madame was apparently the only person who knew. The servants had no access to him; with her own strong hands his wife attended to his wants, and held his welfare in the charge of her own strong will. In these arduous occupations she surely had little time to watch closely her daughter's movements. And also it was her policy to conciliate St. Olef. She saw him interested in her daughter, and it had occurred to her that through that interest, she might hold him, should the worst come to the worst.
               Let it be said in her favor, however, that unscrupulous though she might be, she never dreamed of compromising her daughter's honor. But the Count was far from being her ideal; she was too shrewd to be blind to his defects. Well aware of his utter incompetence to direct any great undertaking, she wished, in case of the appearance of danger, to, be armed at all points; to have other resources on which to fall back. She had risked too much to leave all to the inefficient judgment of her future son-in-law.
               In St. Olef's ability she had the utmost confidence, and desiring to use him for her own purposes, she had put forth all her blandishments to win him to her cause; but like many other shrewd people, she overshot the mark; she did not understand the Subtle nature with which she had to deal. On the contrary St. Olef understood her thoroughly; he saw through all these labored efforts to bring him within the circle of her followers, clearly as if every step had been mapped out before him. He set at naught these ensnaring attentions, and treated with haughty indifference her flattering courtesies. Not that he made any effort to deceive—he was far too indifferent for that—but neither did he repel these advances with decision. With his loose habit of reasoning on all moral subjects, he troubled himself but little about the matter; if the lady misunderstood him it was her own fault—he had nothing to do with her misconception conception of his character. But he de sired to keep on good terms with her, for however weak and worthless her judgment might be, he felt that she would prove a dangerous adversary. It was his serene habit, if people were in his way, to put them out of it, if he could. He neither quarreled nor violently asserted him self; rather allowing another to seem to get the upper hand, than making undue effort to maintain his point.
               So he and the mistress of the Abbey went on their way undisturbed, and only poor Viola, the soft and yielding tie between these natures of flint, suffered the tortures of a susceptible conscience. But there was no one to have pity on her.
               How she despised herself! What a pitiable life of deception she was leading. Was there nothing she could do? No reparation she could make? Might she not, even yet, appeal to that trusting nature which held such faith in her, and tell the Count how deceitful she had been?
               All this she said to St. Olef, with many tears, begging him to allow her to ease her mind thus far. She would even have dared her mother's displeasure now, and told her all, rather than endure this constant warfare with her own sense of right.
               "She may strike me dead, Pierre," said the girl excitedly; "but it were easier to die than to live as I do."
               But St. Olef treated this complaint as he would the murmuring of a fretful child, alternately soothing and reproving, with an ill-disguised impatience. He did not understand these ingenious self-tortures, these nice discriminations of a mind susceptible and sensitive to the highest degree, and overwrought by the constant necessity for concealment.
               "What if your mother is deceived?" he would reply. "She has brought it upon herself. If the Count is caught in the snare it is his fault, not yours. They entered into this compact without consulting you; you were only made use of as a piece of convenient machinery necessary to their plans—it is all nonsense for you to trouble yourself about it,"
               "But," said Viola, "I have received the attentions and kindness of the Count, who intends these as tokens of—of love; I have received them in silence, I know; but if through that silence I have helped to deceive him; I am responsible for that deception. Let me go, Pierre, even now, and on my knees I will entreat them to pardon me, and will tell them all. The Count loves me generously and sincerely,—and oh, Pierre, I know what it is to love, and I pity him!"
               St. Olef listened to this outbreak with perfect composure.
               "If you do so pity him," he said artfully, "it is not too late to love. So leave me to my fate, forget me as soon as you will, Viola."
               "Oh, Pierre!"
               "There was a time," said he, "when I might have expected you to do this, when I might have urged that you should tell this proud Count, and your haughty lady mother, that you preferred the poor adventurer. Viola you did me injustice in the very beginning."
               "I know," faltered the distressed girl, "I know it is my miserable, wretched weakness that—"
               "But I submitted," interrupted St. Olef. "Did I harass and distress you on that account?"
               "No, dearest."
               "Now I desire that nothing shall be said at present. I have my reasons for this, and yet I am subjected to constant complaints. You are unhappy, dissatisfied. Viola, if it be your wish, leave me to follow your better fortunes,—I can buffet the world alone."
               Viola was utterly prostrated before this unexpected magnanimity.
               "I will never speak of it again, Pierre, never!" she cried. "Bear with me—forgive me—but do not tell me to leave you. What would the world be to me, without you? I will suffer, I will die—I will be any thing, do any thing—only say you still love me—only say you forgive me!"
               To which he replied that he would endeavor to overlook her childish weakness, her vacillation, and even forget her entire want of consideration for himself. But, having thus in a martyr-like spirit forgiven his injuries, he craftily refrained from saying that he loved her.
               The affectionate girl missed that ever needed assurance, but she dared not complain; it might be the want she felt was an imaginary one. She did not know; and so her simple heart was always left craving for that tenderness on which alone it could subsist; half sick and wholly wearied, it struggled on, poor heart, storing up knowledge through keenest suffering. Many natures are developed only through the intensity of their emotions, which stimulate and sharpen their other faculties. It was thus with Viola. She seldom reasoned, but she felt deeply. Life to her had been but a smile and a frown, an intense vibration of every nerve to joy or fear. And through these sensations her mind had grown, and her intellect was strengthened.
               A few months previous she had been a child, trusting, believing, dreading, fearing; she had grown to womanhood through her love.
               In the first flush of that passion, so new, so absorbing, she forgot all else—home, friends, occupations, all were indifferent to her; but as she grew accustomed to the exhilaration of the intoxicating draught, her nature expanded, what had sparkled and dazzled her seemed to give life and illumination to all things else. She learned to feel with, and have an interest in others. She sympathized with their hopes and wishes, their distresses, and disappointments. She knew that those whose cup seemed overflowing with the joys and honors of this world, might suffer unspoken wants for which no words could be framed. She began to question the depths of her own being; feelings hitherto wandering wild and unmanageable, curbed in their secret places, and thrust down put of sight, came forth to intelligence now. Seeing others through herself, she pitied and understood them. Heretofore the mere creature of impulse, she now awakened to thought and reflection, and even her beauty partook of this transformation. She who had charmed by her infantile beauty, now won the heart by something more subtle and unchanging than this; a something that traced upon her beautiful face lines of thought and care, deepening and heightening its charm.
               But St. Olef was not one to notice these changes; such a character as Viola's would ever be to him an enigma. All his knowledge came to him from very different channels than those Which reached her mind. Through strict lines of reasoning, through closest observation rather than through varied emotions he reached his object.
               He had always treated her love for him as the mere fancy of a child, a whim which could be set aside as easily as it came. Perhaps it may be that he was less cruel than others who more thoroughly understood the strength and depth of these finer sensations. In deliberately planning to break these clinging tendrils and thrust them aside when it suited his purpose to do so, let us hope that he was unaware of the ruin he was working.
               That time, might never come—but he was prepared for it. In the mean time he would let things take their course. He certainly would not allow his arrangements to be interfered with merely to gratify the oversensitive conscience of a weak and womanish nature.
               Poor young creature! perhaps, after all, none would so fully have appreciated her finer nature, or so readily have made any sacrifice for her happiness, as the young Count whom she deemed the source of all her misfortunes. He was so completely infatuated by her beauty, that he asked nothing more than the privilege of gazing upon it. It gratified his artistic eye; to single out the grace of every movement, the perfection of every feature, the exquisite purity of tint which marked her complexion, was a feast to him. She might be silent if she pleased; she might show no; sense of his devotion,—all he asked was to worship. Had he been exacting, it would have been comparatively easy for Viola to show decidedly the state of her feelings. But if she capriciously refused to walk with him, to use his equipage, or ride his horses, she was at perfect liberty to do so and no word or look of reproof indicated that she had given offence. If she declined a beautiful boquet, alleging that its 
                     fragance
                     fragrance
                   overpowered her, it was all the same—he gave her no opportunity of letting him know that his attentions were disagreeable to her. What then was she to do? He rested so securely on that compact which she by her weak submission had sanctioned, that there was no room to doubt, and, therefore, Viola was fain to continue quiescent and wait, for better things.
               And thus matters rested while all these busy preparations were going on; Viola, the principal object of attention, and the center of excitement and interest, was the most wretched of all. Oh! if she could be but for one hour with Helena, her strong good sense would help her out of all these meshes that surrounded her. She wrote to Helena, while the burning tears that fell from her eyes nearly obliterated the words as they came, begging her, for the sake of their long friendship to visit her a while.
               Yet, if Viola was most wretched in the midst of her glittering preparations, and the eclat of coming honors, there was another who was almost equally perplexed and utterly at her, wit's end. Madame, the lady mother, was in sore tribulation; a new misfortune had befallen,—her husband was very ill.
               The life they had lived together certainly did not seem to afford much ground for grief at the prospect of his demise, but it was exceedingly inconvenient that he should die just now. Everything was so culminating to the right point, she dreaded any intermission that should mar the brilliant programme. Beside, she was aware that many unpleasant rumors were afloat, and how could she silence suspicion should anything happen just now?
               She had but one hope, and that was to get the young pastor Renshawe to visit the maniac, who had talked and raved, so much about the young man, and wept and craved to see him so earnestly, that it occurred to Madame a meeting between the two might prolong her husband's life until the eventful wedding was over. This however, must be accomplished with strictest secrecy, and how could she bring it about?
               In her extremity she applied to St. Olef. To her astonishment he at once entered into her plan. Certainly; it was a laudable idea; if she would leave it to him, he would accomplish it.
               A strange light shone in his eye; an unwonted activity took possession of him. He grew more considerate of Viola, conversed with her more kindly, and entered with apparent interest into the subjects that interested her.
               Occasionally they talked of Helena. It was strange what hold this young girl had taken upon the cold, passionless nature of St. Olef,—to what was it urging him?
               It sometimes happened that after an animated conversation, in which Viola had poured out all her love for her friend, her more than sister, a frown would gather so darkly on St. Olef's brow, that his companion, becoming alarmed, would timidly entreat him to smile upon her once more. Then, rousing himself, the young man would throw off this cold and absent mood, and charm the infatuated girl once again by that fascination of voice and manner which he could so readily call into his service.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE TROOPS.
               THE little town of Neuchatel, nestling so unpretendingly at the foot of the stately Jura, is, as the reader knows, usually a very orderly and quiet little town. The same routine of every-day pursuits occupies its thrifty inhabitants year after year. The ordinary changes which fall to the lot of all men, sickness, sorrow and death, are all that disturb its serenity.
               Suddenly, however, at the time of which we write, without any warning, the sleepy Neuchatel awoke one day, to find itself the center of a busy, bustling throng—a mixed and motley crowd of people coming and going. Military men, working men, and peasants in holiday guize, crowded its narrow streets, and assembled under the shadow of its overhanging roofs.
               This was in the fall of the year 18—.
               The people of Neuchatel, however, were not to be discomfited by the presence of strangers. The town lay, as it were, in the passage-way across the mountains; a frontier town, looking down on the rest of the world from its eyrie above the hubbub, it was accustomed to the appearance of travellers, who passed through it on their way to the 
                     mountans
                     mountains
                   and glaciers beyond.
               But the present accession to the town was of a rather more attractive order. Young military men in gay uniforms paraded the streets—and officers on their prancing steeds drew to their windows the most staid among the good wives of the burghers.
               As usual, these soldiers drew after them another class—the idle, the thriftless, and the curious. Workmen, also, sauntered about, or hung around the tavern doors, with lazy, half-defiant air, gazing on the showy wearers of uniform, as if to say, "I am quite as good as you, and can be as idle, if I please!"
               Numbers of countrymen, in their smock-frocks and homespun suits, thronged the market-place, mingling with the townsfolk, apparently forgetful that this was the busy season of the year, when farmers Were gathering in their harvests, housing their cattle, and preparing for winter.
               Bustle and excitement had taken the place of the sleepy quiet of the streets. What with the brilliant uniforms, the curious crowd, the hurrying to and fro, a new atmosphere for a time pervaded them.
               Every one expected that to-day might be the last of it—but every one waited, looking on as his neighbor did, as if unconsciously lingering until the advent of some expected event.
               Beside, these officers and military men commanded, everywhere, the respect of the liberty loving Swiss, as belonging to the army of Italy which had struggled so long and so bravely to throw off the hated Austrian yoke. They were hailed as among the champions of human advancement; for in those memorable times, sympathy in a common cause made a common brotherhood among all opposed to tyranny. Even the dignitaries of Neuchatel were disposed to do honor to those whom they regarded as heroes. They invited the companies to examine their public institutions, accompanied them on a visit of inspection to the military school at Thun, and ordered a review of the young cadets, and that military honors should be paid the visiters.
               Every one was completely blinded.—Even the shrewd Mayor of Berne came to invite them to his city, where a general holiday was to be given, and a volunteer parade to take place.
               This invitation, to be sure, had been long in prospect as a compliment to St. Olef, the guest of Lady Orilia; for whom, in spite of her decided rebuff, the good Mayor still retained the same tender penchant as before.
               The simple Mayor of Berne, with all his pomposity, was by no means a difficult personage to deceive; his discernment of character as well as his analytical powers were of an extremely limited description. Like good old Madame Ponson, he had at first received a very favorable impression of St. Olef, and like that good lady, he still retained the favorable impression, though for very different reasons.
               She, too self-depreciating, would not venture to doubt, or think her doubts of the slightest importance; St. Olef was the guest of her honored friend, Lady Orilia, that was enough for her. The worthy Mayor, self-sufficient and deeply impressed with his own importance, could not conceive that any one would dare attempt to impose upon so astute a man as himself.
               A special invitation was sent to Lady Orilia, and to Helena. It was expected to be a day of general hilarity.
               
               But Lady Orilia, as might be expected, did not care to enter into these festivities; she was too anxious about many things. She had strange misgivings, nameless fears—an uneasy sense of coming evil, for which she could not; account.
               She would be glad when all this excitement was over, and they could return to their old quiet once more.
               Helena had also thought it best to decline the invitation; she had made it a sacred duty lately to keep as much as possible out of St. Olef's way. To be sure he had not pushed his attentions, or troubled her in any manner since that evening at the Chateau, when he had assumed the character of a mentor, and had wounded her feelings by his strange looks and questions. Yet there was something in his bearing toward her that rendered Helena uneasy; she therefore preferred remaining at home to accepting his escort. This serene spirit of resignation, however, was broken in upon by the arrival of a young friend from town, who was greatly excited with regard to the grand gala-day in prospect. All the old gentry of the town would be there. Helena must certainly go with her; only her papa and mamma and herself would be in the barouche; she must have Helena's company—and oh, it would be such a splendid drive!
               So the young girl rattled on, until Helena really began to feel her resolution to remain at home quite shaken. It also occurred to her that this might be a good opportunity to see Viola, from whom she had so long been estranged. In all these busy months they had only once or twice met each other, and then only for a moment. Helena had been a little, just a little hurt by this apparent neglect. She thought that Viola might have sent an occasional note or a friendly message by St. Olef. She had herself often dispatched a pleasant little epistle by Guiseppe, who in attendance on his master was often coming and going between the Chateau and the Abbey. These epistles had been most carefully worded to pass safely the inspection of Viola's mother; but no answer had ever been returned. Helena, knowing the timidity of Viola, and the awe in which she stood of this haughty parent, who objected decidedly to her daughter's intimacy at the Chateau, excused her friend. The novelty of Viola's position, and her brilliant expectations, were enough to draw her mind away from old associations. Knowing Viola's loving heart, Helena forgave the slight, if slight it were.
               She resolved to join the party to Berne, and endeavor there to obtain a glimpse, at least, of her friend.
               While the young girls were gaily occupied in talking over their plans, a note was handed to the Lady Orilia; the maid who brought it in said that the bearer of the missive had been directed to wait for an answer.
               The note proved to be from the Abbe Vinett, and Lady Orilia was glad to hear that he had partially recovered from his late severe illness. But it was not concerning his health that the Abbe wrote. Something he deemed far more important weighed heavily on his mind; something that he approached with cautious and carefully guarded expressions.
               Honor, he said, commanded him to silence, but his profound regard for a long-tried friend, urged him to speak. He desired that she would, without question or delay, dispatch a trusty messenger to the General her father, urging him to hasten at once to her side. The Abbe concluded by entreating her to pay attention to his suggestion, and weigh his words well.
               This was strange advice, but the Lady Orilia knew there must be some hidden meaning in it. The Abbe was not one to be troubled with fancies, or alarmed without occasion. She was disposed to act upon his advice—but where could she find a trusty messenger? She at once communicated this difficulty to her friend.
               He was prepared for this, and had interested his American friend, who was also the guest of Madame Renshawe and her son.
               Under solemn assurances of secrecy, the Abbe had communicated to this gentleman sufficient to enlist his chivalrous sympathy for the lady and those under her charge. He volunteered to carry a message to the General, and assist him in the hasty journey which would be necessary to bring him at once to his daughter's protection.
               Losing not a moment, the kindly stranger set out on his journey; a journey fraught with peril should its object be discovered.
               Many animated groups, on their way to Berne in holiday attire, enlivened the road as he passed; but he scarcely paused to note their gay costumes and light-hearted faces, for the errand on which he went was urgent, and the time very brief.
               He was to traverse the lonely valley beyond, to make his way over many a slippery pathway, where a single false step would precipitate both horse and rider into the yawning gulf below; he was to descend the precipitous mountain sides in the darkness of night, hastening on without rest until he reached the famous gallery of the "Traversette," emerging whence, he should gladden his eyes with the wide spreading plains of that sunny land whither he was bound.
               But to return to the auspicious day of the Berne celebration. A bright and beautiful day; not a cloud was visible; the air was most exhilarating—cool, yet not enough so to render any winter wrappings necessary, and the young people bloomed put in all their summer finery.
               The old city of Berne, standing on its elevated promontory, presented a most novel aspect to the looker-on. Its high garden-terraces, rising one above another, crowned with the aristocratic residences of wealthy burghers, had an imposing effect. The swift flowing Aar, like a glistening band, nearly surrounded the city, sometimes foaming in a descending cascade, sometimes rushing rapidly onward, a clear bright joyous stream, flashing in the sunlight.
               On this morning the steep ascent to the principal streets of the city was crowded with vehicles, toiling up with their gay loads, and throngs were gathering in the open squares. In these squares a picturesque scene now presented itself. The brilliant uniform of the soldiery, the gay costumes of the peasantry from the country and villages around, formed a quaint and varied picture, animated and piquant. The men, in their homespun suits, bright-colored vests and gay bow-knots, rivaled but could not outshine the matrons and maidens in their short skirts, aprons of red, yellow and green, their floating ribbons, and their immense sleeves, flapping out from the universal black velvet bodice. They were certainly more odd than beautiful, with their unbecoming skullcaps, fitting tightly to the head, and split up the back to allow the long braids to fall down over the shoulder. Still they were pleasant to look upon, with their bronzed faces beaming with good-humor.
               There was little variety in the style of costume among the different classes of peasantry, though doubtless among themselves they recognized as distinctive tokens of wealth and position as did their aristocratic neighbors. Some wore a far greater number of ornaments than others; their silver chains were longer and heavier; they wore rings on their fingers, and large showy brooches confined the velvet bands around their throats, while their prim caps were set off with finer lace or fringe. But to the uninitiated eye they all appeared very much alike. The little girls were their mothers in miniature, and the blooming maidens wore the same costume with very slight modification.
               In the middle and upper classes of all communities we find few of those marked traits which distinguish the lower. Education and general intelligence assimilate all to a common standard; and even here, among the Swiss, the fashions among the, Wealthy classes were borrowed from Paris, and the ladies might have rivaled the French dames themselves in the exquisite perfection of their toilets.
               There were some splendidly attired personages sonages in the stately equipages of the old grandees, as well as in the more modern vehicles of the wealthy burghers; lovely faces and smiling eyes looked out complacently on the gay scene. But few were so altogether lovely as Viola, or so magnificently arrayed as her mother.
               It was a proud day for this haughty spirited woman. She was the tacitly acknowledged head of all this pomp and parade—she was the "observed of all observers." Flattered, complimented, and besieged with introductions, not one in all the throng bore themselves more regally, or covered an uneasy heart with a calmer exterior.
               The Count sat opposite Viola, fairly absorbed in her beauty, and the happiness of his situation.
               Viola had caught sight of Helena in the crowd, and flung a joyous kiss to her. She was more than usually animated, and as the young military men were brought up to the carriage to be introduced by St. Olef, she joined her mother in receiving them, with a grace and spirit that charmed them, and many were the whispered comments on her beauty, till St. Olef turned away, quite satiated with hearing her praises. His eye rested with a sense of relief upon Helena, who with her party now approached. He noticed the quick glance of affection that passed between herself and Viola; and again that softened feeling stole over him which he had at times experienced when, a privileged invalid, he chatted with the two at twilight in some quaint and quiet nook at the Chateau. A rare feeling—a half-unconscious questioning whether there might not, after all, be something better and purer than the world had yet furnished in his short and eventful life.
               As he reined in his steed, and stood for a moment conversing with Helena, this brief but better mood made his face luminous; she thought that she had never seen him look so well—so honest and sincere—so free from that supercilious aspect and manner, which was at all times peculiarly distasteful to her.
               The good Mayor of Berne was this day in his element. He received all the visiters with courteous familiarity and condescension. To Madame and her party he was particularly attentive. That lady knew well how to touch his vanity, and as he deprecated his poor means of entertainment she increased in praises and compliments. Followed by the officers and St. Olef, he conducted the lady and her party through the principal public buildings—escorted them to the great clock tower, the minster, with its exterior and interior antiquities, its immense organ, its long windows of painted glass, with their quaint devices. Thence to the Museum, and the town library, where the impatient young gentlemen were entertained with a long dissertation on the antiquity of the country, the variety of its minerals, its geological wonders, and many more deep and scientific subjects, until, if their inward epithets of weariness and vexation could have been put into print, the list would have astonished the good Mayor, more than even those wonderful curiosities upon which he was complacently dilating.
               But all things must come to an end. The mayor's' discourse came to an end; the grand dinner succeeding it came to an end; the parade was over—the music had ceased—the crowd was fast dispersing, and all who had come from a distance set out on their homeward way; the streets were thronged with the returning revelers—papas and mammas rejoicing to reach once more their quiet homes, and young people regretful that the gala-day was over.
               Their regrets, however, were softened by the fact that many of them had on this day received invitations to a grand ball at the Abbey. The excuse for the shortness of time given for preparation was, that the young officers in whose honor it was given were obliged to return to their military duties after this period.
               The prospect of the ball created another flutter among people, and Madame was voted the most charming and considerate of women.
               Invitations had been received at Le Petit tit Chateau, but Madame had not called. The ladies of the Chateau gave little attention to the matter; they did not intend going, and therefore could not enter into the general excitement on the subject.
               From the entertainment at Berne St. Olef returned alone. The old passions were again inflamed; the old vindictiveness, which had been partially slumbering, again wakened to life. The day had not been entirely satisfactory to him. Early in the afternoon, as he stood by Helena's side, fascinated as he always was by the indescribable feeling of rest which influenced him when in her presence, an incident had occurred which disturbed somewhat his pleasant self-complacency.
               The two were chatting together lightly and carelessly;—St. Olef had just made some remark, and was awaiting an answer, when he saw a change in her countenance, and a bright flush overspread her cheek, as she bowed to some one in the distance. She forgot to make any reply to St. Olef, and turning in the direction whither she was glancing, he recognized the hated countenance of Rudolph Renshawe, the late pastor of Aesch.
               His impulse at the moment was to rush upon the intruder, and strike him to the earth—but restraining himself he proceeded with the conversation as if nothing unusual had occurred. When he looked again the young man was gone.
               Soon after this St. Olef disappeared; he was missed, but no one knew which way he had taken.
               Not long after, a panting steed, breathless from spur of a furious rider, stopped at the gates of Le Petit Chateau, and leaping from the saddle, St. Olef called for Guiseppe. Guiseppe, the ever-ready, was at hand. Master and servant held a whispered consultation for a few moments, after which Guiseppe led the weary horse to the stable, and returning spent the evening in St. Olef's private apartments.
               Ursula was watching these movements. She had seen St. Olef, even before he had emerged from the forest road leading to the open ground before the gate. Her keen intuitions; now unnaturally active, told her that there was some special meaning in all this. Darkness, closing around, found her in her old hiding-place, breathless and listening. Little could she gather even by closest attention; the two were very cautious, and spoke low; but enough came to her ears to confirm her worst suspicions.
               Poor girl she could scarcely restrain a groan of anguish, but she knew that any betrayal of her feelings would bring certain death to more than herself. Often had Guiseppe impressed upon her that those she most wished to save would be the first sacrifice, should it be discovered that she was in the secret of the deep conspiracy afoot.
               She restrained herself therefore, undergoing in the effort all the first horror with which she had heard the fearful revelation.
               There had been an interval of calm—of hope that this terrible incubus, this shadow of impending evil, might yet pass away like an ill-omened dream. Guiseppe had been so kind and so tender of her lately; he had assured her that there was no farther occasion for fear, that nothing would come of it all. He had persuaded her that she had imagined a great deal—and perhaps she had. But here was the horror all alive again,
               Sharpened by former terrible experience, she could readily put these sinister hints and whispered suggestions together. They bore to her mind, very clearly, a fearful significance.
               But she mush be wary; she must not for a single hour lose sight of Guiseppe. She might save him yet from bringing this terrible guilt upon himself.
               She shuddered as she listened in the dark, till she feared they would hear her teeth chatter. Controlling her agitation, she listened more intently still. There seemed to be other complications; she caught another name—could it be? What fiend of darkness was at work? Surely they must come forth from this dreadful consultation with the dire secret branded upon their foreheads for all men to read. Written there in dark and haggard lines, would not her dear mistress and the sweet Helena read it and know all? Yes, surely it must be so, and then the poor Ursula need no longer go about heavy hearted, dragging this secret burden of wo and guilt! But she must linger no longer; she heard them stirring within; should they find her in her hiding-place, all was lost.
               Weary and anxious, she slept a restless sleep that night, and her dreams were of specters and demon shapes, on whose fore-heads were written all the sins they had committed.
               In the morning after this night of horror what was her astonishment to see St. Olef seated at the breakfast-table with his usual bland, unconcerned countenance, chatting airily with the ladies on the delights of the Berne celebration of yesterday.
               Ursula was haggard and careworn; she could scarcely drag her weary limbs to the performance of her daily tasks. The nervous exhaustion under which she labored was akin to bodily illness—but St. Olef had slept soundly and risen refreshed. There was nothing to disturb his repose. He had hitherto been troubled with a few obstacles in his path, but there was now a certain prospect of their removal; all his plans were working well—why should he not be serene?
               This morning he handed a letter to Helena. It was from Viola, who had entrusted it to his care the day before, urging that he would join his entreaties to her own, that Helena would accept an invitation to the ball at the Abbey.
               "Oh, do come, Helena!" she wrote, if you have any love for me, you will. I am so unhappy—you may never see me again, Helena! I have so much to say to you. Oh, I know you will come. You will not mind my mother—waive all ceremony—think only of me. I shall die if you do not come. You will need no escort—I will send our own carriage and man for you."
               Helena's feelings seconded this appeal. She wanted to be with Viola, to see and speak with her once more.
               The Lady Orilia entered into her feelings, and urged the acceptance of the invitation.
               "But I am not prepared," said the young lady, in much perplexity, "What shall I do?"
               "Go, by all means," said St. Olef. "I will decide for you, and at once carry back your acceptance."
               Thus the matter was decided. Poor Ursula gave a sharp cry when she heard that Helena was to attend the ball. But no one needed Ursula now; however much she might be pitied and cared for, still they could not follow up all her eccentricities. Even the good Lady Orilia, while commiserating the poor woman in her affliction, could only sigh for the time when the strange elements which caused all this discomfort should be removed, and the 
                     houshould
                     household
                   once more be permitted to return to its old peaceful happiness.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               THE BALL.
               THE momentous day was come, whose closing was to usher in the great event of the season—the entertainment at the Abbey.
               Expectation was at its highest. Beside all the flutter and hopes and fears of every kind, the prospect of visiting the old mysterious Abbey so long closed from curious eyes, was a great attraction. To be with those strange people who had for so many years been the center of gossip and observation, was in itself enough to turn the head. It was known that the most distinguished people would be there; the old lords and ladies, the titled aristocracy of the country, and the gay and fascinating military men.
               And so much was said, and so joyous and glowing the expectations, that even the papas and mammas began to wake up to the importance of the occasion.
               The invitations had been quite general. The Count in his repeated visits through the town and its environs, had lately shown by his courteous bows and smiles, that he wished to conciliate the good graces of the people.
               In these drives, Madame and Viola frequently accompanied him, and the gracious manner of the former, as well as the engaging beauty of the latter, had quite won all hearts. And now that Madame had visited them, and shown a desire to have them at her house, the enthusiasm was general.
               Helena was not altogether satisfied with herself in making one of this great gathering. She had always so disliked Viola's mother, and in truth so utterly despised her, that it seemed wrong to partake of the hospitalities for which she could make no return, either in respect or kindly feeling.
               All this had come to her most forcibly this morning, as she sat looking over her scanty wardrobe, and as usual, she communicated her troubles to the Lady Orilia, and they were discussing the matter, when St. Olef unexpectedly appeared. He had brought still another secret little note of affectionate entreaty from Viola, that Helena would not disappoint her, and still dwelling on the sad thought that they might never meet again. The directions in regard to reaching the Abbey were carefully repeated. Helena might leave as early as she pleased, if she would only come, that they might be together even for five minutes.
               There was no resisting this appeal. Ah, if those unsuspecting women had only been able to look beneath the fair exterior of that handsome, stoical face, which so courteously smiled upon them when this conclusion was arrived at, they would have read that which would have made them pause. Had Helena, even for an instant, as she bent over the loving words of the little epistle, glanced up into the eyes so piercingly fixed upon her, she would have detected something which not even St. Olef's art could conceal—something that would have kept her to the resolution she had formed, never voluntarily to throw herself into his society or accept any favor from him.
               But naturally unsuspicious, St. Olef's reserved behavior of late had put Helena somewhat off her guard, and she now unrestrainedly gave herself up to the anticipation of meeting her friend, and with the Lady Orilia's assistance commenced her preparations for the ball.
               St. Olef could scarcely restrain his exultation. He had risen early, even by the first streak of dawn, in order to accomplish the somewhat long ride to the Abbey, where he had engaged, if possible, to meet Viola. The meeting had been arranged at this early hour by Viola herself, in order to avoid her mother's suspicious eye; St. Olef had made one or two unwilling attempts to meet her alone, but these had all been very easily frustrated. There was so much coming and going; there were so many dressmakers, seamstresses and prying servants about, that private conversation was altogether out of the question.
               This festival, which was intended to cover the grand culminating event of the conspiracy, which crowning all their plans with success, should establish the Count's party in power, was also intended as a public recognition of the betrothal of Viola.
               St. Olef naturally supposed that on the morning preceding this grand entertainment, Madame's attention would be absorbed in other things than in watching his movements, and he had his own especial reasons for acceding to Viola's request for a private interview. He had feared from some slight hints that had reached him, that Helena was wavering in her resolution to be present at the ball. He thought another letter from Viola might assure the matter, and he knew that she would be only too happy to bring about such an event.
               Dawn, therefore, found him hastening to the Abbey, where, as he expected, he found Viola awaiting him.
               
               It might be supposed that the stillness and solitude of a morning ride among the mountains was calculated to awaken a purer, better state of feeling in the breast of the young traveller, and that all dark and evil things and thoughts would have vanished abashed before the tranquil and snowy silence of the dawn.
               Slowly the sun arose; not a sound was heard during the gradual kindling of that glow that was soon to warm the whole heaven. Brighter and brighter flushed the sky, till resplendent and glorious the sun lifted itself over the mountain peaks, tinting their snowy tops with golden hues. Then the morning began its revel of beauty; grayest cliff and farthest cloud blushed roseate in its joyous glance. As this travail of the early day was completed the traveller might almost fancy he heard the chime of bells, and the shout of applause ringing from peak to peak as the glorious birth announced itself.
               But no feeling of awe or special delight stirred the breast of St. Olef. He was used to these things, and as we are all apt to do in such cases, could pass by nature's most magnificent spectacles as matters of course, feeling no sympathy with her glorious moods, no appreciation of the splendors with which she greeted his coming. St. Olef was glad the sun was up to dispel the mist and dampness, but he saw nothing else in the fact of its rising that was specially worthy of commendation; nor did he pause to note the picturesque beauty of the old Abbey, as it appeared in sight with the gleams of light on its turrets, and the sparkle of dew on its ivied walls. He only put spurs to his horse and hastened on; this was to be a busy day, and there was no time to lose.
               Every thing was, as we have said, propitious; Madame was up, but fully occupied in a distant part of the house. Viola came glowing and joyous to meet her early visiter.
               "Oh, I am so glad!" she exclaimed, "it is so seldom that we are alone, now, and I have so much to say, dear St. Olef. Come, sit down upon the sofa, and I will take this low cushion beside you, or sit at your feet, as I used to do in the happy days that are past."
               "Why more happy than now?" he said carelessly, more as if he were expected to say something, than as if he cared for the answer.
               "Because," and she hesitated, adding with a deep blush, and a half apologetic air, "Pierre, you used to love me then I and do you know—well—I sometimes fear you do not love me as you once did."
               "Oh, you are a foolish child," he answered drily, "always full of some idle fancy."
               "I know, Pierre, I know that you and mamma always think me foolish, and that I only care for childish things. But it is not so. I would like to be wise—to do something—to help people. And I am so anxious always, St. Olef—you do not know how anxious! I know there is some secret thing transpiring,—something very serious. The Count has told me thus much, and I fear some danger to you. I did not like to question the Count, but I found that he meant you when he spoke of danger to some one!"
               St. Olef laughed outright.
               "Now do not laugh," said Viola, "do not, Pierre! I am so unhappy! I do not mean to complain,—but I do sometimes think it hard that you and mamma will never trust me. Did you tell me more I would not be forever imagining. I would rather know the worst."
               "But there is no worst about it," he answered, rather impatiently. "All you have to do is to enjoy yourself. You may be very glad that you have nothing to do with these weighty matters that your mamma and myself are so perplexing our heads over."
               "But I cannot enjoy myself," she persisted, "when I have so much on my mind. I was very silly once, but I do not think that I am so now. No; ever since I have known you, St. Olef," laying her hand gently on his arm, "ever since then I have learned to live in a broader world. I think more of others;—I wish to be both good and just. My poor mamma, (you will not blame me for saying this,—you have said it yourself,) is very ambitious—it is her weakness—and perhaps it is also her strength. To serve her, because you love me, you may get into trouble. This is what I dread."
               Even St. Olef was a little touched by these words. Dropping his usual sarcastic tone, he said kindly:
               "My poor, simple girl, how little you know the world!"
               "Then teach me to know it;" she answered eagerly.
               St. Olef shuddered: "God forbid!" he exclaimed.
               "Yes, do, Pierre. Confide in me. You are alone in the world, and I am almost alone. Papa is ill; I never see him—I dare not even mention his name—but you know how it is. And mamma—but poor mamma has been so tried—" she paused, and again resumed more cheerfully: "So you see I have no one to talk to! But I tire you, dearest, with my complaints," she said, as she noticed the weariness of indifference steal over his features. "Forgive me; I ought not to be so gloomy. I only desire to have your confidence that I may share your cares."
               How little the simple girl understood the nature of him to whom she appealed. That composure of indifference was to her the calm of infinite superiority. Certainly she ought not to feel wounded by it.
               If, when her feelings were wrought up to the keenest pitch of sensibility, he yawned wearily, or twirled his watch-chain, or kept time with his cane to an imaginary tune, Viola felt that this ought not to pain her. It could not be expected that he would listen patiently to such simple thoughts as hers.
               So she dried her moist eyes, and called up a smile. It glittered through her tears, as she said:
               "I ought to happy, because Helena is coming to-night! Don't you think she will certainly be here?"
               Her companion was now wide awake; this was what he wanted, and the very thing to which he had been endeavoring to lead the conversation ever since his arrival. He replied carelessly that he had some doubt about Helena's coming—perhaps Viola had better write another note.
               His word was law with Viola. So another epistle was hurriedly indited. And this was the missive which Helena received on the same morning.
               As soon as it was completed St. Olef was off. To Viola's timid suggestions in regard to her own unhappy situation, he had replied with an assurance that he would not allow matters to go much farther between the Count and herself, he would soon be in a position to assert himself; she must rely upon him and wait. With this he made his exit, leaving Viola in that unsatisfactory state of mind which had of late become so painfully familiar to her.
               She sat for some time lost in thought; dark misgivings chilled her heart, and the dim forebodings at which she had hinted in her letter to Helena, crowded her imagination. She felt that her influence over St. Olef was waning, but attributed this to the wrong source. The fault she supposed to be in herself—she was so weak and foolish—so unworthy of him. Her constant prayer was that she might render herself deserving of his love.
               With her to love once was to love always, and no coldness on the part of him she loved could alienate her affections. Too unselfish to reason that if this love made her unhappy, she should throw off its thraldom, she bore with her unhappiness patiently. She scarcely knew a moment's contentment now. To be sure, a few brief snatches of exquisite delight varied the bitterness of her experience; faculties long dormant and perceptions hitherto undeveloped bloomed into life under the heat of this passion; but, if they added to her joy, they also added an intensity to her suffering.
               The consciousness of the deception practised on the Count weighed heavily on her heart. He was the only one who had treated her with consideration—he might have been her friend! Oh, she was sick and weary, would that she could lie down and die!
               Neither was the mistress of the Abbey more happy than her daughter on this morning preceding her grand festival.—The summit of her desires was nearly attained, and her unbounded ambition was about to be gratified, why then should she be! unhappy?
               Every thing at the Abbey was working well; the din of preparation had almost ceased. A master mind had directed all the arrangements, and out of the brief chaos she saw developing the perfection she desired. Wandering through the rich saloons, now beautifully ornamented—the ante-rooms—the conservatory—the supper rooms—the extensive ball-room—she saw that all was exquisitely tasteful and effective. The servants were well-drilled; the banquet in preparation might have served a kingly guest and his royal retinue. With infinite satisfaction she might reflect that her own hands and brain had accomplished that for which she had toiled and schemed so long.
               She was now the acknowledged leader of society; her opinion had weight; her words were quoted; her fashions copied; it might almost be said that her intellectual supremacy was appreciated. She felt herself immeasurably superior to most of those with whom she came in contact.
               Statesmen had bowed to her judgement, and royalty itself had lingered on her words, while the beauty of her only child, and the position that child would shortly occupy, gave her renewed assurance of retaining pre-eminence.
               All these things were pleasant to contemplate; but the lady of the Abbey had other objects of contemplation not so pleasant; her step was not the light step of one with whom the world moves harmoniously, and whose heart is light with gay anticipations. Her brow was knit with thought, as of one who has much at stake. Though all things were culminating favorably, yet all things were trembling in the balance; some unseen hand might strike a blow that would frustrate all her plans. She looked about her magnificent 
                     soloons
                     saloons
                   as if she already felt it vibrating the air. And Madame was not a nervous woman; she had good cause for uneasiness; a constant skeleton lurked in the house in the shape of her unfortunate husband. And through him another perplexity had come—she was doubtful of St. Olef.
               When, a few days previous, fearing that her husband was dying, she had consulted with St. Olef in regard to the feasibility of acceding to the maniac's desire to see pastor Renshawe, she had been surprised at the ready acquiescence with which the plan was received. She could not refuse St. Olef's offered aid, yet in recalling his manner she regretted the necessity that had driven her to ask it. He was going this very morning to the pastor's to ensure his coming. St. Olef was a person of too much consequence to offend; she must bide her time, yet she was both suspicious and angry. Why was St. Olef so precipitate? She knew this man's ambition—he might yet betray their cause, or by undue precipitance hurry on events to their final ruin.
               But time worn on: the hour for the arrival of guests approached. Carriage after carriage rolled up to the gates, and deposited its gay burden. The great hall blazed with light. The wide saloons on either side opened gorgeous and glowing. Music from a full military band greeted the entering throng, and amid the perfume, lights and splendor, with the voluptuous strains harmoniously breathing around her, stood the mistress of the Abbey, smiling, and regally attired, with the Count and Viola at her side. She received her guests with an easy and charming grace; her eye was bright, her countenance tranquilly joyous, as became so glad an occasion.
               Fresh announcements were every moment made, until the apartments were filled to overflowing.
               Among others St. Olef approached and was formally presented. He was in full military costume, and bore himself with that grace and elegance of manner which always distinguished him, and even in this splendid throng made him conspicuous above all others. Viola could not but admire, and follow him with her eyes, forgetting all her troubles while he was near. Her face flushed with delight as he whispered, while he bowed low before her:
               "You are looking beautiful to-night."
               Proudly the young girl raised her head at these words. Praise from St. Olef was very rare and very sweet to her; she exulted in that beauty which without his approval was valueless.
               Viola was not given to analyzing the peculiar characteristics of those she loved, otherwise she would have noted a sudden and singular change passing over St. Olef's face as he turned aside. Was he recalling an evening, long ago, when standing in that same saloon, unnoticed near her side, his haughty pride had received its first shock? St. Olef had never forgiven her the bitterness of that evening. He had never forgotten that so soon after her impassioned avowal of love, she had looked down upon him from her momentary dignity with something of elation, and had been childishly charmed by the novelty of her position into something like even forgetfulness of himself. Was he gloating now over coming revenge and its near accomplishment?
               But another arrival was announced,—and the master of ceremonies presented a young lady to the hostess, by whom she was received with a chilling indifference. The young lady then turned to Viola, who caught the extended hand and held it with a most affectionate pressure.
               "Helena!" she exclaimed, "dear, dear Helena!"
               St. Olef now came forward and offered his arm to lead her away.
               "Oh, do not go yet!" cried Viola, still retaining her hand, and raising it repeatedly to her lips.
               St. Olef looked on with an interest surprising even to himself. He contrasted these two girls, each so perfect in her way—one all impulse and affection, the other gifted with a bright intelligence equally attractive—now meeting in this gay saloon with an affection as pure and transparent as the bloom on their young faces. For a moment a feeling of pity stole over him. Was there no staying the progress of events? Was it too late to avert the impending doom? He took out his watch, mechanically, as one in a dream: "The hour—the hour," he muttered, "what is the hour? A sound almost like a groan burst from his lips as he looked at its warning hands; but the sound was swept away in the gay current of the music, and the hour passed on. It was too late.
               The commanding voice of Viola's mother aroused him; she had been looking on at this brief pantomime, 
                     aud
                     and
                   now called her daughter's attention to other guests.
               The charm was broken; St. Olef was himself again.
               He escorted Helena through the gorgeous rooms, and fragrant conservatories, and pointed out to her some of the interesting antiquities to be seen about the old Abbey. Everything about the edifice was in excellent taste; in modernizing it to a certain degree, its owner had carefully refrained from making any innovations on its antique character; she had rather endeavored to restore its ancient beauty. The rich old tapestries suited well the dark wainscoting of the walls. The low, arched windows of stained glass still retained their quaint religious devices, and were illumined with waxen tapers. Between the great arches of the principal saloon came the perfume of rare flowers, and a glimpse of the brilliantly lighted conservatories, the effect of which, seen from this distance, was that of a vision of fairy-land. The immense hall, with its stone-paved floor, its low-arched beams, blackened by time, was a place of great interest to Helena; she almost fancied she saw the old monks gliding in and out the narrow doorways along its farther vista,—mumbling their prayers and chaunting their psalms as they disappeared again to their cells.
               The young people wandered gaily about through halls and galleries, echoing passages sages and winding stairway, chatting together as they went. Helena was in excellent spirits; meeting with Viola, in apparent health and gaiety, had removed her anxiety in regard to the latter, and excited by the brilliant scene and the enlivening music, she grew animated and buoyant. Her young friends, many of whom joined the two in their promenade, declared that she had never appeared more charming. There was also a certain wild gaiety about St. Olef; he seemed to have abandoned himself to the inspiration of the hour; he talked rapidly and brilliantly, like one who will not allow himself to think.
               But Helena must leave; she would see Viola again for a few moments, and then Monsieur St. Olef would be kind enough to conduct her to the carriage.
               The two young girls had, however, only a few stolen words together. Viola's mamma seemed determined that they should not remain long in company. But the friends assured each other of speedily meeting again, as they embraced and parted. It was still early as St. Olef closed the carriage door upon Helena. The moon was rising.
               "It will light us through the long forest road," said Helena cheerfully, as she bade St. Olef good-night.
               She quite enjoyed the prospect of the lonely, romantic ride, little imagining that anything more exciting than the solitary moon and the solemn forest shadows, would meet her on her journey.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               HELENA'S RIDE.
               HELENA could not have surmised, as St. Olef courteously assisted her into the carriage, and pressing her hand at parting expressed his regrets that she must so soon leave the brilliant scene of festivity,—she could not have surmised that the elegantly attired and smiling gentleman had no intention of returning thither himself.
               Entering a small ante-room, paid up with the loose wrappings, of the guests, he hastily caught up his cap, and throwing a short military cloak over his shoulders, darted out of a side door and left the Abbey unobserved, as the carriage slowly wound its way along the narrow road that swept around the ancient edifice.
               Could Helena have known this she would have been alarmed, for there was always an uneasy feeling in her mind with regard to the movements of this young man. Whence it was, or why it was, she could not define; but there was a sense of distrust, a vague dread, a something that made her experience a relief when out of his presence. Her acute perceptions indicated danger somewhere, but she was too inexperienced to understand that beneath the blandest exterior may exist the most consummate villainy.
               As the carriage entered the thin forest that partially environed the grounds of the Abbey, Helena was much surprised to hear the hum of voices. Looking out to ascertain whence they came, her astonishment was greatly increased; an immense concourse thronged the grove, as far as she could see, lights glanced among the trees, and at various openings tables were spread with refreshments—substantial good things, it was evident from the savory order that arose from the smoking dishes, surrounded by a throng of vociferous revelers.
               The young girl did not understand the scene, neither did she trouble herself to do so; it might be a part of Madame's new policy to conciliate the neighborhood in which she had so long held herself aloof. Probably she had graduated her magnificent entertainment from the nobles and aristocracy, from the wealthy burghers and landholders, down to the peasantry and working people of the surrounding country.
               With this thought she looked vaguely on wondering where such immense numbers could possibly come from; for even along the very road the carriage was traversing shapes seemed to arise and place themselves like sentinels on either side. The moonlight shining through the thin foliage of the partially stripped trees, shed a ghastly pallor on the faces that started up among the shadows.
               The young girl felt a sense of relief as the carriage emerged into the open country, and entered the broad road stretching for some distance along the level surface beyond the wood. Again Helena wondered at the snail's pace with which they drove along—but the evening was pleasant and she enjoyed the leisurely drive. She had left behind the hum of voices,—the silence and solitude were soothing; the only sound which broke the stillness was the occasional rustle of dry leaves under the horses' feet.
               The loneliness of the scene was not depressing; for the ever varied and abrupt changes of scenery in these mountain districts preclude such a possibility.
               Even in their most remote and glacier-haunted solitudes, the Alps, rising vivid and vigorous to the heavens, fill the traveller with a sense of joy. On one side, as far as the eye could reach, an extended plain stretched from the road,—on the other a steep, densely wooded precipice descending to the valley beneath, shut in the road abruptly.
               The moon glittered above the tree tops, looking down like a watchful spirit, over the solitude. A feeling of exquisite happiness filled Helena's breast; she was sensible of that strange change of feeling that comes only to the young and hopeful—a sense of joy without apparent outward cause. How much there was to enjoy after all! How much of beauty in this midnight scene—so much to enjoy, so little to fear! The old coachman from the Abbey was admirably steady and careful, and the horses were very sure-footed; the mountain air was so inspiring that the young girl fell into a dream-like reverie, more pleasant than she had lately been familiar with. The evening gaiety, the meeting with Viola, the change of scene, had stirred her young heart to something of its natural elasticity, and though the old griefs were not abated, they were for the time forgotten.
               Leaving the open plain, they now entered the gully, or narrow passage leading to the valley below. Here the road made an abrupt descent, but the horses, though plunging and rearing, bore them safely down, and the coachman drew up on the intervening level, to allow them to rest, as he said, previous to making a farther descent through the steeper pass below.
               It was a truly wild and dangerous spot. On one side high walls of rock shut them in, on the other a steep declivity seemed to cut off all access to the outer world.
               The moon gave but a fitful light through the overhanging trees that wooded the deep descent. The noise of waters sounded from below; it echoed up from the abyss as if some unseen cascade were rushing through the tangled heaps of rock and scraggy wild-growth beneath, adding with its throbbing and persistent sound to the solitude through whose shadows its ravings were uttered.
               Still Helena was singularly free from any thing approaching fear; she was well accustomed to these passes, and knew that a very few moments more on their journey would bring them to the level roads of the beautiful valley below.
               They had just started again, and were slowly rounding a curve in the road that brought them out into the full moonlight, when a figure emerging from the shadow, stepped quickly in front of the horses, and ordered the coachman to halt.
               The coachman at once held in the reins, although a touch of his whip, in this narrow defile, would have sent the animals forward with such speed as to imperil the life of the daring intruder. This Helena, remembered afterward, though at the time she was so started as to think of nothing but the present danger.
               Was this one of the terrible brigands of whom she had heard such fearful stories? She had considerable spirit, and was not easily frightened—but this was something so new, and coming at a time when she was lost in a happy reverie—it startled her like a sudden blow when one is asleep. Bewildered and stunned, she sat motionless a few moments, unable to utter a word. She was not, however, long kept in suspense as to the true character of the bold unknown. Coming close to the window of the carriage, he begged her not to he alarmed, assuring her that she was perfectly safe.
               But, unfortunately for the young girl's peace of mind, she at once recognized the voice, although the seeming highwayman endeavored to disguise it. She knew it was St. Olef. These assurances of safety, therefore, instead of calming her fears, only added to her terrors. All those vague suspicions of this man, that had so long floated in her imagination, now thronged in upon her with sinister meaning. An unspeakable agony of fear overcame her as he spoke, and scarcely with her own volition, she screamed aloud. She could not help it; it was the avowal of uncontrollable alarm.
               This reception was an entirely unexpected one to St. Olef. Helena was usually so full of spirit that he was prepared for a storm of indignation, but not for this, and changing his tone at once to one of threatening, he commanded her to silence.
               But help was near; nearer than she could have dared to hope. Upon an eminence above, two forms were for an instant visible in the moonlight; at the sound of that cry of terror one of them sprang with a sudden leap from the height.
               So suddenly, and in so unexpected a manner did the stranger make his advent on the scene, that for an instant even St. Olef's effrontery forsook him.
               Helena, instinctively shrinking back in the carriage, felt herself grow dizzy with a sudden sense of relief as the stranger stood by the door of the vehicle, on which St. Olef had already laid his hand.
               "Do not dare to enter there!" said a voice so stern that St. Olef at once stepped back, but at the same moment unsheathed his sword.
               "Who are you," he demanded, "that so boldly question my right?"
               This was asked with an air of defiance, but a certain tremor was evident in the voice of the speaker, so unexpectedly frustrated in his evil designs.
               Yet, indeed, he need not have asked the question; well he knew who it was—and so did Helena. That voice reached her heart with such a thrill of joy, of gratitude and thankfulness, that the sudden reaction from despair quite overcame her. For a few moments she was utterly unconscious of all that took place. She had swooned away.
               In the meantime the two young men met face to face on the edge of that narrow defile. The deep malignity of hatred lit their eyes, and set their stern features as they regarded each other.
               St. Olef was the first to speak; words were ever more ready at his command.
               "Ah!" he exclaimed with his wonted cool audacity, "I am most happy to meet you, Monsieur pastor! I have long desired this fortuitous meeting. Now for the prize,—to the victor it shall be!"
               Flinging off his cloak, he brandished his weapon, and with an air of bravado put himself in attitude of defence.
               The great moon, looking over the cliff, silvered the glittering sword flashing out of the shadow, and brightened the keen eye with a fiercer luster, revealing a most dangerous adversary; at least one that would have appeared such to the casual observer.
               Perhaps over confidence was his only weakness; he was not sufficiently on his guard. With him it was only a question of time whether to annihilate his adversary at once, or to gratify his revenge by slower means. Should he prolong this contest, and make his hated rival feel to the utmost the torture of knowing that the loved one so near, so almost within his grasp, could never be his—or should he dispose of the enemy at once?
               He paused an instant; his passionless face wore mingled with its look of defiance, a touch of derision that made it fiendish. And the moonlight threw its pallor over this face with the evil spirit looking out of it, and deepened the shadows in the ravine while that instant's pause was made.
               St. Olef saw before him the slight, youthful form of one unused to warfare; one whose pursuits he deemed incompatible with physical courage. He forgot to estimate the tremendous moral force of the soul—the unflinching courage of the spirit when nerved by a sense of outrage and injustice.
               For many months the pastor had been reasoning and struggling, trying to suppress the indignation he felt at the supposed success of a rival whom he detested. He had tried to think that if St. Olef had been more worthy of Helena, he himself would have submitted more gracefully to his fate. But to have this villain, who from the first seemed to have been revealed to him in all his moral deformity—to have such an one snatch his idol from him—it was almost more than he could bear.
               But the sense of justice had restrained him: although his heart should break he had no right to interfere.
               This night, however, had changed the aspect of things; it had revealed to him a plan of consummate wickedness, a cold-blooded, murderous scheme, unworthy of the Evil One himself. Every passion was roused, every emotion stirred. Vengeance, deep and unsparing, looked out of the young man's eyes as he regarded his antagonist.
               That fateful pause was scarcely to be measured in the briefest span of time; the two met at its close in deadly strife.
               The pastor had no weapon, but his arm, nerved by the avenging spirit, was all-powerful. With one determined, resolute blow, he struck the uplifted sword-arm, and the weapon fell to the ground. Before St. Olef could recover from this unexpected attack, he felt himself taken by the throat with an iron grip, and pressed back, back, until he fell, stunned and helpless, on the very verge of the precipice. Now would his adversary spare him? Not yet. The rage of his infuriated soul was not yet appeased; he would wipe the miscreant from the earth! Such a monster should no longer live to curse the world. No feeling of pity stayed his hand, as with one disdainful and mighty effort he flung the prostrate body crashing down, down the precipitous height.
               All this was done so quickly, so instantaneously that the pastor himself was as one in a dream, and but for the cracking of the branches as that heavy body dashed down from ledge to ledge of the precipice, he might have thought it all a delusion.
               The wretch was gone—the avenger lifted his head and drew a long, free breath. But not a moment was to be lost, he night recover—the fall, though great, was broken by the tangled shrubbery, and projecting masses of rock. Should St. Olef be stunned rather than dead, and return upon them now, there would be no mercy. Probably he might have others waiting in ambush who in the event of his recovery would be prompt to fulfill his vengeful bidding.
               The pastor turned to the carriage, and called Helena by name—she did not answer. At this juncture another form appeared upon the scene; it was Ursula. She had taken the narrow and circuitous path around the rock, and came rushing to the carriage, wild with excitement, exclaiming as she threw her arms around its unconscious inmate:
               "Oh, dear Mademoiselle, we are saved! Oh, speak to me, speak to me, dear Mademoiselle!"
               Helena did not stir, and wringing her hands, Ursula redoubled her cries.
               "She is dead! Ah, surely she is dead!"
               These wild expressions of despair roused Helena from her stupor. She rallied her bewildered faculties, and assured them she was not really ill.
               Having ascertained that this was truly the case, Ursula grew quieter in her demonstrations, and the pastor, quickly closing the carriage door, mounted the box with the coachman, and ordered him to drive for his life, and make not a moment's halt.
               Sullenly the man obeyed.
               
               On they hastened,—down the steep descent,—along the valley,—making not a single pause until they reached the quiet domicil of Lady Orilia.
               We will now explain, as briefly as possible, by what fortuitous circumstance the pastor arrived so opportunely at the scene of peril, and rescued Helena from the unsparing villain into whose hands she had fallen.
               Ursula, in her nervous excitement and agitation, dreading and watching for that event which she had vowed her life to avert, was too readily moved by every pulsation about her, to be ever taken by surprise. She had come to understand every change in the countenances of those two men whose movements she observed so closely.
               For the last few weeks a spell of quiet had apparently fallen upon them. Ursula watched and waited, and hoped that the evil she dreaded might pass away. But soon all her fears were roused again. She felt, as though by the communication of some invisible telegraph, that the elements of passion, cruelty and wrong were again stirring about her.
               It was on the evening preceding the festival of the Abbey, that hidden in her secret retreat, Ursula learned that the dreadful plot, instead of having been abandoned, had ripened thoroughly.
               Among the names of those who were to be its victims, she heard that of pastor Renshawe.
               In the morning, as she expected, St. Olef set out for Brienz, the residence of the pastor. As may be supposed, the latter was amazed on returning from a stroll to the lake, to find who was waiting his return.
               Good Madame Renshawe had invited the visiter into her prim parlor, and left him to himself. This was the hour she devoted to the invalid Abbe, and she suffered nothing to encroach on her duty to him. So her son found St. Olef alone, looking over the books on the center-table.
               St. Olef was not one to betray embarrassment, and while the pastor hesitated, and stammered out a few words of recognition he entered at once upon the business that had brought him thither.
               He was less supercilious than usual; there was a point to be gained; and when the pastor rather shrank from this visit 
                     to to
                     to
                   the Abbey, made use of all his powers of persuasion, and in the most winning spirit urged him to grant this request of a dying man. Was it not the pastor's duty to pay need to it? He need not see any others of the family; St. Olef himself would appoint a trusty messenger to show him the short road to the Abbey, and lead him to the bedside of its master.
               The pastor might have urged that he had given up professional duty—that he was otherwise employed—but his kindly heart could not resist this appeal to its sympathies. So it was finally arranged that at early twilight he should repair to the ancient church, and there await the coming of the appointed guide, who would lead him to the Abbey by the valley or subterranean entrance; a route less pleasant but more direct, and leading immediately to the interior of the building.
               At the appointed time the pastor stood by the old church wall, in whose shadow Guiseppe presently appeared; for he was the "trusty messenger," alluded to.
               It was now growing quite dark, and as the pastor followed his guide over rough rock, and through tangled underbrush he thought to himself that the way was not an unfit emblem of that poor soul's troubled existence, to whose consolation he was hastening. He recalled the time when following the footsteps of the maniac, he had wandered with cautious but weary step over this very pathway.
               It seemed a long and tedious time before the rude door was reached which opened into the passage-way beneath the building. Groping their way, the two entered. But they entered not alone. Unobserved in the darkness Ursula followed softly in their footsteps. Never once, during all that day, had she lost sight of Guiseppe.
               The eccentric girl, whose whims and oddities had long ceased to attract special attention, was left pretty much to her own way, and her repeated incomings and outgoings at this particular time caused no special remark. Toward evening she disappeared from the house altogether.
               She had seen Guiseppe leave the place, and following carefully in his footsteps, she kept at such a wary distance, that he had not the slightest suspicion of her presence.
               She saw him meet the pastor—still she followed—knowing well what was to come next. Fortunately the extreme danger of discovery had the effect of steadying her nerves. Through the overhanging bushes, through the thorny underbrush, she still pursued her way, and softly entered with them through the door, so lightly stepping that the dry leaves and branches choking the low opening did not rustle beneath her feet.
               Guiseppe now closed the door, notwithstanding the pastor's remonstrances on account of the overpowering closeness of the atmosphere in this dismal, vaultlike place. The only answer to these remonstrances was a gruff reply in a foreign tongue, as the guide pushed to the heavy structure, and proceeded on his way.
               Still the pastor's suspicions were not aroused. He hastened to grope his way along the slimy wall, remembering the steps at the end of the passage, which led to the upper apartments.
               Presently he called out to Guiseppe that he had found them. The reply was a peremptory order to remain where he was.
               "Stir one step farther at your peril!" cried the harsh voice of his guide.
               The tone of voice, the abrupt manner, so different from this man's general obsequiousness of deportment, startled even the unwary pastor; he thought that some unexpected pitfall opened in his way.
               "Peril?" he repeated, "how am I to see the peril in this pitchy darkness?"
               "I will show it you!" echoed the sharp, cruel voice of Guiseppe, hissing through the darkness, as though the speaker sought to lash his passions into fury: "I will show you the peril!" and raising a lantern which he carried beneath his cloak, the Italian threw its glare athwart the horrid, tomb-like passage, while at the same moment he made a sudden move forward.
               Oh, horror and confusion! what was here? The dim rays of the lantern fell not alone on the solitary figure of his intended victim. Another stood beside him. Guiseppe almost gasped for breath as the light glared on the pallid face of Ursula.
               "Woman, what brought you hither?" he cried, his voice almost rising into a shriek, as he uttered the words.
               "I came to save you from a deadly crime, Guiseppe!" answered Ursula, in a clear and solemn voice. "To save this young man's life—and your own soul from perdition!"
               Most cruel natures are in reality coward at heart, and this man was no exception to the rule.
               He could secretly spring upon his prey, and take a life with but little compunction;—but, to be discovered in the crime—that appalled his cowardly soul. To face a foe from whom he could expect no mercy, was more than he could endure. A panic of terror seized him—He turned craven at once, and piteously begged for his life. He laid all the burden of the crime upon his master—his master had bade him do it, and he dared not refuse.
               His cunning nature, swift and subtle as a fox, craftily seeking by what avenue to escape just vengeance, prompted him suddenly with a happy idea.
               "Monsieur," he said, in a tone of whining entreaty, "Monsieur will, I know, forgive a too faithful servant, who dared not disobey his master's commands—Monsieur will do this—and I—I will tell him something that will interest him, about the young lady, Mademoiselle Helena."
               The pastor had felt little save an utter loathing for the miserable wretch, as if he could spurn him with his foot—his wheedling, whining voice was merely sickening—but at the name of Helena, the blood thrilled to his heart.—He must listen; he must be cautious, he must hold this groveling eling creature still in fear, until he gathered all concerning Helena.
               He held his peace: he calmed his agitation, quietly he listened to the plan, the well concocted scheme to abduct the young girl. Right well he managed: the hour, the place, everything was revealed by the trembling culprit, glad to do anything, say anything to serve his own wretched life.
               We have seen the result.
               There was a farther result: as was quite natural, in the happy exuberance of gratitude and thankfulness on every side, mutual explanations took place, and all difficulties and misunderstandings were cleared away.
               This night, for the first time, the pastor saw the grandmother of Helena. She, the lonely recluse, whose self-imposed seclusion shut her away almost from the excitements and emotions of the outer world, threw aside for the time her self-restraint, and poured out her feelings to the preserver of her darling. Even the Lady Orilia was scarcely less demonstrative, for Helena was as dear to her as if she had been her own daughter.
               The unassuming pastor, who had very little of the spirit of egotism about him, began to almost feel that he was a hero, at least he felt quite sure, about that time, that he was the very happiest of human beings. To have passed safely through a fearful peril, and to be recognized as the deliverer of one so dear to him—to be relieved of the dreadful rivalry of a man whom he hated,—lifted him almost above himself. He forgot his usual reserve, and taking the young girl's hand, at the conclusion of her animated expressions of admiration for his bravery, and joy at her escape, said earnestly:
               "May I venture to hope, Helena, that something other than this—some deeper feeling may move you? I have long suffered with suspense—more than I can express—more than I can longer endure. Relieve it now, at once and forever: tonight I can endure my fate, whatever it may be. Can you not speak, Helena?" he added, with almost a cry of entreaty. "Oh for God's sake, Helena, do you—do you love me?"
               But the answer that came frankly and freely, almost overcame him with joy.
               Poor Ursula! how was it with her? though every means was used to make her understand the great good she had done, and how grateful they all were—the poor girl could not be comforted. All she asked, was to be allowed to go by herself. There was a deep wound still rankling in her heart, that no healing power yet could reach. She still clung with strange tenacity to the wretched, would-be murderer. But her feeling could scarcely be called love, now—for her whole soul recoiled from him. But it was pity, intense pity. What would become of Guiseppe, should his master meet him? St. Olef would certainly kill him! He had been betrayed, and would show no mercy to the betrayer—Guiseppe would be hunted down, and driven to still greater depths of depravity.
               Dimly she felt, without understanding, how strange a revelation this man had been to her. The little episode of gallantry had formed an era in her homely life; had quickened the slow, obtuse understanding, and opened a new world of emotion, of light and beauty.
               This had been her brief dream of love, and under its stimulant her character developed to depths and heights of which she had before no conception. But, alas for her, other depths and heights had also been revealed,—sin and suffering, as well as this fulness of joy. Out of all these conflicting influences the dull and stupid girl developed into the self-sacrificing woman, resolved at least to avert the evil, if she could not save the evil-door. But Guiseppe should never be anything more to her. She had always held him in her power by knowing his secret, but he had always told her that his own life and hers would be sacrificed the moment it was revealed.
               With this burden on her soul—not daring to tell—but watching, watching, she had staggered through the heavy months; and now she had accomplished her work. She had saved those who had always been good to her, and prevented that poor craven soul from staining his hands with blood. But, oh, horror of horrors! should he ever come near her, she would die of entire repugnance and dread.
               Shrinking from him with all the strong instincts of her soul, she pitied him still, and her poor, true heart ached with an anguish of dread for his sake.
               Day was almost dawning; the first faint streaks of coming light illumined the horizon when the pastor stepped upon the lawn in front of the Chateau, still lingering to say his last good-by.
               He had not yet left, his hand was yet clasped in Helena's, when a singular sound coming apparently from the town, caused both to start, and regard each other with looks in which surprise and wonder blended with a sense of awe.
               It was the roar of some great multitude.
               Again they listened: again that sound, low, ominous, full of unutterable meaning. Presently the dull boom of cannon smote upon their ears. They stood appalled; what could it mean? Was the quiet little place filled with an excited mob? But where could the mob come from?
               Poor Helena's strength gave way as she saw the pastor depart. She had passed through so much within the last few hours that her nerves were all unstrung. She feared,—all feared, some unseen danger,—but they did not, they could not dream of half that was to come.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               TO ARMS!
               TORN, bruized, and bewildered, St. Olef reached the foot of the precipice. His fall, broken by the projecting brushwood, had not occasioned him more serious damage than a few ugly scratches.
               For some time however, he lay quite unconscious, the suddenness of the descent, the powerful blows which he had received, altogether, had stunned him, and he lay for some moments motionless. But soon, ah, too soon, consciousness returned; bitterly and slowly each remembrance came back with all its humiliating distinctness. He groaned, and ground his teeth in impotent rage.
               "And she saw it all!" he muttered, "my bravado—curses on my folly! And that pale-faced parson, whom I spurned—he brought me to this pass!" Convulsed with passion, he clenched his hands and struck the earth. Ah, had it been his hated adversary, that he might have ground him beneath his feet in the dust!
               Maimed and sore he arose. His bones ached, his limbs trembled beneath him; still they were sound; and groping his way in the darkness among the tangled underbrush he at length reached the valley, where, sitting on a stone by the little stream which here found its level, after tumbling and foaming through the rocks above,—he endeavored to restore his scattered senses, and regain that equanimity for which he was so famous. But all in vain; he was wild with pain and anger; the more he thought, the more he thirsted for vengeance. Vengeance! The word glared through his mind with a lurid light. St. Olef was at this moment half a maniac—but there was method in his madness. He turned with cool, determined purpose, and mounted the steep acclivity. Deliberately searching for his cap and cloak, which he had flung aside in the encounter, he shook off as far as possible the traces of his recent disaster—and turned his steps toward the Abbey.
               The Abbey still glittered with its profusion of light where the revelers were at the height of their enjoyment; St. Olef's voice startled them like a trumpet, as springing in among the gay throng, he cried out that it was time to be done with such folly.
               Of course there was great consternation among the guests at this strange re-entrance Of one who had left them, apparently as gay and light-hearted as themselves selves. The music ceased, and the dancers stood suddenly still.
               The general impression seemed to be that St. Olef was madly intoxicated; all shrank from him.
               Madame now came forward from the inner saloon, but he warned her imperiously away. Poor Viola was stupefied with terror; all she could do was to pleadingly cry out:
               "Oh, Pierre, dearest Pierre!
               But St. Olef heeded none, cared for none; he walked through the fast-emptying rooms out on the grounds, and among the crowd. He commanded them in peremptory tones to cease their folly—to prepare for work! Several times he called for Guiseppe, but no Guiseppe answered.
               Madame, aided by the Count, had vainly endeavored to restore order within the Abbey: every apology was made for the strange intrusion, and every conceivable reason but the right one given for this unwarrantable rudeness on the part of the usually elegant St. Olef.
               People graciously accepted the profuse apologies, and kindly endeavored to relieve Madame's embarrassment. They had enjoyed themselves so much—everything had passed so delightfully, and Madame was so agreeable a hostess, that really they had quite forgotten the lapse of time—they ought to have been away long before.—So one after another left, until the great halls and lighted saloons were completely deserted. Carriage after carriage rolled away, until at last Madame and the Count and poor Viola, more dead, than alive, were left to occupy, the dreary waste.
               Madame was too indignant to notice Viola's really pitiable situation.
               "He has ruined all my plans!" she said to the Count.
               The words were scarcely uttered, when St. Olef entered with that flame still burning in his eye before which they unconsciously quailed.
               "To arms!" he cried to the Count.—There was no resisting the force of his energy; like a torrent it swept all before it. The Count submitted, like every one else. Stepping up to Viola, he took her languid hand in his, and with much tenderness bade her farewell. He lingered still an instant, as if he wished to say more—were there any unspoken premonitions, unconscious prophecies of longer farewells lingering around his heart? He, hurried on.
               Poor girl! it was as well that the Count never knew that not for him was that heart-rending sob with which she fell to the polished floor. He looked back longingly, doubtfully—but he sped on. Only the mother heard with bitterest anger, that cry, "Oh Pierre! beloved Pierre!"
               Outside all was astir. St. Olef was here, there, everywhere; disposing, commanding; his indomitable will putting order and purpose into the confusion of excitement and aimless activity, till all the swarms of untrained men assembled on that memorable night in the glens and woods about the old Abbey, were marshalled forth with true military precision.
               His was indeed a fitting spirit for such an occasion, and as the ranks, marched out in order, and defiled in front of the edifice, loud cheers arose for the Count, but louder still for St. Olef, who had in truth become as he designed, the real leader.
               The two young men, on their spirited chargers, placed themselves at the head of the motley multitude, which, though ill-armed and equipped, was imposing in its numbers, and wild for action.
               The Count's face wore the grave and stern expression of one who approaches accomplishment of a long-purposed event. An event precipitated a few hours sooner than he anticipated, but for which he was thoroughly prepared.
               But the countenance of St. Olef was blanched and ghastly under the dark plume of his military hat.
               There was no other sign of feeling; he was composed, efficient; apparently absorbed in the present excitement. The loud word of command was given; the drums beat; the military band sent forth its inspiring strains—and tramp, tramp, onward marched the troop—past the gleaming lights of the Abbey, through the flickering shadows of the wood, till in the distance the echoing tread and swelling notes were lost, as the multitude passed on toward the devoted town wrapped peacefully in slumber.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               THE UPRISING.
               AS the pastor approached the town of Neuchatel, after leaving the Chateau, he peered anxiously through the dawn for an explanation of the confused and tumultuous sounds that met his ear. His first thought had been that perhaps the government buildings were on fire; but no flame or smoke disturbed the morning sky as he approached the scene of confusion.
               Numbers of women and children, and even men, passed him as if flying for their lives. In vain he inquired of the fugitives the cause of their alarm; none would stop long enough to explain.
               "They are on us!" was all the reply, "the cut-throats—the rebels! The whole town is massacred!"
               And with such wild expressions, they hurried on.
               Venturing still a little nearer, he stood at length on the high ground overlooking the town, and the rising sun, emerging slowly through the mist and cloud, revealed to him the secret of all this terror and excitement.
               Flags and banners were flying from the public buildings; they decorated also the square, and the principal streets, which were filled with soldiery. Other troops were still marching in, headed by military bands, whose stirring martial music pealed through the morning air, and rang along the hills. All was stir and bustle; the pastor might have ventured among the crowd unnoticed, so busy were they in forming the line of march, and their officers in bringing somewhat of order out Of the chaos.
               Those congregated in the square were mostly of the regular troops, well-armed and accoutred. They represented many nationalities, and, with their officers, presented a fine, martial appearance. The most numerous were evidently the Italian soldiers, conspicuous by their upturned hats and dark plumes. Next in number and importance were the Swiss guards, with their full, baggy small-clothes, fastened at the knee, their richly embroidered jackets, and showy caps, French, German, and even Austrian soldiers, in their national uniform, swelled the ranks of this ominous gathering, while civilians of every grade, from the farm-laborer, in his smock-frock and heavy brogans, to the young adventurer, seeking for fame or excitement, but whose experience in warfare had not yet dimmed his dainty citizen's attire, added to the varied, eager throng pouring into the great square.
               Gathered here, no doubt, were many restless and ambitious spirits; ill-suited with the quiet humdrum of every-day life, anxious to be great, to be distinguished, to be something other than they were, but with no definite object in view, falling naturally in the wake of the first excitement, and following the strong impulses of other minds.
               Not so with the leaders; here, as in every other bold undertaking, they had a distinct and unwavering purpose to attain; their plans were well laid and deliberately calculated. The well-known revolt of 1848 had actually broken out, when the Count, in his mad ambition, made this attempt, based on the ancient power and fancied rights of his once powerful family, to reinstate them in the government of this independent canton of Neuchatel.
               But he had a secret and determined opponent in St. Olef, who from the first had seen the futility of such a scheme. He understood this freedom-loving people—he knew that they would never submit to the old, long exploded regime.
               They might be deluded for a time by brilliant promises, and visionary prospect of advantage, but a return to the serf-like bondage of former years was out of the question. Knowing this, St. Olef had with his usual shrewdness planned a more conciliatory course, that might in the end lead to all that was desired. He had submitted this plan, early in the proceedings, to the Count and the mistress of the Abbey, (who was one of the prime movers in the scheme). The Count had scouted the whole thing, he had but one idea, and that was family aggrandizement. Madame, however, saw the feasibility of the project, and she and St. Olef so intrigued as to manage matters their own way.
               The reigning King of Prussia held, as we have seen, a remote hereditary claim to the canton of Neuchatel. St. Olef's plan was to take possession of the place in the name of that monarch. He knew the desperate nature of the undertaking; in case it should fail he calculated to fall back on the powerful protection of the sovereign in whose name the attempt was made. This was to be their ultimate safety. The struggle had been for his interests—perhaps he might reward their faithfulness largely, even in the event of non-success. On the other hand, should success crown the venture, they could easily dispose of all difficulties. The possessions of Prussia Were so distant, and of so little value that probably a small yearly tribute would settle the matter.
               This course would probably lose them many staunch supporters among the old aristocracy, who still hoped for the restoration of the old feudal element, and also among the old church party, who hoped for the restoration of their former prominence, and would join in no undertaking which held out no prospect of this kind. These, no doubt, would have aided to their utmost ability any schemes promotive of their special interests, and their participation might have added a certain eclat to the matter, but otherwise they were not a desirable accession.
               As he was in truth the moving spirit in the whole thing, and was ready to throw them off, the loss was really less than it might have been supposed. What he most wanted was numbers, and greater numbers he could have were these parties out of the way.
               All these probabilities and possibilities were well digested in the clear brain of this wily intriguer, and in full counsel with his artful colleague, and the result of this was, that when the straggling army marched into the public streets and square, and planted their banners on the public buildings, it was in the name of the King of Prussia.
               The young Count when he discovered this was perfectly furious, but he could not help himself; it would be utter ruin then to take any stand to punish those who had brought it about.
               Indeed the whole thing was beginning to assume an aspect of disappointment, but he would bide his time and smother his mortification. He had expected to be married before this crisis, and to bring his beautiful bride, who must win the hearts of all the people, triumphantly with him, but as is known, the whole matter had to be hastened on account of the rumored arrival of General Acleigh, and nothing but disappointment had followed. He was discouraged, dispirited; but he must now throw these feelings away.
               He had not in truth, the stamina or capacity to carry this thing through; he was becoming conscious of this himself, and that he would be obliged to submit, galling as it was to the leadership of St. Olef; everything had worked well so far, the town was in their possession; he expected large reinforcements, and numbers were marching in even now. With all his depression, his hopes again began to rise. He was young, ardent, and impulsive, he began to imagine himself once more the sovereign prince, the generous dispenser of golden favors. And then he thought of Viola, his beautiful charmer, to be the sharer of all this.
               But we may imagine the consternation of the inhabitants living around the square and in the principal streets, when they opened their eyes that early autumn morning, and found themselves close prisoners, shut up from all egress in their own houses Many of them had just wakened from the deep sleep following the late festivities of the previous evening, and the, sound of marching men, and the hum of many voices, seemed but as a 
                     continution
                     continuation
                   of this revelry,—but a few moments brought clearer convictions.
               In a few hours their fears were somewhat relieved by a proclamation which was issued and scattered through every habitation, explaining the matter, and assuring them of protection to their persons and properties. But they were ordered to keep quiet and submit.
               There were many high-sounding words and great promises connected with this announcement, with an elaborate setting forth of all the sacrifices and struggles of the leaders of this movement for the good of the people, a movement which was to give them their true and lawful rights and liberties.
               Watching from his concealment, the pastor could see the insurgents handle their arms as though well drilled, and with an air of determination and vigor that spoke well for the success of the bold enterprise.
               The master spirit was among them; and the pastor gave a sigh of relief when he saw St. Olef, apparently unharmed, moving about the vast crowd with all his wonted energy. Yes, a sigh of relief it surely was; he had not killed the man, as he had thought, on that terrible night, and now the moment of passion was over, the pastor rejoiced that his own hands were free from blood.
               With keen insight the pastor saw at once how matters stood, and arranged his own plan of action. He had long suspected that St. Olef was working some mischief—that he was at the Chateau these many months for other reasons than the mere restoration of his health. The genius of his nature rose to meet the occasion. A spirit of indignation, strong and determined, seized him that these men, more mercenaries at heart, should dare to invade the rights of a free and independent people. The love of liberty and human rights had always been with him a ruling passion,—and as the plot revealed itself to his vision, with all the oppression and ruin that would follow in its, wake if successful,—a fire was roused within him that moved to action every force of his nature.
               Air fear was gone; life was nothing; he would devote himself to the task of putting down this ignoble insurrection. As he left his concealment, the spirit of a hero awoke within him.
               He, now approached, and joined one of the numerous groups gathered on the corners and streets of the old town.
               They were eagerly discussing a proclamation which was placarded on the walls, calling on all good citizens to avow their allegiance to their sovereign, and offering pardon and protection to all who at once submitted. It was also stated that all resistance would be useless; that every precaution had been taken to guard against it. And, should they persist in disobedience, it was threatened that the town would be destroyed, and the inhabitants put to the sword.
               But little did the invaders dream of the fierce spirit of vengeance that would be aroused in the breasts of these liberty-loving people by such audacious words.
               "Destroy our homes—butcher our wives and children!" they muttered, clenching their hands. "Ah, we shall see! Have they forgotten that we are Swiss freemen? That we know how to drive the invader and the oppressor from our soil—have they forgotten this? We can sharpen their memories, forsooth! Not by numbers, but by moral force, shall we resist the tyrant, now, as in days that are past. The monuments of the dead, among our mountains and lonely glens, inspire, to like dead to those for which they bled. We have inherited the spirit of those who died for their country liberty,—we also will die sooner than see those rights they bequeathed us wrested from ourselves arid from our children.!"
               "But we must act without delay," suggested the young pastor, "It 
                     it
                     is
                   only by swift movement, and taking the enemy by surprise that we can rout them from their hold."
               "It is still early," he added, "scarcely an hour past sunrise—and they are flushed with success. Triumphant in their easy victory, they have not, probably, guarded all avenues of approach to the town. Let us at once send messengers to Thun and Berne—to the armories there—for arms, ammunition and men. Let the messengers be at once dispatched. And let others be sent to rouse the country round, and to entreat all those that love liberty to come to our instant aid."
               This advice was at once acted upon. Indeed the pastor was, by tacit consent, chosen as their director. Following his counsel, every man set to work. Messengers were dispatched through the by-ways—fleet horses were ready for them outside the town—and they were far on their way before this contingency had been thought of by the insurgents.
               None were idle. The women and children were employed in making rude barricades for defence, and in cleaning up for use old firearms long laid aside. All the ammunition was gathered up, and many a rusty sword-blade forsook its well-worn sheath to flash in the sunlight once more. Among the busiest and brightest was little Bertha, with her intelligent, happy face.
               She had hastened from the obscure back street where she lived, roused by the first alarm, and now was active as a bee, carrying great stones, and tugging along with huge pieces of bush to assist in raising the barricades.
               Bertha was in her element, and in a fair way of developing into a heroine, when her mother, pale with terror, came seeking for the child, and espying her at her eager toil, called her to hasten home.
               "Oh, no, mamma, let me stay! The wicked men are coming here to kill us all!" she cried, and taking up her armful again, ran hurriedly on.
               Her mother followed, crying, "Bertha, Bertha, you must not stay here!"
               She reached the breathless child, and stooping low whispered something in her ear. The flush died out of Bertha's face; she dropped her load in an instant, and stared at her mother in speechless astonishment.
               "Oh, mamma," she gasped at length, "do not say so, mamma! Oh, do not say so!"
               It was a sad incident, the meaning of which was fully understood by those around. Bertha's father was among the rebels. But only pity moved all hearts as they opened the way for the pale, distressed woman, and the sobbing child she led by the hand, back to the desolate home in the little back street.
               As the morning wore on, matters grew toward completion, Every thing was being done that could be done, with the limited means at hand, to protect themselves.
               The pastor had not neglected the inmates of the Chateau: every hour a trusty messenger was dispatched to keep them acquainted with all that was transpiring.
               We may imagine their anxiety during these long hours. Such is the fate of woman everywhere. In activity men find an outlet for their overcharged sensibilities, whether of joy or sorrow—but women can only wait, in patience—in hopeful suspense it may be—or it may be in the torture of despair—the progress of events.
               The pastor had also written to his mother and the Abbe, in regard to the state of affairs, and the recent events that detained him from home. But he did not tell his mother that there was prospect of some fighting, as he dreaded to alarm her.
               But the Abbe knew all; this was what he had sought to prevent without betraying those to whom he felt himself bound in honor. Ah, this sometimes false sense of honor—how often true justice and absolute, right are trampled on to preserve it!
               The Abbe's only hope was now that the General might arrive. His presence might even yet serve to intimidate these rash men, and prevent open violence. He knew the General's influence over St. Olef, and that he was the only one who could exercise any restraining authority over that willful and ambitious nature. Oh, that he would come!
               Tossing and groaning on his bed of suffering the Abbe lay; a prey to every remorseful emotion. Even the attentions of good Madame Renshawe added to his distress, because he could not but think of the perils to which that son who was her very life and breath was exposed.
               Still the moments went by, and as activity ceased, anxiety grew more acute.
               The pastor too was calculating on the probabilities of the General's appearance. He could manage, and arrange, and suggest, but he had not the military skill to repel in case of an actual attack. The Abbe had so far admitted the young man into his confidence as to tell him the object of the stranger's mission to Italy. He knew the General was apprized that his presence was needful, and that no time would be lost. It was possible that he might come that very morning.
               He had not miscalculated, or placed too much reliance on the old soldier's forethought, promptitude and activity. Long before the messenger had arrived at the State Arsenal of Thun, the wary and self-reliant warrior was there, gathering the troops, sending on artillery and ammunition, and preparing to place himself at the head of all who would join him in the rescue of the beleaguered town.
               It was now near mid-day, and a profound stillness reigned on all those avenues of approach to the part of the town unmolested by the invaders. Most of the population had gathered in these streets and lanes;—breathless anxiety absorbed every one. They were expecting an attack,—it might come at any moment, arid no relief was near. Resolute, silent, determined, they were resolved to die rather than yield or retreat.
               Indeed the wonder was that the insurgents delayed so long their advance. There is little doubt that they could have disarmed and put to the sword the faithful, but unprepared citizens. There had been numerous alarms. The scouts sent out had reported several movements in the direction of this part of the town, but no attack was yet made. Perhaps they had sufficient work for their arms as yet in keeping their prisoners under restraint, and holding the advantage which they had already gained.
               The pastor waited, nervous and excited, in the most painful suspense. Yet using his utmost endeavors to inspire others with hope which he hardly felt himself. Succor would come perhaps too late. He felt this in his heart, but did not allow it to appear in his countenance; and moving among the anxious brooding faces, he inspired them by his cheerful and hopeful air, and his presence acted upon them all like a charm.
               It was a lovely October day—not a cloud was to be seen in the atmosphere; not a breath of wind disturbed the stillness about them, as they listened with anxious and throbbing hearts for sounds that might bring them relief.
               An alarm was raised that the soldiers in the square were moving;—the roar of cannon was heard, and again all was quiet. The sickening dread remained—the almost despair that help would not reach them in time.
               But they knew not the skill and resources of the old veteran who was hastening to their aid. Along the road—through the valley—down the 
                     moutain
                     mountain
                  , came his men with cat-like tread. Even the horses were made to step lightly, that no sound might reach the watchful enemy. And not till they turned an angle in the road, did even their friends surmise they were near.
               But glorious sight! On they came at last!—the old veteran and his sure friend by his side, heading a long line of trusty followers, with their glistening uniforms, waving plumes, and faces in which both strength and help were written.
               The rescue had come.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               THE REVELATION.
               THE gallant old General approved the policy of pastor Renshawe, which was to advance at once upon the insurgents, before they had time to strengthen themselves in their position.
               "You are worthy of your country," said he, smiling approvingly upon the young enthusiast, as he detailed all his plans. "Your views are just and statesmanlike. Promptness and energy will be our safety; but we must not be too hasty—we have still some hours to spare. It is necessary that we should know how strong the rebels are, and also what disposition they have made of their forces. Is there any one here who would undertake to reach the rear of the army, get on the heights behind the town, and reconnoiter with the aid of this powerful glass?" As he spoke he drew the instrument from his pocket.
               The pastor at once volunteered. He knew every path and turn of the mountains. It was a somewhat dangerous undertaking, but, though the enemy had undoubtedly mounted guard in every known avenue, the young man was sanguine of success; early boyish rambles had made him familiar with many a secret nook and hiding place, and he was not afraid.
               In the meantime numbers were flocking in from the country round, with all the arms they could muster. There was no lack Of enthusiasm, and the presence of a General so well known for his skill and bravery, inspired Universal confidence.
               The troops from Berne had not yet arrived—surely they would not fail them in this emergency?
               The good Mayor of that city was known to be a mighty stickled for forms and ceremonies: he might delay their supplies by interminable circumlocutions and tedious formalities, until they were too late. Still, they knew that-withal he was the staunch friend of liberty, and if any thing could rouse him the routine of etiquette, it would be such an invasion of the rights of his countrymen. So they waited hopefully, looking for aid from their sister city.
               It seemed a great oversight that among all the far-seeing arrangements of this conspiracy, any possibility of communication should have been left open from those in the town with those in the surrounding country. It was to be supposed that the wary leaders in the plot would studiously guard against any such possibility. But the fact was St. Olef was not himself on this memorable day. That excitement of passion, so unusual with him, that unwonted overflow of feeling, had disturbed the usual calmness of his judgment. It was the first time, perhaps, in all his life, that passion had gained the ascendancy, and he was like one unused to stimulating draughts, upon whom they act to stupefy and stun, rather than to stimulate the faculties. This mental intoxication, (not unlike physical,) created an unnatural and craving thirst—a feverish desire for revenge. He hated all things, and all men; he had been humbled, thwarted,—and clogged by this bitter remembrance his mind worked less efficiently than usual.
               In his brief career, the coolness and clearness of his intellect, unclouded by those varied emotions which disturb more sensitive minds at his age, might readily have given him a pre-eminence. Even older heads could not always compete with the unfettered, calculating judgment which no feeling ever warped. But a strange infatuation had urged him on in this pursuit of Helena, at the very time when all his hopes were staked on a successful issue of his daring political venture. Or, perhaps, we should rather say that a combination of strange circumstances conduced to stir the latent forces of his nature. This feeling could scarcely called love; certainly not that holy passion which seeks only the happiness of its object, that softens and purifies the soul to a kindlier appreciation of ail that in its way. Helena had pleased his fancy; and as he came to know her more had stirred some far-off tendernesses almost forgotten—they might have lived in childhood when an agonized mother prayed for her wayward boy, he had a dim recollection of some one who shed tears for him then. Had it been possible that this young girl could have loved him, have devoted her life, and sacrificed her all to that affection, this germ of better things might have borne fruit. As it was, the mere fact of difficulty and opposing obstacles, was sufficient stimulus, and made the great interest of his pursuit. He had determined that Helena should be his, and every hindrance but incited him to more fixed effort.
               Had Viola loved him less, she would have exerted more influence. His languid susceptibilities could not answer to the spontaneous affection of this lovely young creature. He needed the stimulus of jealousy and doubt to give zest to his enjoyment. This was the case in regard to Helena. He had long understood the young pastor's feelings toward her. When he perceived also, or fancied he perceived a return of that affection on the part of the young girl, the dislike he felt toward the clergyman became intensified; he determined to harass and disappoint him if it were possible and win Helena in spite of their mutual passion. He did not pause to question his right to do so; he did not care a jot for her affections: the triumph and gratification were all he asked.
               But alas! he had made an ignoble failure. He was stung to the quick. Vengeance was his only desire now; he was recklessly indifferent to his own safety, so that he might but accomplish his revenge.
               Yet to his consternation he saw that he was likely to be worsted everywhere. He saw his mistake,—too late. But he would not own it even yet:
               "It is that confounded Count," he muttered, and repairing to his quarters, he witnessed a scene that might have provoked even a cooler nature.
               The Count sat in one of the great chambers of the town-hall, surrounded by the paraphernalia of office, and holding high court, as it were, among those who, regarding him as the leader in the recent change of affairs, and the apparently successful "man of the times," were ready to flatter the young exponent of present power, and possible future elevation.
               St. Olef bowed low as he approached the Count: a smile, whose sinister meaning was vailed under mock gravity, played upon his cold, contemptuous face.
               "Your Excellency is aware," said he, with marked emphasis on the word Excellency, "that the national troops are upon us?"
               "What!" exclaimed the Count, in alarm.
               "Yes," repeated St. Olef, in a tone of almost satisfaction; "there they are,"—pointing to the open window—"right under our eye—almost within shot of this pistol," and he flourished the weapon in the air. "Those," said he, coolly, "are the Bernese troops marching up the ascent to the town." He said this quietly, as though they were looking out at the gay parade of a gala-day.
               But his words rang like a death-knell in the ears of those who listened. All was consternation. The Count rushed out, calling his men, to arms. The insurgents lost not a moment; they had been playing with their easy victory—but the terrible earnestness of actual warfare, of probable utter defeat, looked in upon them from the eyes of the disciplined, steady, unfaltering troops, who, with determined step, approached nearer and nearer. But the insurgents were equally determined—perhaps even more so—they were desperate men. Their all was at stake. The Count, pale almost to ghastliness, in the excess of excitement and anxiety, harangued them, urging to steady resistance, and promising unbounded rewards to courage and perseverance, while St. Olef passed swiftly from point to point, ordering, directing, stimulating.
               "The town is yours," he said, "yours with all in it, to do with as you choose."
               The General had ordered a halt, and his artillery having ascended the hill, he planted his cannon in range of the square. The opposing forces were now in sight of each other. He wished, if possible to crush this rebellion without the effusion of blood. Motives of policy also influenced this delay;—the pastor, having discovered a secret path by which a descent could be made on the rear of the invading army, had been commissioned, with a small body of men, to surprise the enemy from thence;—it was necessary to give him time.
               In the interim a messenger was sent, calling upon the rebels to lay down their arms, and offering unconditional pardon to all who should do so, and return to the allegiance of their native state.
               The proposition was rejected with contempt.
               There were a few faltering ones who would gladly have availed themselves of the opportunity to return to the protection of the dear old fatherland, but shame prevented them from standing boldly forth, and their feeble voices were drowned in the shout that rang forth for the King of Prussia, and his noble kinsman, Count Gruyere.
               The battle now commenced in earnest. The advance was ordered; and steadily the veteran troops moved forward, receiving the fire of the insurgents first. A few fell here and there, but there was no faltering, A moment, and their deadly fire poured into the enemy's ranks with such fearful effect that the whole line quavered. Still their officers rallied them with undaunted spirit, and prevented them from losing ground.
               Again the deadly volley came—and amid the smoke, the roar, the tumult, the rebel line swayed to and fro, as if about to break. St. Olef was furious; he ordered the cannon to sweep down the opposing ranks. But his men could not bring their pieces to bear: although long and patiently drilled, they lacked the experience necessary to efficiency in actual warfare, and their fire had little effect.
               Matters, began to wear a desperate aspect. The rebel officers made almost superhuman efforts to sustain their men, and none among them bore themselves more gallantly than St. Olef. He urged, he threatened, he cheered on the faltering lines. But, unfortunately for him, the men too soon saw the desperateness of the struggle. The skill and precision of the adversary's fire was overwhelming—and the unwavering steadfastness of the advance struck dismay even to the hearts of the regular soldiers who had joined the ranks of the insurgents. The leaders lost control—the columns staggered, receded,—as suddenly a shout rent the air, and the pastor's detachment was upon them.
               A cry arose that the Count was captured; the panic became general; the ranks were broken, the men routed—they turned and fled.
               St. Olef was wild with rage at this cowardice. Vehemently he urged them to rally once more for one determined effort. A few still gathered round him, resolved to resist until death.
               The General saw the rash young man, and his heart was moved with pity. Ordering all firing to cease, and turning his horse's head in the direction of the enemy, he deliberately rode forward. Many called to him, warning him of his danger, but he was not to be deterred. The sun was getting low; its rays shone ruddily over the scene of carnage, and over the tall and gray-haired warrior riding alone toward the doubtful and diminished body of men still clustering round their leader on the brow of the low hill opposite.
               The General took off his hat and waved it in the air as he approached; his silver locks and venerable form made an impression on the memory of those who saw him thus, not soon to be forgotten among the memories of that most eventful day. He seemed not alone the stern soldier, bent upon quelling an insurrection, but the pitying father, seeking to win back his rebellious children.
               "St. Olef," he cried, "come, my boy, come! Even now I will forgive you all!"
               The young man left the group clustering around him, and rode down the gentle tle slope of the hill. The setting sun illumined his face, but its glare only rendered more terrible the expression of 
                     hts
                     his
                   stern, set features.
               The light of hatred in those glittering eyes did not pale before the ruddy fires of twilight. A soul looked out of them morose, changeless and malevolent.
               Nearer still the two approached; they were now within a few paces of each other. The General extended his hand.
               Steadying himself in the saddle, St. Olef deliberately raised his weapon, took aim,—and fired.
               The ball entered the General's breast. He reeled, and his stalwart frame trembled like a reed; an instant he kept his seat, when his unknown friend, rushing forward, caught him as he fell.
               There was a universal cry of horror; but in the consternation attending the scene the assassin fled.
               He passed 
                     unnoticd
                     unnoticed
                   up the hills.
               Hostilities were now at an end; the brief but decisive struggle was over.
               On every side lay scattered the wounded and dead, and hovering anxiously in the wake of the conflict, gathered the waiting crowd, to seek for Mends, husbands and brothers among the dead or dying.
               The old General was placed carefully on a litter, and borne to a retired spot, away from the scene of carnage. He did not suffer, but his life was ebbing fast; there was evidently internal bleeding. He knew that there was no hope, and would not suffer his wound to be touched.
               "I shall live a few moments longer," he said, "if I am left quiet."
               A mild restorative was administered, and he breathed more freely. His friend knelt by his side.
               "Geoffrey Luperthorp," said the dying soldier, "my dear boy, you are with old Peter Ackley once more, in his great extremity." He spoke with difficulty, and there were sometimes long intervals between each word. "But you cannot help me now," he said, and raising the hand that clasped his own to his lips, "I love you, my boy!" he murmured.
               That big heart had always held a great deal of love as well as of hate.
               He paused a moment, and then whispered low,—"But it is all right, Geoffrey, all right.—St. Olef is the son of the man I murdered!"
               He seemed exhausted, and a cold moisture struck out over his forehead. Another restorative, and the face and hands bathed with cold water brought hint to life again.
               The strong man beside, him wept bitter tears.
               "Geoffrey, Geoffrey, do not grieve for me," he said softly, opening his eyes, and looking lovingly in that face now bending over him, "Do not grieve,—it is but a just retribution—yet I would fain have saved his young soul from the crime. Crime?—what did I say—my mind wanders—it was no crime, but the righteous retribution of Heaven."
               He lay for a few moments exhausted, as though the last sands of life had run out; but the strong spirit would not yet resign its earthly tenement.
               "Geoffrey," he whispered, so low that only the ear of him who bent low besides the dying man, caught the faint murmur; "Geoffrey, I should have liked to see my child—my beloved child. But you will tell her all. God bless you, my friend!" The eyelids drooped, the voice died away in a whisper, but still the lips murmured faintly, "It is just—it is just!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               AFTER THE BATTLE.
               IT can scarcely be imagined the fearful suspense and terror experienced at Le Petit Chateau during this day of momentous uncertainty.
               The house, from the time the pastor left in the morning, was filled with anxious people, coming in from every direction, vainly hoping the good Lady Orilia could relieve their fears. They had heard that the General, her father, was coming. That thought was some relief. Had he arrived? Alas, no. She was all anxiety on his account. Persons might be sent to waylay him,—he ought to have arrived before this.
               Messengers were sent to the town to gain tidings, but none returned. This added to the consternation. Some of the household, even of the females, ventured on the road toward the town, but nothing could be learned. Every place was deserted of all but the frightened women and children. They heard the distant crackle of musketry, and sometimes the booming of a cannon. These sounds were followed by a prolonged silence, which was more fearful even than the continued noise.—And so they returned to make their unsatisfactory report.
               At length, toward noon a hurried line came from the pastor. The messenger who brought it threw it to the first one he saw, and at once galloped away.
               It was to the Lady Orilia, who pale and anxious, yet full of courage, received this missive. All gathered round her to hear it read.
               The note stated briefly, that the town was in the possession of the insurgents, with St. Olef at their head. It also detailed hopefully some of the means in preparation to drive them from their intrenchments.
               A general exclamation of consternation arose when these few lines were read. Many of the village women present had relations in the town, and some had husbands, sons and brothers who had gone thither in the excitement of the morning, and were not yet returned. Anxiety settled on all hearts and faces as they listened.
               Poor Helena was in despair. She had been congratulating herself that the pastor was far away from the scene of strife, in the quiet cottage of his mother—and this news came like an electric shock. She had not yet had time to calm down her feeling and talk with the Lady Orilia in regard to recent occurrences, and the excitement and anxiety consequent upon this hurried passage of events may be imagined.
               And the Lady Orilia also was not without her painful subjects of reflection—but most painful of all was the reflection of St. Olef's deception. So hard is it to realize that the young, the gifted, the favored of fortune can be so utterly depraved, that, although her clear instincts had long warned her of something amiss, the defection of this young man was a stunning blow, sudden and overwhelming. United to this was her anxiety for her father—for the pastor—and for her friends in town.
               Yet she nobly set aside her own griefs to share the burden of others.
               Among those who gathered at the Chateau was good old Madame Ponson, and none were more confounded than she by the news regarding St. Olef. The poor, simple old lady never very penetrating, could not conceive how any one possessed of such fascinations, and one in whom she had taken such an interest, could be so bad.
               "Oh, no! my dear lady," she said, after deeply pondering the problem, "It can't be all his fault. No, certainly not. He has been led astray by wicked people, poor fellow! and he so young?"
               "I doubt if he was ever young," answered Lady Orilia drily.
               "Dear, me! never young! Why I doubt if he is over twenty-five at this moment. And he has had no mother's care for many years—or father's either—he told me so. We ought to be more forgiving. You are generally so kind, dear Lady Orilia, and think people are so good—why do you feel so hard to the poor fellow?"
               "Yes, I have had great faith in humanity, and been forgiving to many, many of its sins,—but I begin to fear that some (and this young man may be one of them) have no souls—they are mere breathing objects of flesh and blood, animal repeating machines, with little of what we deem humanity about them."
               "Oh, dear! Oh, Lady Orilia, I never heard you talk so before!"
               The kind old lady did not know of the incident in regard to Helena, and of the attempted murder of the pastor. Her friends would not distress her with the recital.
               "It is, my dear," she added, "because you are excited,—you are troubled about your father. But all will be right yet—and I am sure the poor dear young man will come back repentant—poor fellow! and so handsome too!" said she reflectively. "I am an excellent judge of character, Lady Orilia, and from the first I always saw a superior expression about him. Oh, yes! he will come back. Do not grieve about him—he could not find it in his young heart to be so ungrateful."
               She sat a little while, musing. Then a new thought struck her.
               "It may be," said she, "that love or despair or something of that kind has driven him to this excess. Excuse me my dear," turning to Helena, who sat looking the picture of woe, "do excuse me,—it was thoughtless to talk in this way before you. I always had imagined it was to our sweet Viola he was partial—but how difficult it is to tell in regard to these things!"
               With all her heaviness and weariness, poor Helena could scarcely keep from laughing outright, the kind old lady's mistakes were so ludicrous; and there was little use in putting them right, for she was sure to fall into them again, or others quite as absurd.
               With some people the mental vision is often dim and uncertain; it is enfeebled in the same manner that the physical eyesight is. They see things obscurely, and grope about in bewildering darkness, stumbling over unthought of obstacles, and picking themselves up again to proceed as before; and those not thus affected sometimes find their mistakes provocative of a smile.
               Our dear old Madame Ponson was one of those people whose inner optics are thus defective. But there was nothing malicious or distorted in her imaginings—it was an amiable defect.
               Perhaps in the jumble of wonders and regrets this worthy soul so innocently exhibited, there was some palliation for the heavy woes of those around her—they served as a sort of counter-irritant, diverting the attention an instant from the center of anguish. Helena's smile at these crooked conclusions, was of short duration, however; the dull reverberation of cannon, the sharp rattle of musketry smote on her ear and heart. The terrified women clung closer together with every repetition of that awful sound, and some of them cried aloud.
               As it drew toward sunset, these sounds became less frequent, and as the twilight deepened into night they ceased altogether. The stillness that followed struck chill on those waiting hearts; it was like the stillness of death.
               Helena had rallied her courage; she had endeavored to suppress her feelings, and administer consolation to those less strong than herself; she had looked at the calm, pale face of the Lady Orilia, and strengthened herself thence to endure and suffer in silence.
               Yet the Lady Orilia, though outwardly composed, was possessed by a fear quite unknown to Helena. What if these lawless men should be successful? With such a leader as St. Olef, it might be a more dreadful fate than death awaited the inhabitants of the Chateau. She tried to throw off this terrible thought, but as the darkness gathered, every sound without, every rustle of the leaves on the old trees grew ominous. She fancied the distant bands of ruffians marching on with stealthy footsteps—her blood curdled at the thought. It was almost a relief when Helena came, with her young face steeled to resolution, and said:
               "I can not endure this any longer. I must go—I must go and seek him."
               And these two women, followed by many others, went out, each with her own forebodings, to search for the missing ones.
               The Lady Orilia at this time was not aware of the arrival of her father, and of course knew nothing of the after circumstances. Kind Madame Ponson, with one or two domestics, remained at the Chateau to take charge of Helena's grandmother, who had been unusually restless all day. Perhaps the confusion, the want of that orderly quiet to which she had been accustomed, affected her nerves; whatever the cause, for the first time in many months she had insisted upon being removed to another apartment—thence into the garden—and so she had continued, all day, changeful and restless, until toward night, when she fell into a gentle slumber; and thus they left her.
               Night had closed over the recent scene of strife as the anxious women entered silently the town of Neuchatel. The conflict had been a short but sanguinary one. On the square, in the streets, everywhere, lay scattered the dying and the dead. And in the uncertain light were visible the dark figures of the mournful searchers for the dead, each with a lantern, looking for their own among the ghastly forms. Then came the heart-rending cry of recognition as one after another found that which they sought yet dreaded to discover. With faces to the ground, and heavy steps, they went forth, bearing their dead.
               The Lady Orilia and Helena kept together; they had but one object in view, the name of which they dared not utter. Yet among the dead and dying they shudderingly looked for the young pastor.
               They had scarcely entered the square on their painful mission, when their steps were arrested by the most fearful outcries, piercing, persistent—a childish voice wild with anguish. The accent and expression seemed familiar, and advancing a few steps they found little Bertha, kneeling beside the body of her father.
               "Oh mamma, mamma!" she cried, "he is dead—mamma, he is dead!"
               Yes, there lay the body of Francois, with the honest, open face upturned to 
                     the the
                     the
                   heavens, as though peering into that far-off future on which he had so madly rushed.
               "Oh mamma, come, do come!" cried the child, and presently a tottering figure appeared, hastening toward her.
               "Mamma," said Bertha, hushing for an instant her cries, "oh, may be he is not dead—see, his eyes are open—he smiles. Papa, papa! speak, oh, speak to me!" she sobbed, flinging her arms round his neck, and kissing his cold lips.
               Her mother knelt beside her; she had no words of comfort now—for oh God! who was to heal her own anguish?
               "Now, mamma, talk to him," cried Bertha, hysterically, "let us wake him as we used to do. Papa!" she called, but the lifeless lips returned no answer.
               Bertha redoubled her frantic efforts to waken her father. How could she believe that he who was connected with all she knew of love and happiness would return her embraces no more? But suddenly as she turned toward her mother, an ashen hue overspread her features; she pointed her trembling little hand toward where the dim lantern-rays fell on another prostrate form; the child seemed paralyzed with terror. "Oh mamma," she said, "see him—see him, that dreadful man!"
               Turning her tearful eyes whither that tiny hand was pointing, the mother beheld the dead body of Guiseppe, the artful tempter. She shuddered, and crept closer to her dead husband's side, laying her arm around the child who clung so closely to him. The wife's heart craved to mourn for that loved one as it once might have done in all the purity of an unsullied affection.
               She hated the dead Guiseppe, lying so ghastly there, but now in such close proximity,—for had he not threatened to bring her sorrow, and might he not have done this deed in revenge and deadly malice! Ah, the accusing conscience would never now be at rest,—it would ever whisper he had been sacrificed to her misguided folly!
               But all this individual suffering could not restrain the signs of rejoicing. Where a whole community have been delivered from a threatening calamity, the universal burst of joy and thanksgiving must have its outlet somewhere, and now the bells began to ring merrily, and shouts of triumph echoed on the night air, even in the midst of all these bitter sighs and painful lamentations.
               The Lady Orilia and Helena, after vainly striving to console the little Bertha, who was still frantic with grief, and the afflicted mother so bitterly punished, left to pursue their sad researches. How many prostrate forms they tenderly gazed upon, and gently put aside; no help could reach them any more. Many lay piled one on the other; some with hands clenched tightly over the face, others fast clutching at anything in their death agony; many were distorted, weltering in their blood, while others were calm as though in the sweet sleep of trusting rest; all these they examined, peering into every face with dread anxiety, holding their dim lanterns close to the cold, rigid features, and still not he. They had traversed some distance, with a tall figure still ahead of them apparently intent on the same purpose, for often it stooped, and looked and examined, and then passed on. As they left the square and came where the bright light from the illuminated houses glared on the street, they saw it was an elderly woman, apparently bowed down with the most intense sorrow, and as they came still nearer, Helena and the Lady Orilia recognized in the venerable lady the pastor's mother.
               There were no formalities or unpleasant remembrances now, they stood on one common ground of love, and with warm but silent embrace they were clasped in each others' arms. None could speak; only sobs came. Helena clung to that strong arm, and Madame Renshawe embraced her with passionate earnestness; each understood the other.
               They had been through the square, the many streets and lanes where the terrible conflict had raged, and still they had not found him, now they reached the road that branched off in different directions; only here and there at long intervals apart were to be seen the prostrate forms lying like a heap of dark rubbish oh the roadside. These no doubt were the brave men who had still pursued the flying insurgents, who thus hotly pressed, had turned and shot the pursuers down; but friend or foe, there were none so repulsive that these loving women turned from them; all, received the same reverent care, and had they been living would have received the same tender attention. Almost despairing they at last felt they must give it up; but Helena still kept on, now far ahead. Suddenly her voice was heard calling them to come, "come quickly!" when they hastened on and found the young girl kneeling upon the ground. She had found him whom they sought, he was lying upon his face with the matted blood covering almost every feature, but she knew him, and frantically called him to speak to her. He was perfectly insensible, and for a time they thought he was indeed dead. But their tenderness and judicious care, with the restoratives they applied, at last brought consciousness, he breathed, and when he opened his heavy eyelids and saw those that were around him, and heard the sweet voices murmuring such endearing words, he seemed to have wakened in elysium. He lay with his weak head on his mother's lap and his hands resting in Helena's, and felt that this moment of supreme rest and peace paid him for all that he had ever suffered.
               The Lady Orilia had left to send help to remove the wounded man. She returned home only in time to receive the dead body of her father.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               DROWNED.
               BUT how was it with the inmates of the old Abbey, during this day of strange viscissitudes? The Abbey whose brilliantly lighted saloons had so lately echoed with the gladdening sounds of mirth and music. Alas! how changed! Dark and disordered, and sadly deserted were the festal rooms. The floors were scattered with faded flowers, bits of tinsel, odds and ends of many things. From the elegant candelabras, the silver sconces on the walls, dripped streams of wax, where the wind had flared out the many candles that had blazed so brightly; and the supper rooms so splendidly arranged, where wreaths of natural flowers graced the pillars and walls, while immense bouquets adorned the entire length of the tables, gave ghastly suggestions of dead festivity; All now was in one heap of confusion—broken confectionary, fruits, rich viands, triumphal wreaths, fallen draperies, spangles and tinsel, all lay scattered about, trampled under foot in sad and painful disorder.
               But where was the haughty mistress of the mansion, the daring conspirator, the ambitious seeker of power? Alas, she was no longer daring—no longer hopeful. A foreboding of the failure of this scheme on which she had staked so much had settled on her mind with all the force of absolute certainty.
               It did not make her submissive, and enable her to grapple with the difficulties of her position, and prepare for any emergency that might come. It rather made her more irritable, fierce and demonstrative, until even those accustomed to her violence fled from her presence. Even poor Viola hid herself away, that she might not see that severe and gloomy countenance, which never relaxed with love or sympathy for her.
               Deserted of all, the defeated woman wandered through the great rooms where she had so lately been the center of a courtly throngs—She strayed through the open conservatory out into the garden, the woods, and back again. She heeded not the disorder and discomfort about her. Her mind was busy with other thoughts. She was angry with St. Olef, by whom the march into town had been so rashly hurried—she was angry with the Count for his inefficiency. In the agony of her passion she would fain have ground these men into the dust at her feet.
               This conviction of failure had first impressed itself on her mind as she watched from the Abbey windows the exit of the undisciplined mercenaries on whom they mainly depended. Oh, that she could have followed, have urged, inspired, compelled their feeble courage. But she, a woman, must remain inactive, and see her all imperiled in the hands of these vainglorious young man.
               Worn out at last by the vehemence of her feelings, and by her long watching, (for she had not slept for many, many hours) she sank helplessly upon a couch in one of the ante-rooms, and fell into a deep slumber, from which she did not rouse until long past noon. When she did awake, and saw by the glare of sunshine in the room that the morning was past, she called for Viola—but no Viola replied. She searched the house, examined every remote apartment; but all were deserted; only echo answered to her cry.
               At last in one of the kitchens she found an old woman and a little boy, who seemed to be sole denizens of the place.
               "Where is your young mistress? Have you seen her?" she asked.
               "No my lady," they answered.
               She hurried them away to search the grounds for her daughter. When they returned tremblingly, to tell her of their want of success, she sent them off again, ordering that they should not return to her presence until they had found Viola.
               When, after another hour of waiting, no tidings came, the fierce spirit of the woman broke forth uncontrolled. That selfish, half-tigerish love,—the only kind she knew,—which bound her to her off-spring, was now fairly let loose. She, hitherto so coldly indifferent to the welfare of that daughter, now made the lonely halls echo with her wild outcries. Where could the missing one have strayed?
               Searching again in the young girl's deserted chamber, she found that there were no traces of Viola's having been there since she left it in the blaze of her youth and beauty upon that festival night—The bed was undisturbed; the articles of dress were lying about as she had left them then. A terrible suspicion took possession of the mother; what if Viola had followed St. Olef, lured away by his wiles? She remembered many things which gave some plausibility to this idea. She remembered Viola's repugnance to marrying the count, and with what authority she had silenced the faint remonstrances of the timid girl. All this came to her mind, adding its weight of bitterness to her already overcharged feelings. In that hour of anguish another recollection came to her;—was it really a craving for some human sympathy, or was it that she wanted a fresh object on which to vent the rage of her soul?—She sought her husband, her long neglected, her almost forgotten husband.
               Would she find him among the living?
               Through the dusky passages, down the winding stairways that led to his obscure retreat, she hastened, till she came to a narrow door at the end of a long, low hall, and taking a bunch of keys from her pocket, opened it and entered. There, on a low, miserable bed, lay an emaciated form, apparently almost lifeless. On a table beside the couch was a crust of bread and a small pitcher of water. In the bustle and confusion of the last few days, he had been left without attendance, and he now little more than breathed from the exhaustion of neglect and hunger. Hurrying back to the deserted rooms, his wife procured some wine and simple refreshments. She threw open the window and let in the fresh air; she held wine to the sufferer's lips, and pressed the food upon him. Presently he revived. Sitting up in the bed he stared at the apparition before him; long years was it Since the miserable man had seen that countenance express either care or anxiety for him.
               Now that her first fears in regard to him had subsided, Madame's old, domineering spirit returned.
               "Rouse yourself!" she cried, with an impatient gesture. "Why do you he there idly—do you know what has happened?"
               "Happened—happened?" he repeated, idiotically.
               "Yes happened!" she answered, lowering her voice to a hoarse whisper, and speaking close to his ear. "Shame on you, miserable dotard, to he here while your child is the prey of a villain—ruined—fled!"
               "What, what?" he answered, seeming to attach no meaning to the words. "Fled? It is not she that has fled—it is myself." and passing his hand across his haggard brow, he looked indeed a pitiable object of helplessness, trying to grasp at something to steady himself.
               "Fool!" cried the wife, stamping her foot with impatience,—"wretched fool! will you never comprehend? It is Viola that has fled! Viola is gone!"
               "Gone!" he gasped, as if partially comprehending the idea. "Gone, and I here? Ah, that is my vision!"
               His wife raised herself from her stooping posture. No close proximity, no frantic words hissed in that dull ear, could rouse the impassive intellect, and viewing him with unutterable scorn and hatred, she said, rather to herself than him: "Was it for this I worked and triumphed? Bah, he was always a poor, weak fool, and I knew it. Yes, I knew it!" she repeated, bitterly. "But then he was a fool in gilded trappings—and look at him, now!"
               "Yes, look at him!" she cried, her withering glance falling on the wretch she herself had helped to debase. "It will make me utterly mad to stay here one moment longer. My brain reels now.
               She rushed from the room, as if speeding from the calamity which had befallen its wretched inmate.
               An hour later the old woman who lingered on the place, ventured to creep to the room where she knew the maniac was confined; her compassionate heart was moved to pity, lest in the universal desertion he should die of utter neglect.
               She found him sitting just as lie had been left by his wife, with the same vacant, listless stare on his ghastly face.
               But a train of thought had been stirred, feeble and flickering though it was. That sharp, harsh, dreaded voice, shrieking its words of fearful import in the ear of the lunatic, had rudely bridged the chasm between the far-off past and the dim present. Like a galvanic shock, it had roused the dead intellect,—slowly, imperfectly, it made itself felt through the avenues of the senses. As he listened to the kindly, sympathetic voice of the old woman,—a burst of sobs shook his emaciated frame; the unwonted emotion seemed to lift the heavy weight from his spirit; he was like one slowly awaking from a dream.
               He looked around as if trying to recall the objects about him, and to know where he was. The door was open and he gazed out beyond. The good woman raised the one window of the room high and threw back the shutter. The outer air revived him, he took long breaths, and inhaled it with a childish delight; his watchful friend answered his every look; soon he began to talk, to question who she was, and then he remembered the char-woman that lived in the little tumble-down chalet at the foot of the hill.—"Yes, yes, my good woman, I remember you." "And how you gave money to bury my poor girl," she said gratefully, "and sent her wine, and good food." He asked for water and bathed his head and hands, and she assisted him to rise and dress. He was not, really as feeble as he seemed. He was more prostrated by feelings and fancies than physical debility, and now that he was stirred to action, a new vigor possessed him. She led him out on the green grass, under the trees that still waved their changing foliage. The low descending sun tinted the autumn landscape with its golden hues. "Have I been blind, blind so long? Oh my God, this is thy world, thy beautiful world, and I thank thee that I again behold it!"
               "But how silent! How is this," he said with anxious haste, and soon he knew all. Gradually, with wise discretion, his companion unfolded the various circumstances of the last few hours; she spoke of Viola; he started and shuddered; the full meaning of those wild words that had travelled so dimly through his bewildered mind now came to him. "Where is she?" alas, none knew, "I must be off, Yes, yes!" he cried; no entreaties could stop, him, and the woman, alarmed, watched his tall, gaunt figure as it slowly tottered onward with uncertain steps, then more swiftly descended the steep slope and disappeared in the deepening twilight.
               And Viola, where indeed was she? poor girl. She had fled at the dread sound of her mother's voice on that early morning. Picking up a cloak, she had gathered her long gauzy robes around her, and concealing them under its dark folds, had followed at a distance that tumultuous mass of excited and riotous men, with but one thought, one object, to see and speak with St. Olef once more.
               At his last abrupt entrance among the guests of the previous evening, she had shrank with pain at his troubled, look and wild gestures. She dared not speak with him then. But now all this was forgotten;—it was only pity and love now. She must speak with him;—she must hear his voice again; she must have his last words. Oh, she would die if she did not see him. He was her hope, her happiness, her very heaven.
               Tireless she pursued her way. Little did those sturdy, defiant men dream that such dainty feet tracked their trough way. But she saw all—knew all. With wildly throbbing heart the infatuated girl through all that day watched,—looking down from her place of concealment upon the town, and ever keeping her eye on that figure, prominent above all, and riding with such grace the noble animal that bore him so proudly. Here, there, everywhere she followed their movements. Her keen perceptions could discern him at any time,—the slightest indication served to identify the one object of her gaze. A profound love for any object quickens the dullest intellect, and spiritualizes the weakest imagination.
               Unfortunate Viola!
               All affection and tenderness, a blind, in discriminating faith in those she loved, was her peculiarity. Alas, that a hard fate should have led her to waste the intense devotion, of her womanly nature upon so unworthy an object! She did not stop to ask was he right or wrong in what he was about. She only prayed that he might be preserved, that no harm might happen to that loved and cherished one.
               Every hope, trust and affection of her young inexperienced being was centered in him, and, strange though it may seem, With all the cheerlessness and loneliness of her early life she had never known real unhappiness until she met St. Olef.
               Her impulsive nature, whose sole spring of action was feeling, could scarcely understand the cold impassive organization whose depths of passion lay far beyond outward ken; consequently she was ever craving for something that might come, but alas, never did, and chiding herself afterward for her unreasonable desires.
               "Is he not so wise, so clever, so far, far above me?" was always her secret comment on his coldness. "Ah, he cannot have patience with my foolishness."
               Thus her musings always ended in exonerating her lover, and blaming herself.
               All day, amid the din and smoke, and sights and sounds of horror, she watched. And when the occasional hush came, and the thick atmosphere cleared away, then would her heart bound with joy, and the prayer of gratitude tremble on her lips—for he was still safe!
               She could not comprehend all that was going on in those shifting scenes of blood. She had an indistinct idea that St. Olef was on the losing side, but that mattered little so long as she was assured of his safety. How superhuman had been his efforts; he had rallied again and again the wavering masses.
               But he seemed struggling against fearful odds, and as again the smoke lifted she saw how fearfully the ranks under him had thinned off, and that whole companies, nay even whole regiments had fled, but still he was to the front, rallying the broken columns and madly urging them forward.
               But in vain—for now he stood almost alone. And presently she saw the stalwart form of the old General riding, forward, the sunlight falling on his silver hair.
               She did not know, she could not hear, his words of forgiveness and peace; she saw only the smoke and flash, and that St. Olef had turned and fled. Yes, there he was—he had passed the low slope of he hill—he was coming up the steep ascent on which she stood. She could intercept him; he was just entering the gorge, urging his jaded steed up the rugged way with spur and whip. She rushed to meet him; she knew that she could descend quicker than he could ascend, and with swift steps she flew down the steep, meeting him in the narrow pass, where he could not have proceeded without riding over her.
               She did not notice in her eagerness, the dark, cruel look which gleamed for a moment as he caught sight of her.
               Defeated, dishonored, a miserable fugitive, he seemed ready for any desperate deed.
               But Viola saw nothing of this; it was to her a moment of supreme happiness. Wild with ecstacy, she threw her arms out toward him, crying, "Oh, dear, dear St. Olef, do I meet you again?"
               Perhaps at that bitter moment, when all others were reviling him, when the deed he had just committed was revolting, even to himself, this natural, intense expression of sincere and affectionate joy had a brief softening influence, for St. Olef dismounted from his horse, and embraced her with what seemed real feeling.
               "And you do love me, St. Olef," she said, still clinging to his neck, "and you will not leave me again, will you?"
               "I must go now, Viola—this moment," he answered hastily.
               "Where?" she asked in sudden alarm, as if his manner impressed her strangely.
               "Oh, I do not know—off somewhere—anywhere."
               "Anywhere?" she repeated. "But not without me, Pierre. You know, beloved, you promised you would never leave me again. Even yesterday you paid so. And I have left my home forever," she pleaded piteously. "You told me to do so—I can not go back. Ah, stay, stay with me, and shield me from my mother and the Count!"
               
               "Release my arm," he said sharply. She had fastened on him as though no power on earth should separate them again. The whole strength of mind and body seemed concentrated in that one thought.
               St. Olef was listening intently, but not to her words; he started: "Do you hear it?" he said.
               "Hear what?" she asked, under her breath, though seeing no cause for alarm.
               "Never mind—the blood-hounds are after me. I must be off."
               The wild recklessness of his tone frightened Viola, but only the more closely die she cling to him, crying, "No, no, you must not leave me! It is cruel to leave me alone, Pierre!"
               "But I must, I must," and he made a violent effort to break from her.
               Still she held him back with the pleading cry, "Oh I shall die, I shall die if you leave me!"
               It was a cruel, heartless thing even for him to do, but his fears overcame everything else, danger was magnified; the pass was narrow, sounds seemed approaching, and with fierce, unrelenting impatience. he loosened his arm from her grasp, and as she still followed, caught her slight form in his strong arms, and with bitter curses crying, "Begone—away from me!" flung her from him, and mounting his horse, galloped furiously away.
               She reeled and staggered, and then fell prostrate and senseless among the stones and rubbish of the roadside, Yes, there she lay, the poor unfortunate, as some crushed, hunted thing, her beautiful head and glorious hair grovelling in the dust, and her rich garments stained and torn.
               How long she lay there could not be told; but it must have been some hours, for the darkness of the evening was past, and the full moon was high in the cloudless sky, when some peasants perceived a slight, girlish form clad in a long, dark robe, glide swiftly across the plain, and disappear in the dense gloom of the descending ravine. They shrank away, and watched her quick movements in fear, thinking they saw an apparition. Alas! when they heard all, how they regretted the foolish dread that had prevented their arresting the despairing creature on her errand of death.
               Like an evil thought in the heart of nature, desolate and solitary, lies the slimy pool in the shadow of the dark trees that fringe the valley of Rheinwald. A repulsive verdure spreads over its tideless surface. An unwholesome atmosphere hangs brooding over its shores. Ah, would not the timid spirit have shuddered and faltered, and the weak limbs refused their office, could she have seen as she approached its margin the dark, green, sluggish waters as others see them in the sunlight. The secret of those terrible moments is known only to the soul that endured their unseen anguish.
               Even in the clear sunshine, the wild valley of the Rheinwald chills by its blank desolation, and the dead waters of the little lake Moesola strike the heart with unutterable disgust.
               It is not for those to judge who have never known despair. When all hope has fled, when those we love, and have lived for have reviled and hated us, and for the first time we have become aware that this idol, this one cherished thought absorbing all other thoughts, loves, joys and friendships, has been but a delusion, a wild dream out of which we waken to misery and despair; when all sympathy is closed against us; when the life we ought to cherish as a sacred gift becomes our curse, when we hate ourself, and wish that we could fly from that self, we may measure Viola's guilt. In such a state of mind there is no light of reason; the darkness of the soul drops its heavy curtain, and night is everywhere. There is no pity, no whispering of peace or love to win us back, all, all is chaos of wild frenzy, till the only impulse is to be saved from ourselves.
               Some bushes in the thicket as she clambered down the steep sides of the rock caught here and there a shred from her light garments, and led to the discovery hat Viola lay at rest forever in the dark waters below.
               And still another scene of death was being enacted at about the same hour. It was in that home of peace where we love to linger, "Le Petit Chateau." In one of its apartments lay the corpse of the old General shrouded in its drapery of death; and not far off, in another chamber, the messenger still waited for yet another victim. But this time it fastened gently on its legitimate prey, there was nothing forced or repulsive; the life so long possessed was by its own natural laws gradually dying out, and that proud spirit, so many years chained in its prison-house, was now near its release.
               Helena was sitting upon the bed, supporting her grandmother, who, resting her head against that warm young heart, seemed to have fallen asleep. There was no sudden spasm of pain, no sharp suffering to disturb the feelings, all was calm and peaceful. Near the bedside stood the stranger who had accompanied General Acleigh.
               Beside him, watching also with the most intense interest this dying scene, appeared the calm, pale face of Lady Orilia. Though pale, her countenance was not sad; a strange luster, as if reflected from an inner light, illuminated it with something diviner than beauty. For some minutes these two, standing a little apart, watched silently.
               "Ilia," at length whispered the stranger, and even in that solemn hour, a little of Geoffrey Luperthorp's old boyish eagerness beamed in his eye, "we meet but sadly. Yet I have longed and hoped for this meeting ever since my dear wife's death. She bade me remember that I had loved you, Ilia. She bade me search you out. She never forgot you—my good, my dear Cecilia!"
               "Yes, Geoffrey," said the lady, "but it is not the old Ilia you meet to-day. I have striven and conquered. Out of the ashes of that fiery old love, of which I am not now ashamed to speak, has arisen a purer friendship than is of this earth. It will bide its time—until eternity."
               "And shall we wait," whispered Geoffrey, his face flushing painfully, "shall we wait so long?"
               "And we shall wait so long!" she answered.
               A smile irradiated the face of the dying woman at this instant, as if these whispered words had opened a glimpse of eternity to her vision. She opened her eyes and recognized the Lady Orilia and her granddaughter more intelligently than she had done for many years.
               "I am quite well, good friends," she said to the Lady Orilia. And sweet Helena, my little one, you must smile now,—I am happy." But then she added, in the old, wandering way, "You must tell Ralph this; he will be so glad to hear it."
               A piteous wail of agony broke the calm of the dying scene, as these words were uttered. A tall figure stood in the thresh-hold.
               Helena, from her position facing the entrance to the apartment, had seen this trembling figure approach; she saw his look of horror, as he glided in. The lights in the room burned dimly, but their faint rays fell on the couch of the dying woman, and on the haggard outline of her features as the figure entered.
               The young nurse dared not speak; she knew this was that strange, eccentric man, Viola's father, but she did not know that he had come there seeking his lost daughter; neither did she know the deep meaning of this scene to him.
               The others had not heeded his entrance; they were standing with their backs toward the door, absorbed for a moment in their own thoughts; the sudden cry roused them. With surprise and alarm they saw the maniac sink upon his knees at the bed-side, stretching his hands out toward the dying woman as if in entreaty, while a deep groan burst from his lips.
               The sound roused the invalid from the torpor stealing over her.
               "Ralph! my Ralph!" she murmured.
               A dream of her early days seemed to have fallen upon her, a pleasing, soothing dream. An expression of hope and pride flitted shadow-like over her worn countenance nance. She smiled as one smiles in sleep, murmuring softly again:
               "Ralph, I am proud of you, my boy! God bless you!"
               "No, no, mother," cried the voice of the wretched man kneeling beside her, "rather bring down curses on my head. They all arise to curse and disown me—evil tracks me every where. And the child of my forsaken wife arises now to avenge her mother!" he pointed his long skeleton finger to where the startled Helena sat.
               "Child," said he, "or spirit—whatever you be—it is well that you need never know your father."
               These words seemed to arouse the dying woman to a full consciousness of what was passing. The lamplight rested on the stranger's face; she looked at him steadily as if her memory were recalling those features. Presently she said, "Geoffrey, are you here?"
               "Yes, aunt Dupont," he said, turning quickly at those clear, unfaltering tones. "Do you know me—are you glad to see me?" He spoke eagerly.
               "Know you? Yes, certainly," was the reply: "I was always glad to see my brother's son."
               The words were distinctly spoken, with the old dignity of manner.
               Then she added, after a long interval:
               "But my Ralph was always a noble boy!'
               Oh, to that wretched man no words of bitterest denunciation could have come with half the sting of those words of affection still murmuring on the very lips of death,—"Ralph, my Ralph,—bless you, Ralph!"
               And thus his mother—that proud woman whose haughty spirit her son had humiliated and crushed—died blessing her erring boy.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               PEACE.
               TIME, the great restorer, had spread its healing wings over the little principality, so lately the scene of warfare.
               Winter, with its deep snows and driving winds was past, and a warm spring, soft and genial, had brought again the smile of hope to many a crushed heart, bereaved of its best treasure in this brief but sanguinary conflict.
               How quickly we find the pulse recover from any great national calamity! It is only the individual heart that retains the deep wounds that cannot be healed. The little town of Neuchatel, if we might judge from present appearances, had indeed forgotten its sharp sorrow. Mirth and gaiety prevailed once more. Again were gay groups mounting the sunny terrace, now covered with its fresh carpet of richest green,—while other were pouring into the low arched doorways of the old Cathedral. But not now, as in a time we remember, to sit in judgment upon the young pastor, but rather to rejoice with him,—to participate in his happiness, and to show their great respect for him personally.
               The tide of public opinion had indeed changed in the last few months. Pastor Renshawe was now the hero of the day. His praise was in every mouth. His foresight, judgment, and bravery, had saved them in their great peril, and their gratitude was unbounded.
               There had been every effort made to reinstate the pastor in his former charge, or to give him a place of greater distinction if he wished it. He might preach any doctrines he pleased now, or advance whatever ideas he chose, no rules should bind him—in short they were ready to do anything, give anything, so they might do him honor, and keep him with them.
               But he would not receive the slightest return. He had only done his duty. This was really his sentiment; and all he asked was to retire from public life, and follow low the profession he had always loved. This morning his brightest dream of happiness was about to be realized, Helena and himself were to be married in the gray old Cathedral.
               It was still early morning, but the building was completely filled, and expectation was at its height. The hour for the ceremony had arrived.
               Soon a hum and stir outside announced the approach of the bridal party, and the white-robed bride entered leaning on the arm of her uncle, our old friend, Geoffrey Luperthorp, whose fine presence and frank, noble countenance divided attention even with the bride.
               Then followed the pastor with his mother. A murmur arose from all hearts as they appeared. The young man's countenance still looked pale; he had not entirely recovered from his severe wounds; while the step of the dignified old lady by his side evidently faltered. For an instant she paused on the threshold, as it might be to gather strength for a great sacrifice. This son was all the world to her, the first and last in every thought. With a jealous tenacity she had guarded this relationship, not dreaming till lately that she could ever be otherwise than the first in his love, as he was the one sole object of hers. And must she now give him up and take the secondary place? It was indeed a struggle—who could doubt it? But the contest was short; his happiness was her chief desire; it overcame all other considerations, and with head erect, and firm step, she now advanced to the altar steps.
               On the faces of the young couple, there was an air of unusual thoughtfulness, and even sadness. They had known some heart-sore experiences that could not be lightly put aside. Their near proximity to the frowning walls of the strong castle, where the unfortunate Count was still incarcerated, their pity for his griefs, cast a shadow over their joy. Even though he had provoked his condemnation, yet their kind young hearts could not but compassionate his sore trial. And they remembered that he had truly loved Viola.
               Poor Viola! how Helena missed to-day the sweet young face, the ready sympathy, the winning girlish ways of her lost friend! Even in the midst of her happiness she shuddered at the fate that had befallen Viola.
               Yet, good and true and brave, no shadow could permanently abide with these two, who had earned of destiny its richest blessings.
               None came forward to congratulate the youthful pair, at the conclusion of the ceremony, with more hearty zeal than the gracious Mayor of Berne. He had forgotten his theological misgivings in regard to the pastor's soundness of faith, in admiration for the young man's practical deeds. He wished the bride and bridegroom, in the most fatherly manner, every happiness. And, having first looked round to see if the Lady Orilia might not also be a recipient of his gallantry, and finding her not in sight, he offered his arm to the venerable Madame Renshawe, and with much dignity preceded the bridal cavalcade out of the edifice.
               Helena must now return to the Chateau to bid farewell to her father, before she left for her new home. Of course the reader is now aware that the erring, wandering misanthrope was the Ralph Luperthorp of former times. By a strange fatality he had sought an asylum from himself and the world in the very spot his mother and child were living in seclusion under the protection of Lady Orilia. His wife, long an invalid, and stricken to the heart by his desertion, had died many years since.
               Ralph Luperthorp's narrow, self-concentrated nature was not one to commit a sin and then be indifferent to its shame. He had a delicate consciousness of duty, however much he had outraged every sense of right. He had fallen a victim, us such people are apt to do, to his own inordinate love of self, that had swollen to importance every thing connected with that self. This weak devotion to his own peculiar desires had been the instrument by which an artful and designing woman had worked his destruction. He did not love, he could not love in its holiest sense; but he was infatuated; the one apparently so devoted to his welfare acquired an ascendancy that raised her almost to the point of worship. He deemed it his duty to leave all, to sacrifice all for her.
               But when the film of delusion was torn from his eyes, and he saw the enchantress in her true character, and that he had been her dupe, then the half-madness, the ever increasing misery of his disturbed conscience; drove him to hide himself from all human sympathy—the victim of one frenzied idea—an outcast and a maniac.
               And now that the spell was broken, and he was more quiet and reflective, he had another source of never-ceasing condemnation in the fearful doom of Viola. Had he but done his duty by the poor girl, how different might have been her fate! Even the happiness of his eldest daughter, the bright Helena, seemed to reproach him, although she was married to one whom in the wildest abberations of his shattered intellect he had regarded with esteem and trust.
               As Helena bade him farewell, he mutely stretched forth his hands to her, as if in blessing. It might be his last; shattered in mind and body, it was evident that any change, however slight, might remove him at a moment's warning to that last resting place appointed for all the living.
               Helena was much affected, and turning back as she was withdrawing from the room, flung her arms impulsively round him.
               "It is more than I deserve, Helena," he said convulsively, as he saw the tears of affection gathering in her eyes, "and especially from you, my cruelly deserted child."
               "Do not say that again," said the warmhearted girl, "you are to me only my dear, dear father, and ever will be."
               Unhappy man, the days of his misspent life were indeed already numbered. Human affection and forgiveness could do little for him now.
               His cousin Geoffrey remained with him, to soothe as far as possible his declining days. A great contrast was presented by the two. Time had dealt pleasantly with Geoffrey Luperthorp, the hero of our old affections. Unlike his cousin Ralph, his interests and loves embraced a far wider sphere than his own mere personality. Generous and sympathetic, with broad views of life and its high purposes, existence had been to him a field of active exertion, and the light and sunshine he shed about him were reflected back upon himself.
               Yet he had had his trials—who is without them?—and severe ones too, even in the time of his greatest prosperity. His beloved aunt Edith, and his uncle Cranburn, the staunch friends of his youth, had passed away; and though they had gone in a ripe old age, he could not help mourning them deeply. And Cecilia, his fondly loved wife, with whom he had spent so many years of true enjoyment, after being long an invalid, had died a few months previous to his coming, to this valley. Indeed his principal motive in travelling had been to find in change some relief from his loneliness after her departure.
               Little did he dream that when he idly turned his steps toward Switzerland, lured thither by the glowing descriptions of the Abbe, rather than by any fixed purpose, he should meet again one who had been connected with the deepest feelings of his early life, and whom he had never forgotten. No one had ever revealed to him, if indeed they knew, the place of Ilia's sojourn; he had never inquired, not wishing to renew old sources of disquiet. He had gone on fulfilling his duties, loving his wife and children, remembering Ilia with tenderness, but as one forever lost to him. And when in the Lady Orilia, 
                     of of
                     of
                   whom he had heard so much from the Abbe and others, as a woman of extraordinary intellect and benevolence, he found' his lost Ilia, the beggar-girl, his surprise and emotion may be imagined.
               A wild whirl of feeling rushed through his heart; old memories awoke in his soul, and all the passion of his early days came back with its youthful intensity.
               But she had changed, and so had he. They were both now in middle life, but he was still a handsome man.
               He had mixed with the world, his wealth and position had given him entrance to its best society, and he was now the polished gentleman, easy and secure, with a fine disposition and flow of spirits that made his society sought wherever he went, while she was as ever the plain, unattractive woman, rather repulsive at first sight, but with the old power (as he found when he came to be with her) of peculiar fascination that made him forget all else, and held him charmed again with the richness of an interior beauty that still reigned undiminished. Her father, the brave old General, known only as such to the many that attended his last obsequies—was to these two known as something more—Peter Ackley, the old sailor—the man of strong, revengeful passions, but of high chivalric principles, who had expended all the power of his latter years in devotion to that one idea, to save and elevate the false one who had so cruelly terminated his life. The vain hope of expiating his one great crime, the murder of that young man's father, had stimulated him to every effort—but how vain had been the endeavor.
               But the old man was now at rest, great honors were paid to his remains. His body was conveyed to Italy. The country of his adoption. A military escort, with many friends of his daughter, followed the solemn cortege from the chateau far on the road. To Geoffrey, who knew that untutored nature so well, it seemed a fitting finale of his rugged life, when the bier, borne along with measured tread, passed down the steeps of the mountain into the deep defile, whence arose the weird strains of the funeral dirge, echoing and dying amid the hills.
               A few months again, and Ralph Luperthorp also was carried away; but there were few to mourn his loss. There was little in his remembrance to make the heart beat quicker. Yet in pity for the dead, let us forgive and forget, as those did who remembered his life and suffering. There was no wife to soothe his last hours; that unfortunate woman was an inmate of a lunatic asylum. The fearful end of her daughter, following upon the utter destruction of all her ambitious plans, had destroyed the balance of her artful, imperious mind, so full of stormy passions. Her insanity partook of all the worst features of her character; she was considered dangerous; she was subject to violent outbreaks, in which she called on St. Olef to come and save her, and varied her wild entreaties with pitiful screams for Viola.
               What became of St. Olef none knew. There were great efforts made to find him, but in vain. It was supposed he had fled to Spain, where, from his military skil, he might yet rise to eminence. The wicked in this world do not always meet their deserts.
               The Count, still a close prisoner, was more an 
                     oject
                     object
                   of pity than anything else; it was universally thought, that without that arch-traitor's influence, he would not have attempted what he did. But still his ultimate fate it is impossible as yet to tell.
               After his cousin Ralph's death, Geoffrey still lingered. He found it difficult to leave. Though he had many duties, Connected with his children (for he had a large family of sons and daughters) and his extended business, that were urgently calling him away, yet a magnet still held him to the home of Lady Orilia. Every day found him at the Chateau, and every day the society of its mistress was becoming more of a necessity to him.
               On a certain morning however, he had received letters, so urgently entreating his return, that he at once made preparations to leave. But the evening again found him undecided. He took his letters to the Lady Orilia—or Ilia,—as he best loved to call her, and she read them silently. He looked on, waiting patiently her opinions.
               "Certainly you ought to go, and at once," she said as she returned them to him, "without a moment's delay, the diligence leaves early in the morning."
               
               "But you will be so lonely then, won't you?" he asked.
               "Yes, I will be lonely when you are gone," and the voice wavered a little, and moisture seemed gathering in the eye, as she added, "very lonely, very lonely indeed."
               "And I will be lonely too, Ilia, and why need it be so? To be sure I have many things that you have not, but I want your companionship. I may have numbers around me, but still there will be a void in my soul which only you can fill."
               This was said with something of the old passionate earnestness that had almost moved Ilia from her purpose in days that were past.
               "Then why need we part?" he repeated vehemently.
               There was a long pause before this question was answered. A crowd of reflections thronged upon the thoughtful mind of the listener; not yet would she trust herself to speak.
               His words had come to her as a sharp pain, sudden, unexpected, poignant. She had supposed that these strong emotions were all outlived—that the even tenor of her life had subdued the intensity of an attachment that had once nearly destroyed her; she began to fear that all her hopes were fallacious, and that she was doomed to suffer again from the old wound, finding it hard as ever to say promptly that which her judgment declared to be right.
               She had pride too, and a keen sense of the fitness of things. She felt that she was not adapted to the world in which he moved. He had sons and daughters approaching to maturity, who had been brought up in fashionable life; she shrank at the thought of how she would appear among them. She was jealous of every thing connected with, his position and welfare,—and there would be always some one to whisper of the old by-gones. Perhaps she was too sensitive on this point; her old friend assured her that such was the case; but it was impossible to alter her decision; she said firmly:
               "You must go, my old friend; we have both our work to do. Our great responsibilities,—you know yours,—we can only fulfill them rightly apart. I have now the wealth and the full freedom that I have so long desired, and I must keep my vow to work for my human kind!"
               Her voice now sounded with an echo of the old enthusiasm;—"Yes, I must work;—not among the favored, adding to their blessings, who have so much already,—but among such as I was when you found me, Geoffrey. This is my vow on the altar of my devotion—to work for them. To you has ever been dedicated whatever I have done,—whatever I am to do is in your name; for without that first uplifting where would my dark ignorant life have been? I shudder to think."
               Her companion, however, could not see as she saw. He argued that she had surely done enough. "Why, from what I hear, and know you have accomplished sufficient to satisfy any ten women." And when she still shook her head, he became impatient, and told her she had always been obstinate and impracticable. He had thought she still possessed some of the old regard for him; but he was mistaken:—others were still of greater consequence than his happiness. And with these words he rose highly offended, and paced the room with great dignity.
               But as of old he could not retain anger very long; and when he saw how much he had really wounded one he loved so truly, he was all contrition. In his inmost heart he knew all her love for him; and he told her so, and asked her forgiveness.
               She thanked him for, that assurance.
               "Yes, Ilia, dearly, truly loved, I will try to understand you,—to still live up to your ideal of what we ought to be, and must be, broad, generous, and unflinching in right. I will go now;—I always had to obey you, Ilia. You are a very tyrant to me. This is a sweet place."
               The moon was now high, having risen since they sat there. It was a most lovely spot; and Geoffrey looked out on the lake to the far-off beyond, in all its mysterious immensity, "Yes, I could live here forever in contentment by you, Ilia," said he,—he had seated himself again by her side,—"but I will go;—yet, may I come back when I have done my work;—when all those dependent on me have each gone their own way, occupied with their own interests and cares, and I am alone,—may I then come back?"
               As he rose to leave, she took the hand he had reached out to her and raised it to her lips, and still held it with convulsive tenacity. Even he could hardly dream of the struggle in that breast.
               It was some time before she could command her voice; but that powerful will at last prevailed. Her feelings kept under, were crushed. At length, with something of tranquility, she answered, "Yes, Geoffrey, my best friend, when all this that is your duty is fully accomplished;—when those you are now bound to care for have gone each their own way, to work out their own problem of life, and you are alone, then come back."
               "God bless you!" was the fervent reply.
                She was still agitated; and it was some little time before she could again speak, when she continued,—
               "Yes, come back. You will find me ever the same. I am too old to change; and, Geoffrey, to you I may say it,—there is that, deep down in my heart, which time cannot destroy,—it is woven into my very being,—if I live I must love you!—Go then, Geoffrey, return to the friends that await you—but, when the days are less bright than now, and those you love are scattered—then Geoffrey—in the days of shadow, I shall await your coming!"
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
