
    ----CITATION----
        Barnard, Charles (1838-1920). The Strawberry Garden .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5739 wright2-0220
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE STRAWBERRY GARDEN.
               How it was Planted,—What it Cost,—What came of it financially and sentimentally.
               A very Practical Story.
            
            BY CHARLES BARNARD, AUTHOR OF "MY TEN-ROD FARM," "A SIMPLE FLOWER GARDEN," ETC.
            
               LORING, Publisher, 
                     205 WASHINGTON STREET,
                  
               
               BOSTON.
            
         
         
         
            
               BY THE SAME AUTHOR.MY TEN-ROD FARM; OR, HOW I BECAME A FLORIST. Paper $0 38FARMING BY INCHES; OR, WITH BRAINS, SIR. Paper, 0 38A SIMPLE FLOWER GARDEN. A PRACTICAL GUIDE FOR EVERY LADY. Paper, 0 25THE SOPRANO. A MUSICAL STORY. Cloth, $1.00. Paper, 0 75THE TONE MASTERS. MOZART AND MENDELSSOHN, HANDEL AND HAYDN, BACH AND BEETHOVEN. Cloth. Illustrated. Each 1 25 Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by A. K. LORING, In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
            
         
      
      
         
            The strawberry garden
            THE STRAWBERRY GARDEN:
            A VERY PRACTICAL STORY.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               INTRODUCES THE PEOPLE AND THEIR WOES.
               MR. JOHN WELLSON, wife, and three children,—Mary, aged seventeen, Kate, fourteen, and John Junior, or Johnny, twelve, or thereabouts. These for people. Numerous wants, and the lack of funds to supply them, for an argument. Details directly.
               Time, evening, June 19, 186—Scene, the Wellson parlor. The whole family met in solemn council. Mr. Wellson, head-master in a public school in the neighboring city, occupies the great arm-chair, and for the moment is lost in gloomy meditations.
               Mrs. Wellson, familiarly known as "mother,"—a bright and cheery body, with a kind word and ready smile for all, sits in her low rocking-chair quietly mending a stocking, and thinking, thinking,—and thinking to no purpose. It is a trying subject they have under consideration, and even her sharp wits cannot penetrate it.
               Mary, the eldest daughter, loveliness, common sense, and affection combined, is vainly trying to read a book upside down, and with her thoughts decidedly elsewhere. The family troubles are dull and hard, but they touch her upon a tender spot. Prosaic as they are to the others, to her they are keen enough, and in a far different way. Every joy of her young life hangs upon the miserable question before the household. Not in reality; yet she thinks so, and that to her is quite as bad.
               Kate, her sister, a wholesome, luncheon-loving girl, with abounding animal spirits, and possessed of ready wit, a sharp appetite for fun, and good nature enough for two men and a boy, is seated in boyish fashion upon the floor. With earnest eyes she gazes at the carpet in silence.
               Her brother, a boy of the hearty, wide-awake order, is seated on a low stool beside her, and for a wonder is quiet. He is very sober. Upon him the family sorrows weigh heavily. The world is a dull place and life is very sad. It is his ambition to wear "a coat with tails, like the other fellows," and the parental funds don't admit of it.
               Attention! Kate speaks: "Well, I think the worst thing that ever happened to this family was the unhappy circumstance connected with my birth."
               "Hush, Kate!" said her mother.
               "No, mother, let me free my mind. I shall feel better. I say it's a pity I wasn't a boy. Then"—and she sighed fervently—"then I could go to work and earn something, and help father out of this scrape."
               "Fie! Kate," exclaimed Mary. "One would think you were one now."
               There would have been a sharp retort had not Mr. Wellson interrupted them by dragging up once more their little private skeleton and rattling its bones before their sad eyes. Said he:—
               "The case is just this: Here we are, living in this expensive house and keeping up a certain position in society, and our funds at such a comparatively low stage that disagreeable rocks and shoals are visible at every tide."
               "In other words," added John Junior, gravely, "the stamps don't hold out."
               "That's it, my boy. We are living beyond our means, and something must be done about it very soon."
               "Can't we sell this house, my dear? A smaller one would be less trouble to keep in order."
               At these words Mary's heart fell down two degrees and a tenth, and her mental atmosphere was depressed. To move away just now would be disastrous.
               "We might sell," replied Mr. Wellson, "at a heavy loss."
               "Yes," said Kate, "and go into some box of a house, and live like six mice in one hole, and lose our garden, and the grapes, and all the nice things, and have those wretched Scrabbins girls say things, and cut us all dead. Oh! isn't it dreadful? I declare it's awful; really and truly. I hope we shall move a hundred thousand miles from here, and where there isn't anybody who knows us, and where we don't know anybody. Oh, if I were only a boy! I'd fix things."
               "Would you though? Come, tell us, Kate, what'd you do?"
               "Work!—work like a house a-fire."
               A hearty laugh greeted this burst, and things actually looked brighter. To such a stirring young body everything seemed possible.
               "Now, father, let's not beat about the bush. Tell us just how things stand. Perhaps it isn't so awful bad, after all."
               "No, Kate, it is not such a terrible affair. Only a little matter of one hundred dollars."
               "Oh! is that all?"
               "Yes; but every year we are that amount short. For the past few years a small sum in the savings-bank has served to eke out the deficiency. This belonged to your mother, and she insisted upon its use that you children might continue in this pleasant home a little longer. Now it is all gone."
               "O you good, dear, dear mother!" cried Kate, jumping up suddenly and planting her liberal self in her mother's lap, to the demoralizing of work-basket and mending; "you're better than cranberry jam, or frozen pudding,—and that's heavenly, you know."
               Mr. Wellson went on: "We shall do well enough till the winter's coal is to be bought. Every other bill paid save that, and no money on hand. Now the part of wisdom is plain. Edge our expenses, and live in a smaller house, or in less style."
               At this statement a dreadful silence fell upon the company, only to be broken by the entrance of Helen, their one servant, to announce supper. Gathered round their simple board they ate their tea and toast in silence and bitterness. At the end of the meal a full dish of ripe strawberries was brought on. At sight of this their spirits revived, and the lively Kate began again with her perpetual talk.
               "And the strawberries, too! To think that we shall lose them all! I shall eat a double share till we move away. Don't know when we shall ever have any more. We—are—so—dreadfully—poor."
               Spoonfuls of berries and cream served to point this remark.
               "The berries are the very things that trouble us, Kate," said her father. "The expense of keeping up our garden is the one straw that breaks our particular camel's back. The plants and the labor expended upon them cost last year more than enough to make us whole. Another place, having either more ground, so that we could sell a part of the produce, or less ground, to save all expense, would help us. As it is, the cost of our grounds is too great for us to maintain our present position in society."
               The meditative Johnny, coming out strong on the side of financial common sense: "Bother position in society! Let's keep out of debt, any way. Who cares if we don't live in this house, or on this street?"
               Both the girls held up their teaspoons in horror.
               "Position is everything. How'd you like to give up your playfellows and come down in the world?"
               "Hush, children!" said their mother. "You are getting very worldly. Society is not everything."
               "Yes; but it is so hard to come down."
               Further discussion followed this, and after a while Helen came in to clear the table, and the subject was dropped. Soon after Mr. Wellson took to his account-books, and with his wife went over for the twentieth time the long columns of figures that represented their dull sorrows. Such petty and harassing work. The ins and the outs were persistently at variance, and their eyes ached over the wretched matter. What discouraging work, and how destructive to all that is best in life! And yet it must be done. Oh, debt! what a horrid, horrid thing it was! How could a man be a saint, or a woman the angel she ought to be, while in debt?
               As for the children, Mary tried to read, Kate was silent, and much given to wishing she were rich; and Johnny was lost in a brown study. At nine the evening came to an end, and they sought the best country for them,—the land of sheets and dreams, Mary dull and dispirited, Kate very sober, and her father and mother weary and. harassed. As for Johnny, a brave idea struggled in his mind, and he was restless and wakeful.
               Having safely tucked them in, let us briefly consider their case. A very worldly set of people, the reader remarks. Not a doubt of it; yet, in drawing this picture the writer fancies that he has been true to nature. Thousands of families keep in their best closet just such a miserable little skeleton as this, and gaze upon it in precisely this very human way. Did the really best society depend upon money alone, such views would be despicable. As, happily, it depends, in this country at least, more upon brains and education, the seeking for it is not so very bad.
               To aspire to a high position is wise and honorable. The higher one goes, the less are life's temptations and the easier it is to be virtuous. The lower we descend, the greater they become, till actual poverty is reached, where crime has become proverbial. The so-called "criminal classes" are always the desperately poor and uneducated.
               The society in which these people sought to maintain themselves was that of the average American of common and high school education,—society such as is found among the doctors and lawyers in a New England village, or the commercial classes in our large towns and cities.
               In view of these things, let us look farther into the doings and sayings, struggles and triumphs, of this family in their endeavors to keep up in the world.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               THE MIDNIGHT RAID.
               THAT night, soon after the owl train had shrieked through the village, and just as the rural chanticleer had finished his last farinaceous dream and was sleepily tuning his horn, two of the family awoke. Do what they would they could not sleep again.
               The restless Johnny, after piling Alps on Alps with the bedclothes, and muttering to himself that "he'd do it, sure as sixty," sat up in bed and looked out of the window at the waning moon.
               Just beside him in the next room his sister Kate also sat up, with wide-awake eyes, and wondering if "she heard robbers or anything."
               For a while all was silent. Then she heard a queer sound just outside her window. In a little fright she hid her head in the bedclothes. The noise went on. A sound of footsteps on the roof of the piazza by her window.
               Resolved to be very brave, she slipped out of bed, scrambled into a wrapper, and grasped her shoe to fling at the burglar. Looking out, she beheld a young lad standing before her window. She was upon the point of indulging in a scream, when she saw that it was her brother. Pushing up the sash gently, she put out her head.
               "Why! Joh—"
               Johnny motioned her to be quiet. In a whisper: "Don't speak loud, Kate; you'll wake 'em."
               "No, I won't. What's up?"
               "Nothing, nothing. Only do talk quiet. You'll wake 'em up, and spoil my fun."
               At this word a bond of union was, established between them at once.
               "Fun! Oh! what is it? Is it a serenade for Mary? Tell us. I'm dying to know."
               "It's hooking, Kate."
               "O Johnny, you are not going to run away to sea to get money to help father?"
               "No; but I'm bound to help dad, and I'm going—to—won't you tell?"
               "No, truly and really."
               "I'm going to steal some of our strawberries, and sell 'em. It's awful bad, I know; but it was dad made me think of it. He said if we had more land we might farm it, and sell the stuff, same as Farmer Gooding does. Didn't I see the women a-picking berries there yesterday, and I guess if those gals can, I can."
               "So you can, and it isn't bad at all. You can take your share, and go without at table. That'll be fair. You can have my share too, if you like."
               
               "You're a trump, Kate."
               "Now be quiet, and don't break your neck in climbing down."
               Johnny disappeared and Kate softly closed the sash.
               "What a boy! Who would have thought it of him? Not a bad idea though, there's heaps and heaps of berries, and they'd bring some money if we could sell 'em. What time is it? Half-past three, if the moon says true. It will be light soon. I know what I'll do. I'll help the boy, and and let him in at the back door."
               A few moments later a dark-robed figure might be seen creeping from the back door of the house, and stealing along the damp walk that extended down the centre of the dewy moon-lighted garden.
               An odd little spot, half-hid by tall trees and the neighboring houses. On the north side a row of pear-trees nearly shut off the view from the dwelling-house, and made the garden a quiet and secluded spot. A board fence, covered with grape-vines, extended for two hundred feet along the west side, and on the south a low stone wall divided the grounds from the open fields beyond. On the east a large wooden house pushed its windowless back close up to the boundary line. More board fence finished the outline.
               As for the general aspect of the place, and the things growing in it, nothing could be said, as all was dark and shadowy. It was only by knowing the locality well that the muffled figure was able to find its way. Down by the stone wall it encountered a black figure crouching among the wet vines. As the walking figure approached, the other started up and stood erect in the chilly moonlight.
               "Why, Kate, is it you? How you frightened me!"
               "Yes, I've come to help you. Give me a box."
               "Haven't got but one."
               "That won't do. What could you do with one box of berries? They would laugh at you at the market. I'll get something."
               Kate flitted silently away in the gloom, and soon returned with an empty basket.
               "You don't think we can fill that?"
               "Why not? We have two good hours before anybody will be up. We can do it in an hour, if we work like fun."
               And they did,—in silence and with speed. Busy with their work they did not notice the coming dawn, and almost before they knew it the tall chimneys of the next house stood black against the gray sky. The light crept upward and the moon hung low in the west.
               When the basket was nearly full they paused to take breath.
               "They don't look very nice. Do they?"
               "No, Johnny. They are very wet, and—oh! we haven't hulled them."
               "Then we ought to do it."
               
               "We can't. There's no time. The sun's most up and we shall be found out."
               "I don't think they will buy them in that state."
               "Then you must offer them for less. Whatever you do, sell them."
               "That I will. I'll start now. The shops will be open soon."
               "All right. I'll sit up for you. I'm all dressed and haven't anything more to do till breakfast-time. My! how hungry I am! I wish breakfast was ready now."
               "I don't. We'd be found out, sure. Good-by, I'm going."
               And, with the basket on his arm, he scrambled over the stone wall and disappeared.
               Never did maiden watch in lonely tower for her lover from over the sea with more anxiety than did Kate, with her pretty nose flattened against the cold window-pane, for her runaway brother. At last, just as the sun appeared over the trees, he came quickly up the walk under the pear trees. Opening the window, she telegraphed to him by signs that she would come down and let him in.
               A moment after she stood beside him in the yard. The basket was gone.
               "How splendid! you sold 'em?"
               "I did that."
               "Come in. Oh! I'm so—"
               The back door opened, and, to their infinite astonishment, their mother stood before them.
               "Why, Kate! Out so early?"
               "Here's mother," said Kate to her brother. "The cat'll have to jump, surely."
               "She will tell."
               "We will ask her not to."
               "You won't tell father, will you, mother?"
               "Tell him of this?"
               "No, but you see, I was out in the night," said Johnny, honestly.
               "Out in the night! That is a very serious thing. I must acquaint your father of it at once."
               "O mother, mother!" exclaimed both. "Don't. We did not mean to do wrong, and we are both to blame."
               Mrs. Wellson looked from one to the other. Plainly they had spoken the truth. After a pause, she said, "This is very serious. Go to the dining-room, Johnny, and wait till I come. And you, Kate, how happens it your dress is so wet round the bottom?"
               "O mother, perhaps we were dreadful wicked, but we will tell you all."
               Like good children they met their mother in the dining-room, and told her all. When the story was finished Mrs. Wellson sat down perplexed.
               Such proceedings were certainly not right, and yet no serious wrong-doing was intended. After some reflection she made up her mind what to do.
               "What you have done, children, was neither proper nor right. It must not happen again. If you are to sell the berries it must be in broad daylight, and with your father's consent."
               "May we sell 'em?" said Johnny. "Hi! won't it be fun? I sold 'em this morning easy as sixty. See, here's the money."
               So saying, he took from his pocket some dirty bits of scrip and spread them on the table.
               Kate and her mother stooped to examine the four greasy bits of paper,—twenty-five cents each.
               "You don't say, Johnny," exclaimed Kate. "All that for your berries? You will get a heap of money if you go on at that rate. It's pretty dirty money they gave you—"
               "Never mind," broke in Johnny. "It's just as good to pay your debts with."
               "They certainly did pay you well," said Mrs. Wellson. "You must be good at a trade."
               "Oh! I fixed 'em," said the proud Johnny. "It takes me to sell things."
               "Tell us about it," said Kate.
               "Well, you see, the first store I came to was just being opened, and in I marched. 'Want any strawberries?' says I.
               "'Let's see 'em,' says the man.
               "I showed him the basket, and then I remembered that the hulls were on. They looked pretty bad, and I thought they were not worth much. The man looked at 'em, and says, 'They aren't hulled.'—'No,' says I, 'they are not.' 'Don't want 'em,' says he. 'All right,' says I, and got ready to go, when I saw a gentleman looking at 'em pretty hard. Says he, 'They are much better for having the hulls on. They keep longer. The best way would be never to sell strawberries with the hulls removed.'—'It isn't the fashion,' said the store-man, 'and they won't sell till they are hulled.'—'Perhaps not,' said the gentleman; 'but they are much better so. Besides, the boy has wisely put them in a shallow basket instead of those tight wooden boxes sometimes used. They are probably free from all woody flavor.'—'Well,' said the store-fellow, getting angry, 'I don't want 'em any way.'
               "I went out, and soon came to another store. 'No, they did not want 'em. They never bought berries in bulk.' Then I was mad to think that I did not know enough to hull and pack them before I started. I thought I'd stop somewhere and hull them, but I could not find a good place. Then I came to another store. 'No, they did not want berries.'
               "By this time the basket got pretty heavy, and I guessed I'd throw it away and call it profit and loss,—mostly loss."
               "Oh! you didn't didn't you, Johnny?" exclaimed Kate.
               
               "No, my dear, I didn't. I kept it and tried another store. Here I changed my tune. You see I was provoked, and didn't care what I said.
               "Marching in very brave, I said, 'Want any fine fresh strawberries? Got the hulls on, to keep 'em fresh. Picked this day. In prime order, 'cause the hulls are on. Makes 'em keep better. In bulk, to keep them sweet.'
               "There were two men in the store, and they both came to look at my berries.
               "'How much?' says one, poking his fingers into the berries.
               "'Twenty-five cents,' says I. 'Thirty cents, if you spoil 'em by poking them over in that way.'
               "The man stared, and the other fellow laughed.
               "'Do you want 'em?' says I.
               "'No,' says he.
               "'Prime berries,' says I. 'Warranted to keep, 'cause the hulls are on.' Then the other fellow looked into a little book he held in his hand and said, 'Guess we'll have to take 'em. It's a tremendous price; but they are very early. Here's your money;' and he took the basket and gave me this.
               "'Yes,' says I, 'they are early. Half-past four in the morning. Very early.' Then I started for home, and you know the rest."
               "But, Johnny," cried Kate, lifting her hands, "where is the basket? You did not sell that too?"
               "Oh!" exclaimed Johnny. "I never thought of it."
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               PRIDE VERSUS MONEY.
               THAT afternoon, about four o'clock, Mary Wellson could be seen dreamily walking up and down the gravelled walk at the lower end of the garden. With downcast eyes she paced back and forth, apparently lost in thought, yet really with sharp eyes and ears, ready to catch the sight and sound of any passers on the little path which wound over the grass in the pasture just beyond the wall. Every few moments a quick glance was cast towards the field, or to the house at the upper end of the garden. From one direction she hoped for some one's coming; from the other she feared anybody's approach.
               "Why don't he come?"
               An old, old question asked once more by fresh lips.
               "Why don't he come? He knows I wait for him."
               More steps alone, and further efforts to quell the rebellion in her young heart. A rebellion and protest against the family fates. Why did these wretched money matters come in just now to ruin all her hopes?
               The pretty fingers twisted themselves together tightly over her breast, and the bright eyes were sparkling with unaccustomed tears.
               
               "Will he never come? Only one paltry hundred dollars,—and to lose all for so little. If he would only come, that I might see him before we move away."
               The sad eyes gazed far away towards the distant hills and the declining sun.
               "Will he never—"
               A sudden arrival: Kate, the luncheon-loving, with a piece of cake in one hand, and a tin pail in the other.
               Mary turned away to hide her face.
               "Hallo, Polly! What you doing here?"
               "Nothing. How came you to be so rude, Kate? You are as bad as any boy."
               Kate's opinion of boys had gone up three degrees and a tenth since morning, and she was proud of the race. Between her bites at the cake, the conversation went on:—
               "All right"—cake.—"Glad of it"—cake.—"Boys are"—cake—"jolly. Like 'em"—cake.—"Say, sister, won't you lend"—cake—"us a hand"—cake—"at picking strawberries? Johnny and I are going to pick a lot, and "—cake—"won't you tell?"—cake.—"We are going to sell 'em"—much cake.
               "Sell them, Kate! What are you thinking of?"
               "Of nothing, except the money they will bring."
               "Sell them for money! Are you crazy?
               "No, think not. Come, lend us a hand."
               Much cake; and then she stooped down, and, tucking away her skirts, gravely began to eat cake and pick berries at the same time.
               Mary stood beside her irresolute, and with keen eyes watching furtively the path over the green field beyond the stone wall.
               "If he should come now! I almost hope he will not." This to herself.
               "Kate, I must say, you are the strangest girl I ever met. In sober earnest, tell me what you mean."
               "Money."
               "Money!"
               "Yes, scrip,—stamps,—cash. Here you find it for the picking."
               "I really don't understand."
               "You are dull, my love. Come, be a dear, and help me fill this pail."
               Mary stood for a moment on the walk; undecided whether to run away, or do something else.
               What else could she do? To run away, and refuse to aid her good-natured sister, would be unkind, at least. To set to work picking berries would expose her to a disagreeable degradation, in somebody's eyes, should they chance to see. Would he, the aristocratic young man, ever forgive her, if he found her at work in the garden? Would he not be shocked, and beat a retreat with no returning? Would he not despise her red fingers and old tin pail?
               Vanities of vanities! The complaint of an anxious mind. Not altogether a weak one, for its owner did begin to pick a few berries, in a listless manner. Her vanity was not alone to blame. The desire to find favor in love's eyes helped out this rather silly view of things.
               A moment after, the reckless Johnny appeared, loaded down with little strawberry baskets, and singing in a loud voice that classical melody, "Captain Jinks."
               "Goodness, Johnny! stop that noise," exclaimed Mary, petulantly.
               "Noise! That's music. I'm rehearsing last night's serenade."
               Kate laughed immoderately.
               "Hush, Kate!" said Mary. "You will tell the whole neighborhood. How can you be so boisterous!"
               "Now, fellows," said Johnny, "let's see what can be done. Pick is the word. Ten quarts at least. Leave the hulls on, and top off each basket in a precise and elegant manner."
               "Why not take the hulls off?" said Mary. "It must be done before they go to the table, and we may as well do it now."
               "No," said Johnny. "They sell better so."
               "Sell! What do you mean?"
               "I mean we are going to sell them."
               "Does your father know it?"
               "No; but mother does. We sold some this morning and mother says we may try once more, and if we succeed we are to ask father's permission to sell them all."
               "Sell our strawberries! Who ever heard of such a thing? I should be ashamed to be seen on the street, were we to do so. It will be the town talk, and all our friends would cut us forever."
               "Let 'em," said Johnny. "Who cares? I'm for selling the berries and giving the money to father to pay the coal-man's bill."
               "And stay where we are," said the practical Kate, "and not be obliged to move into some little house in some back street. For my part I'd rather pick berries all day than move away. Who is to know of our doings? No one can see us, and Johnny is to sell the berries before anybody is up."
               "I am afraid we shall have to pick a long time before we get a hundred dollars," said the despondent Mary.
               "I don't know about that. There are heaps of 'em; and then there are the grapes,—we can sell them too. Anyway, we will try."
               And so they did. The shallow wicker baskets, opening wide at the top, were soon filled, and Kate and Johnny, with each two baskets, started to carry them to the house. Mary offered to bring the rest, and lingered behind. Shortly afterward, she could have been seen dreamily sauntering up the path, with a far-away look in her eyes, as if she had caught a glimpse of delectable, but impossible mountains. Empty-handed, but very happy. How absent-minded young people become under certain circumstances!
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THINGS GET EXPLAINED.
               THE Wellson breakfast-room the next morning.—Johnny gazing aimlessly from the window, and wondering how things were going to come out. All the plates on the table turned down, and under one something attractive, but not edible.
               Kate appeared upon the scene.
               "O Johnny, have you got back? What luck, my boy?"
               "Not much this time. Bad fall in the market."
               "What! did you tumble down and spill the berries?"
               Johnny laughed in spite of himself, and would have explained had not the rest of the family appeared just then.
               They all sat down apparently unconcerned, but with all, save Mr. Wellson, in a flutter of excitement. The climax came when Mr. Wellson turned his plate over and discovered a small pile of rather dirty scrip beneath it.
               "What is this?" said he. "Did I leave it here last night?"
               "No," said his wife. "It was not yours till now."
               
               "How so? Has anybody been so honest as to make a return on some over-paid bill?"
               "No."
               "Then where did it come from; and if it is for me, how shall I enter it in my books?"
               "Call it new income?" said Johnny.
               "No," cried Kate. "Call it Johnny's present. He earned it, and it is to help pay for coal and things."
               "Earned it! Really, he is beginning young. Come, let us have breakfast and talk this thing over. Have we no fresh strawberries to-day?"
               "Yes," said Mary, uncovering one small saucerful. "These are for you. We do not care for any."
               Mr. Wellson took the proffered fruit, saying, "Ripe fruit is always best at breakfast." After adding sugar and cream to the berries, he paused a moment to count the money as it lay on the table.
               "Three dollars and a half. You must have worked long and hard to have earned so much. Tell us how you did it."
               Johnny was absorbed in bread and butter, and was "too full for utterance."
               "Have you lost your appetite for strawberries?" said Mr. Wellson, turning to Kate.
               "Oh, dear, no; only I don't care for any to-day."
               "Neither do I," said Johnny.
               "Really this is strange. Strawberries refused, and Johnny gone into business about which he does not care to talk."
               "The fact is, father," said Mrs. Wellson, "the children have agreed to go without what they call 'their share of the strawberries,' and intend, with your permission, to sell them, and so help pay our debts."
               Mr. Wellson's appetite was gone. He did not care to eat any more berries. He paused and gazed into his coffee-cup. What he saw there was uncertain, for his eyes seemed very misty just then. He pushed back his chair as if to rise. The impetuous Kate slid from her seat, and planting her liberal self upon his knee, twined her arms about his neck.
               "O father, father! We did not mean to do wrong, and—and it's all my fault."
               Poor Johnny sank down in his chair nearly out of sight. If he could have disappeared through the bottom of his boots, he would have done so cheerfully.
               "No, it isn't," said he, in a solemn voice. "I did it, and I'll tell you about it, if you'll let a fellow."
               Mary turned away and stared out of the window very hard. Mrs. Wellson rattled the tea-things and tried to be cheerful.
               Taking Kate's face in his two hands, Mr. Wellson looked as steadily as he could into her clear brown eyes. His own were rather dim, and perhaps dewy.
               
               "Why don't we have a small earthquake?" moaned Johnny.
               Kate stirred not, and her father then and there deliberately kissed her pretty lips.
               "You are a darling, Kate. I believe what you say. Any man ought to be happy in such children."
               "Then you don't blame us at all?"
               "No, Kate. I am too much pleased to be anything but thankful and happy."
               "Hooray!" cried Johnny, brightening up. "Hooray, dad! We may sell the berries,—may we not? And we can pay the plaguy coal-man, and live in this house still."
               "We can try," said his father. "I have no objection to the sale of the berries."
               Mrs. Wellson breathed more freely, and Mary actually smiled upon her uproarious brother.
               Her every hope was realized—if—if the berries brought enough to supply the deficit. Would they? It was an open question, but one worth trying, provided some one never found it out.
               All this to herself; for the others, only smiles and a rosy face.
               "What pleases you, Mary?" said her father.
               "Nothing very special," she replied. "I was merely thinking that if we could stay here how nice it would be."
               "Come, Kate," cried Johnny, "let's go see about the baskets for to-morrow."
               "I'm with you, my boy."
               She was, evidently. With a jolly uproar the two disappeared towards the kitchen.
               "What do you think of this, mother?" said Mr. Wellson. "Will they not tire of the experiment in a few days?"
               "I think well of it. It will give them something to think about, and a sense of independence and helpfulness, I approve of the whole thing. As for becoming tired, I fear you do not know Kate. If she makes up her mind to do anything it will be done, if possible. As for Johnny,—wild boy that he appears,—he is persistency itself."
               "I am sure I am very glad to hear it, and hope pride will not lead them to hide their doings."
               To Mary this seemed a direct shot at herself, but she wisely said nothing.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               CONCERNING MRS. GRUNDY—WIDOW.
               WE must condense. The go-ahead Johnny and the lively Kate took their new work in hand, and, in spite of many troubles, vexations, and disappointments, pushed things with vigor and success.
               To be sure, they found it rather hard to be obliged to go to work picking strawberries as soon as they returned from school, and getting up so very early in the morning and carrying the berries through the streets was not equal to base-ball—as an amusement.
               Still they toiled on, cheered by the slowly increasing pile of scrip. About the fourth day of their experience a fresh trouble appeared,—an unlooked-for embarrassment of riches. There were more berries than they could pick unless assistance was procured.
               Their operations had fortunately begun at the very opening of the season. The warm and sheltered situation of their garden had favored them greatly. Their fruit was ripe several days earlier than that on the neighboring farms. This was the cause of the high price they obtained by their first sales. As soon as the berries began to come in from the surrounding country, down went the price.
               When, on the fourth day, Johnny returned with less money for his ten baskets than he had received before, Kate was discouraged.
               "It's too bad, Johnny. Only a shilling a quart, after we took so much pains with them."
               "Yes," said Johnny, hopefully; "but look at the garden. Who is to pick 'em all? We can't. They are too thick for us. If the price has gone down we'll make it up by selling a heap more."
               "Let's go look at them."
               "Let's—, but wait a bit. Hadn't we better call Mary? She hasn't helped us much so far."
               "She can't. She has to help at the mending, and you know how hard you are on your stockings."
               Reaching the strawberry-bed, both were surprised to see how abundant the crop was.
               "Can't help it, Kate. Mary'll have to help us. It will take all my time to sell such a lot of them."
               "So I will," said a voice near by.
               "There's Mary, now," cried Kate. "What can she be doing over in the field?"
               Johnny didn't know, but guessed she would have a hard time climbing over the stone wall. On the contrary, she found an easy place, and stepped from stone to stone as easily as if she had done it many times before. Perhaps she had.
               "There are a good many," said Mary, approaching the strawberry-plantation. "We must lose no time. Run, both of you, and bring as many baskets as you can carry."
               Little thinking how nicely they were sent away, Kate and her brother disappeared towards the house.
               "Now if he should come. No, he will not. It is too early. The clock—"
               She paused abruptly. The sound of voices from over the high fence startled her. The air was still, and the approaching twilight served to heighten the effect of sound, and sharpened Mary's unwilling ears. Two shrill females voices, talking in gossipy strain:—
               "It's the town talk."
               "Who'd a thought it of them? I would not, and yet Miss Squoggins was a-telling me how her brother bought 'em of the boy. Says he, 'They were fine berries,—best in the market.'
               "Sho! Well, I thought they'd have to come down. They was alwers a stuck-up set,—specially that Mary. She's a-setting her cap for the squire's son. Guess he wouldn't go that way much, if he knowed it."
               Here another and less harsh voice broke in: "I don't believe a word of it. And what if they does? Don't the squire's folks send a can of their extra milk over to the doctor's every morning, and do you think the squire's the man to give his Jersey cream away? Not he. He has a a price, and gets it, or my name isn't Polly Scrabbins. I mean to call on Mrs. Wellson and, if I stay to tea, I can tell whether they sell their berries or not."
               "You're a sharp un, widder Scrabbins. You're thinking of your own darter, aint yer? She's a-dying for the squire's son, herself,"
               "La—oh!"—
               Just here the noisy Johnny appeared with much clatter of empty baskets.
               "Say, Mary, have you been waiting here all the time?"
               "Yes," said she, speaking very loud, "I have."
               Voices: "Whist! She was a-listening, the minx!"
               Mary's face was white, and her eyes fairly blazed. "Give me a basket, Johnny; we shall not get a full crop unless we hurry."
               Johnny stared. What a voice his sister displayed!
               The three children worked hard till dark, and then with the piled-up baskets returned to the house. As quickly as possible Mary prepared herself for supper, and went to the parlor. As, she entered the room she met a faded, thin-faced woman, in dingy weeds, going out.
               "The intolerable creature has effrontery enough for a whole sewing circle."
               This to herself; for the visitor, only smiles, good-humor, and overwhelming politeness and attention.
               "O Mrs. Scrabbins! How do you do? Not going, are you? Won't you stay to tea?"
               
               "Oh, dear, no, thank you. I must hurry home."
               "We can't think of it. You must stay to tea. Come, let me help you take off your things. We shall be delighted to see more of you. You can tell us all the news. We are very quiet here, and seldom know what is going on in the world."
               In spite of her protestations the little widow found herself gently taken in hand, and treated to a most splendid strawberry supper. She had never eaten so many nor such luscious berries in her life. With most charming persistence Mrs. Wellson and her daughters plied her with good things, till she was forced to cry, "Enough!"
               When the family rose from the table, there was still a heaped-up plate of berries remaining.
               The surfeited widow departed, and the careful Kate turned the surplus berries into a basket, saying gravely to herself:—
               "I suppose our looking at 'em on the table won't hurt the sale."
               The days flew by, and the strawberry speculation prospered. Everybody in the house took hold with a will, and not a berry was lost.
               The season was drawing to a close, and the fruit grew scarce. In a few days it would be gone. One morning, as Johnny was trotting gayly home with his empty baskets and singing his favorite melody, "Captain Jinks," he met a young man walking leisurely along the village street. The thoughtless, boy rattled his baskets in time with his song, and behaved in a generally jolly and uproarious manner.
               The young man—a person evidently possessed of some brains and a fair education—glanced keenly at the boy, and then passed on. Turning a corner, he paused beneath a tree, and involuntarily began to stir the gravel on the walk with his heel. Lost in thought, he seemed to be undecided as to what to do next.
               "It is unworthy of her. I can hardly believe it. Yet here is her brother, plainly exposing the matter to all the village. Pshaw! It is unworthy of me to think ill of her, or to care if these things are partly true."
               Grinding his heel into the gravel he turned and went the other way.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               GOING INTO THE FRUIT TRADE.
               FINALLY the last berry was picked. The trade came to a stand-still, and the new income ceased. Unfortunately the Wellson expenses were increased at the same time for sundry causes: summer dresses, etc.
               Mr. Wellson came home one evening, looking tired and dispirited. Not even the helpful wife, nor cheerful children, could drive away the cloud that settled upon their bread-winner's face.
               The supper-table, usually a scene of mirth, was sombre enough. Even Mother Wellson's tea, a luxury in itself, was bitter, and the dip-toast unattractive.
               "What is the trouble?" said Mrs. Wellson.
               "The city thinks it must economize, and has taken away my assistant, without adding to my pay. The times are bad with me."
               "Perhaps they will mend soon. Things can't be dull forever."
               "I hope not, I'm sure."
               Mary searched for something in her teacup, with heavy eyes.
               "Will troubles never end?"
               Kate ate her toast in silence and bitterness.
               "One must eat, whatever happens."
               As for Johnny, he finished his meal and then went to his room. In a moment he returned, bringing an old collar-box, which he gave to his father with a slip of paper.
               "There, dad, I hope that will help you. This paper gives the list of the sales, and in the box is the money."
               Everybody brightened up. Mr. Wellson took the paper, glanced at it, and with a smile gave it to his wife.
               "Really, Johnny, have you made no mistakes? Can it be possible our little strawberry garden yielded so much?"
               "Don't think I did, sir. Count the money and see."
               The box was opened, and the contents turned out upon the table. Such a heap of scrip and bills! Positively, it looked cheerful, in spite of its unattractive appearance.
               "Led us a hand, girls. Here's wealth for the counting."
               Hastily clearing away the tea-things, Kate land Mary busily turned the heap of money over, spreading each denomination by itself, and then carefully adding them up. Johnny stood by, an interested spectator, till the final grand total was announced.
               "Two hundred and two quarts sold. Cash: Forty dollars and forty cents. That's about twenty cents each," said Mr. Wellson.
               Mary turned away, sick at heart. "Then we must move. Only forty dollars! A long way from the necessary hundred." This, meditatively, after her usual fashion.
               "I really do not understand it," said Mrs. Wellson. "There is Farmer Gooding, selling strawberries by the hundred boxes a day, and yet he says he never gets more than eighteen cents, on an average."
               "I can understand that. Our fruit was more carefully picked, was fresh, and not injured by having the hulls torn off. It had not travelled all night in a wagon, nor lain in a warm store half a day. Nor was it packed in tight wooden boxes, to ruin the flavor."
               "And Johnny got fancy prices at first, as there were no native berries in the market," said Kate.
               "Yes," added he, "the market men said they were prime berries. So they were. We took pains with them, I'm sure. Didn't we, Kate?"
               "Guess we did, my boy."
               More discussion was had over the matter, and also concerning the further troubles that had fallen upon the family. A sorrowful, dull, prosy matter, that we will skip entirely.
               The final result may be of interest.
               "We may as well put our pride in our pockets, and do the best we can. Your mother and I have canvassed this matter, and find that we cannot better ourselves by moving; therefore we will remain where we are—but we must reduce our expenses."
               "How?" said Mary, brightening up.
               "Keep no servant, and live in a more simple—"
               "And raise strawberries," exclaimed Johnny. "Hi! won't it be fun? We can plant the whole place to strawberries."
               At this startling announcement the company were completely demoralized.
               The lively Kate thought it would be perfectly jolly, and she and her brother at once began to lay plans for the proposed strawberry garden. Even Mary thought that would be better than moving away. So greatly excited did the young people become over this project, that it was nearly eleven o'clock before they sought their respective "downies" for the night.
               Mr. Wellson, far from discouraging this idea, gave it his cordial support, and said to his wife, as they were shutting up the house:—
               "I shall be glad to have them try it, even if they make nothing by it. It will take them out of doors, give them a healthful employment, and teach them, not only to work, but much useful and valuable knowledge."
               The next morning the entire family went out to inspect their garden, and to decide what should be done first.
               To understand all their doings, we must take a slight glance into the history of the place.
               The estate had been in their hands about four years, and represented the small legacy from the Wellson family property. As has already been described; the garden lay on the south side of the house, and was closed in on the east and west by high buildings. The south and only open side admitted sunlight and warmth. A better aspect for a garden could not be devised. In area, the space, free from trees, measured something more than thirty thousand feet. A row of pear-trees extended across the northern end, and divided the small grass-spot next the house from the garden proper. The omission of two trees in the centre allowed a path to extend straight down through the centre of the estate, and gave a chance for a pretty view from the dining-room windows. At the lower or southern end of the garden the gravelled walk ended abruptly at the stone wall.
               For the last four years the place had been used for a kitchen-garden. During the first three years, a gardener, who had planted and tended the crops each season had been employed. The previous summer the entire garden had been planted with strawberries. This season the gardener had not been employed, and the place had run wild with weeds, and presented a forlorn and neglected appearance.
               "A sorry-looking place," said Mr. Wellson, when they had all assembled on the path. "The principal crop seems to be weeds."
               "Never mind," said his wife, cheerfully; "Johnny is equal to them."
               "Guess I am," said he, stooping down and grasping a huge dandelion with both hands. "Come up out of this, Mr. Lion's tooth."
               It was a double-fanged molar, and refused to stir.
               "Pull away, my boy,—he's coming!" cried Kate. Johnny struggled bravely. Suddenly up came the weed, and down went Johnny with heels in air, accompanied by a triumphal fountain of dust, to celebrate the hero's prowess.
               "You troublesome boy!" exclaimed Mary, brushing the dust from her dress.
               "Ha! ha!" cried Kate. "What a pyrotechnical weed-puller you are!"
               Johnny scrambled to his feet amid the laughter of the company, and, having shaken himself, displayed the weed, saying:—
               "Well, it's up, any way."
               "At that rate," said his father, "you will be a long time clearing the place."
               "Never mind, Johnny. You shall have proper tools, and be saved any further ground and lofty tumblings."
               The subject of tools opened considerable discussion, which resulted in a resolve that a part of the forty dollars should be used to purchase a digging-fork, to enable Johnny to clear the place of weeds. While they confessed that they knew little or nothing of strawberry culture, yet this much they did know,—first, clear the land of weeds and stones, of which latter there was a liberal supply.
               Immediately after dinner, with a bran-new five-pronged digging-fork, light and easy to handle, Johnny began the culture of strawberries. The admiring Kate sat in the little wheelbarrow on the walk, and looked proudly on. As soon as a small space was clear, she procured from the wood-shed an iron rake, and began to gather the debris into heaps. With many struggles, much sweat, and, as Johnny said, "a pretty large tired," the place was partially cleared of weeds. It looked pretty rough and irregular, but was clean.
               By the time supper was ready they both found themselves ready to, as Kate said, "slay any amount of bread and butter." The wheelbarrow, which they had not found time to use, was returned to the shed, and the tools put away for the night. Thus ended the first day.
               As they entered the house the cheerful fragrance of supper greeted their sharp young noses.
               "I'm going down to see what Helen has nice for supper," said Kate.
               On entering the kitchen she was surprised to find Helen—the one servant—gone. At the stove stood her sister, looking "good enough to eat," in her nice white apron and simple dress.
               "Hallo, Polly! Playing cook?"
               "Yes, in dead earnest."
               "Wherefore? Where's Helen?"
               "Gone,—for good."
               "O Polly!" cried Kate, flinging her liberal arms round her pretty sister. "You are a darling—duck of—a dear— There's a kiss for you."
               "Goodness, child! See what you have done."
               "What, dearie?"
               "Upset the teapot—and made me burn the toast."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               CREEPING BEFORE WALKING.
               THE following day the weeds were all forked out, and lay in heaps about the place.
               The next day it rained till quite late in the afternoon. About five it cleared away, and the impatient Johnny trundled his wheelbarrow down the walk, to remove the heaps of weeds scattered round. As he took up the first pile he made a discovery.
               "That's queer! Took root again and started to grow in one night. Lucky I began to remove them. Another day and the work would have to be done again.
               So it was that our hero began to gather from nature facts both useful and interesting. Of course he never forgot them so long as he lived.
               By sundown the weeds were carefully piled up in a heap in an out-of-the-way corner, preparatory to turning them into compost. This, his father had instructed him to do. The latter had obtained the idea from an agricultural paper, all of which goes to prove that he was a sensible man. In the same dark corner, at the end of the row of pear-trees, stood, partly out of sight, a common chain pump; beside it, along the fence, lay several long wooden spouts. The use of these will be made plain in due time.
               The stones that lay scattered over the ground were also taken up and deposited in a heap by the wall, where a cart could at some future time call and take them away.
               We may here state that the dwelling-house occupied the northern half of the Wellson estate, and that they hid no other buildings of any kind,—simply a square two-story house, with an L attached, such as can be seen by the score in any modern New England village.
               Before the house, and extending to the street, was a bit of lawn with a few shrubs. The trees on the sidewalk furnished a slight screen from the gaze of passers in carriages, and a pretty wooden fence shut out pedestrians. Altogether it was a simple: yet comfortable home. Home,—that's it. It was home; a place endeared to them all, and we cannot wonder at the Wellson aversion to leaving it.
               As Johnny went in to supper that night, he found Kate busily examining a pile of books.
               "I'm digging into the books, my boy. Learned a heap of things already. Father brought these two from Loring's, and I got another from the Public Library."
               "Good for you, Kate! We'll attack 'em after supper."
               So they did. Tea being over, the household assembled round the evening lamp, and every one became interested in the new project. The three books each had a reader, and the others discussed matters as best they might.
               After a while they came to this conclusion: Whatever was to be done must be done at once. The garden was already planted; that had been done the previous season. But what was to be done now? To let it alone they knew was not the thing. Those queer, straggling runners the strawberry will persist in sending out were starting, and no doubt they needed attention. But how to give it?
               "I hardly know. You must ask Farmer Gooding, or go out to Mattapanset and see Mr. Harker," said Mr. Wellson.
               "That would be fun," said Johnny. "Would you like to go too, Kate? School does not keep to-morrow."
               "Yes, I should. I was reading about Mr. Harker's strawberries in the 'Transcript' the other evening. He sells hundreds of boxes a day to the rich folks who drive past his place, and I'd like to see how it looks."
               "And if you are bright," said Mary, "you will keep your eyes open, and see how they carry things on there. You may learn something useful. To tell the truth, we none of us know much concerning this matter, and must learn all we can by observation."
               "You may trust Kate for that," said Mrs. Wellson. "If there is anything to be seen she will both see and remember it."
               Kate's eyes shone, and Johnny patted her on the back, saying, "You are a dreadful good girl, Kate, and you shall go with me."
               "It's quite proper I should," she replied, in a patronizing manner. "You need some one to matronize you."
               Accordingly, to the city, and from thence, by horse-cars to Mattapanset, went, the next day, the lively Kate and her wide-awake brother.
               The horse-car passed within a few steps of the place. They both got out and walked down a broad street, having an old, dismantled hotel, with its great courts and broad avenues, on one side, and a low stone wall, with market gardens beyond, on the other.
               A quiet, sleepy place, having an air of age and decay not often seen in New England towns. There were no manufactories, or even new houses about; nothing but the dull and stately residences of retired merchants gardens, and peaceful farm-houses.
               Our two young people walked in silence under the tall trees that lined the way, till they came to a side street turning to the right and leading towards a small, unpretending house standing alone on a grassy hill-side.
               Not a person was in sight, and they began to be alarmed, fearing the whole place had gone to sleep, or was away on a visit.
               "Dear me!" exclaimed Kate. "I should not care to live here. It's so lonely and dull. Every house in sight looks as if it were fast asleep. Mr. Harker's is, at any rate, for it has shut its eyes."
               "Nonsense, Kate! There must be somebody about."
               "Perhaps so; but the house is asleep. Don't you see all the blinds are shut? I'm almost afraid to ring the bell, for fear it would gape and open its eyes suddenly."
               Timidly walking up the broad, smooth drive, they approached the house and looked about them. Just beyond the house stood a neat barn and shed. Everything was clean, prim, and sober. The lawns on either side were smooth, and even the wide-spreading strawberry beds that crowned the hill, were as straight and regular as if prepared for the most precise private grounds. No appearance of business or farm life was to be seen. All was finished and elegant.
               "We ought to have wiped our feet on a mat before we entered the drive-way," said Kate. "The road is as nice as a kitchen floor, and the grass is like a parlor carpet. But, dear me, how sleepy it is! Now I suppose we must ring, whatever happens."
               Johnny was on the point of ringing the bell, when they saw a man leisurely walking over the grass towards them.
               "Mr. Harker," said Kate. "Don't ring, Johnny." The man saw and advanced towards them: a stout, well built person, with a sun-bronzed face that at once indicate, strength and brains,—a gentleman and a farmer. Higher praise cannot be given. His eyes were blue, and full of good nature and kindness.
               The usual greetings were exchanged, and Kate having briefly stated their mission, the three crossed the smooth grass towards the strawberry beds that spread out fair and wide over the hill-side. They were several acres in extent, and all in one continuous piece. One portion appeared to be new, as if but recently planted, while the other part was thickly matted with vines, having narrow paths at equal distances cut through it. All around in a wide border stretched the green and level grass. This gave to the strawberry plantation an air of finish and elegance, while it took away all appearance of business; yet the whole thing meant business, and nothing else. It was cultivated for profit, and for that alone. The combination of the sweeping lawns and regular strawberry beds was artistic, and according to the best rules of landscape gardening. It accorded with the surrounding estates, and served to show that gardening need not of itself be altogether unlovely and rude.
               "Now, Mr. Harker, tell us all about it. We have come to learn, and want to see everything that will be of use to us."
               "To see all, Miss Kate, would take a year. We can only examine those operations now going on. The rest I must tell you as best I can."
               "That's very kind in you, I'm sure. To begin, why are these planted so wide apart? The space between the rows in our garden is not half so great."
               That part of the plantation they had now reached was set with young strawberry plants standing in long rows. Each row was six feet apart, and the plants twelve inches apart in the rows. The space between was bare, and had apparently been recently cultivated.
               "Here," said Mr. Harker, "you see the first step in the business; say, rather, the second step. The first consisted in preparing the ground, by ploughing in a liberal supply of decayed stable manure, and then reducing the ground to a fine surface by repeated harrowings. Then in the damp, cool weather of early May the plants were set out as you see. Since then the horse-cultivator has traversed the ground occasionally, to keep it mellow and clean. Do you understand it all?"
               "Nearly, sir," said Kate. "I do not know how you set out the plants. Our gardener did that for us last August, and at that time I cared nothing about it, and did not even take the trouble to see him do it."
               "The mere setting of the plants is very simple. Having procured the plant, and cut or torn away the old runners or leaves that may cling to them, set them in the ground in any way your ingenuity may suggest. The whole affair is so simple any bright boy or girl could do it at once, provided they understood this one principle,—to have the roots placed in a hole sufficiently large to receive them without crowding or bending them out of their natural shape. The size and depth of the hole will be decided by the size and length of the roots. For tools use your hands, or a trowel. The soil ought to be deep and mellow, and if it is so, plunging the hand into it, and setting the plant firm and upright, will be neither difficult nor disagreeable."
               "I should think it would be fun," said Johnny.
               "It is certainly not hard. Boys, or women, do it quite as well as the best of men. The German women I employ do nearly all the work, except holding the plough or spreading manure. That is beyond their strength. There are several ways of making the hole into which the young strawberry plant is set. One is to punch a hole with a blunt-pointed instrument called a "dibble" or "dibber." It is nothing more than the handle of an abandoned spade cut off and sharpened to a point. With it, plants may be set out at the rate of two a minute. I do not think it the best way, though it is much used by foreign gardeners. It crowds the roots into too small a space, and does not leave the ground smooth. Another way is to scratch out with a hoe a rude trench, into which the plants are dropped, and then the hoe is used to cover them. This might be called the lazy man's method, and, though often successful, I cannot recommend it."
               "Then our gardener must have used a hoe, for here and there a plant is missing, and the rows are broken."
               
               "They were set in August, you said?"
               "Yes, sir. It was very warm weather, and I remember he had to water them often, to keep them from dying."
               "That was the cause of the failure. There is but one time in the year to plant strawberries, and that is the spring. Many people think differently, but my experience leads me to plant only in May. So strongly am I impressed with this, that I now refuse to sell plants in the fall, as I know the result will only be a loss of both plants, labor, and temper. Fall planting is possible, but spring planting so superior, that I sometimes wonder any one ever attempts any other. Then the fact that the plants are only saved, when planted in the fall, by liberal waterings, is an objection. If a plant will not flourish of its own unaided strength, it had better die. It is a poor thing, not worth the keeping. In May, watering is not required."
               "Now," said Kate, "you have reached our case. Our plants are set out, and they look precisely like these. Long rows of plants just sending out runners."
               "Except, Kate," said Johnny, "that our rows are twice as thick."
               "Then you had better pull up every alternate row, so that there will be a space of six feet between them."
               "Will they ever cover such a wide space, Mr. Harker?"
               "No; you must leave a path in the middle, three feet wide and quite bare. This may seem extravagant of space; but, in my experience, the plants become so large, and hang over the path so much, that the pickers tread upon and destroy more berries than the space is worth. I began with narrow paths, only to extend them a little each year, till now they are, as you see, three feet wide."
               Just at this point a man appeared, leading a horse harnessed to a narrow stone roller. Behind came a couple of bronze-faced German women.
               "Now," said Mr. Harker to the children, "you can see the next operation. You will notice that the entire six feet of space is bare, and that the runners are crowded up against the plants. That was caused by the cultivator. As it passed over the ground, it swept the runners one side, and they clustered about the plants unharmed. The next thing is to mark off a space three feet wide in the centre. This is done by the roller. It is just three feet wide, and, as it is dragged along, it rolls the ground down smooth for the path, and marks the place where the new plants are to be set. This having been done, the women come after, and, selecting a strong runner, pin it down to the soil with a small stone, so that the new plant, when it takes root, will stand opposite, and just eighteen inches from the old plant."
               The horse stepped into the ploughed land, and the roller went trundling down the hill, leaving its smooth track behind. Then the women placed quickly and accurately a runner at the edge of the path, and opposite each old plant. A little arithmetic will show that the edge of the walk would be just eighteen inches from the rows of plants, so that it was an accurate and easily made guide to the workers.
               "What will you do with all the other runners?" said Kate.
               "Cut them off. As you see, each woman has a pair of small scissors, and snips off all the runners except the two that are to be spread out on either side."
               Johnny gazed earnestly at these things for some time, and then said:
               "I see what it is. This is hill culture. One plant standing alone and all the runners removed,—and—but—no,—it is not quite that, after all, for you do take two runners."
               "I don't wonder you are perplexed," said Mr. Harker. "This is a combination of the two plans,—hill and field culture. Hill culture means, as you say, that each plant stands alone, and is deprived of all its runners. The people who practise it claim that the strength of the plant, instead of being wasted in bearing young plants, is saved, greatly to the advantage of the expected crops. In using this method, they usually set each plant out by itself just where it is to stand.
               "In theory they are right. Cut off the runners, and the crop is larger and finer. I practise hill culture, with this slight difference,—I do not set out all the plants at once. I set but one in three, and take from the one the two that are to follow. This is not enough to hurt the plant, and the two new ones find a mellow, warm soil to root in. The advantage of free horse culture more than offsets the extra labor of pinning down the new plants. As for removing the other runners, that would have to be done in any case."
               Kate and Johnny felt sure that they now understood the matter, and were prepared to practise it on their own account. They stood for a while watching the two women deftly setting the expected plants, and then passed on over the hill to where further operations were being carried on. Coming to a place where a man was at work, they were surprised to find him planting turnips, right in the middle of the paths cut through the strawberry beds. The plants in these beds had just produced their second crop, and were thickly matted together; the great broad leaves covering all the space between the plants, and even encroaching on the wide path.
               "There," said Mr. Harker, "is a number of beds that have produced fruit twice, and are too much exhausted to be worth further culture. I now have the centre of each path planted with turnips, or some other crop, and when the time comes to cultivate it, I put in a light plough, and turn the strawberry plants and all right under. The plants decay, and by fall the ground is ploughed over, and all is smooth and clear, and ready for next spring's crop, whatever it may be. I can again plant strawberries, sow it down to grass, or plant root crops. To set it again with strawberries would be the least profitable way, as a change in the crop is best for he land."
               "Were you to use strawberries the next year, you would get no return for your land?"
               "No. It produces nothing, while the plants are growing. To offset that, I get three crops the two next seasons,—two of berries, and one of turnips, or something else."
               These, and many other matters, the children examined with interest. To tell of all they saw and heard would involve more time than we have at command. Their after experience in the care of their own strawberry garden must explain so much as concerns us. They spent several hours with Mr. Harker, visiting his splendid great barn, on another part of the estate, the pear orchard, and vegetable gardens. Everywhere they went, neatness, order, and thrift greeted them. The plants and trees were models of their kind, and, as for weeds, they were not sure that they saw even one. Like good children they went home early, and reported to the assembled supper-table all of their doings and hearings at Mr. Harker's, in the sleepy old town of Mattapanset. [See Appendix A.]
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               HELP FROM A NEW QUARTER.
               THE next day, 11 A M. Kate and Johnny in earnest consultation in the strawberry garden. Every alternate row of strawberry plants had been pulled out, and there low remained thirty-six rows, each about two hundred feet long; the space occupied by the garden being about thirty thousand feet. The removal of the extra rows was a trifling matter, and quickly accomplished. The remaining ones were more or less damaged,—a plant here and there missing. To extend the runners, now quite long, on either side was easy enough, but to repair the breaks puzzled them.
               "I'm sure I can't fix 'em," said Johnny. "There are six plants gone in one row."
               Kate replied that it was beyond her.
               "We might pull a runner round sideways at each end of the gap; even then there would be four plants still wanting."
               Just at this point who should appear but Farmer Gooding, a "truck farmer" living about a mile up the road. He was dressed in his common blue frock, and came striding down the walk, whip in hand, in his usual energetic manner.
               
               "Good-mornin', children. What ye 'bout?"
               "Good-morning, Mr. Gooding," said Kate. "What can we do for you?"
               "Oh, nuthing, nuthing, thank ye. I was at the house and saw ye at work and came to see ye. What ye doing?"
               "Setting the runners on the strawberry plants."
               "Law! bless ye! Do ye take all that trouble? Mine have to set themselves. 'Twould take more than a month to set mine. They are too thick. I let 'em run where they will."
               "Do you think it is the best way?" said Johnny.
               "Well, yes—ginerally. I s'pect they do bear more by cutting the runners; but I never could come down to such fine knitting-work. It don't pay."
               "Mr. Harker thinks it does," ventured Kate.
               "Mebbe so. Folks is different."
               With many comments on what the children were doing, the stout, burly man strode about the ground, examining closely all that was going on.
               Seeing one of the sad gaps in the rows, he said:—
               "You can mend that in the fall. Let a few plants run, and then pick 'em up and set 'em in these spaces some rainy day in September. Fall planting is ginerally no use, 'cept ye take all the pains in the world. Hallo! Grapes need pinching, bad."
               By this time he had reached the fence where the grapevines vines were hanging luxuriously from the trellises. The young fruit was just forming and the green and vigorous shoots hung thick and tangled, or waved freely in the wind. At the top of the trellis the vines were boldly climbing the fence, and threatened to invade the neighboring gardens.
               "This won't do," said the farmer.
               "What?" said Kate.
               "Ye must pinch 'em. Ought to have been done before. See—"
               So saying, he with his fingers broke off a green shoot about a foot long.
               "There. Ye must break, not cut, away the ends of the shoots that have fruit on 'em, at the second leaf beyond the last bunch. It keeps the vine from wasting its strength on the wood instead of the fruit."
               The children did not quite understand it all, and their instructor pointed out to them that the fruit was hanging on green shoots that had grown out of the old stalk, or cane. The two or three bunches hung close to the main cane, and beyond them the shoot extended for a foot or more. Were it suffered to grow as it pleased, the shoot would extend to an inordinate length at the expense of the crop. To prevent this waste of strength it was "pinched off" at the second leaf beyond the last or outermost bunch, and all further extension prevented. Growth would not cease, and, instead of a long, thin, valueless shoot, they would have larger and better fruit growing upon a stouter cane. Every way a better arrangement.
               Kate and Johnny were at first surprised at the audacity of this proceeding, and positively alarmed when Farmer Gooding advised them to go over the whole trellis and serve every bearing shoot and all the top or end shoots in the same way.
               "It's the only way. Ought to been done a month back. There'll be a decent crop there, if ye 'tend to 'em."
               Kate and Johnny declared they certainly would do so, and soon after, their new instructor went away, careless that he had sown good seed in ready ground.
               "So queer! said Kate. "He does not like knitting-work, and yet he pinches his grapes."
               To give the details of all the horticultural doings and sayings of the Wellsons' would involve more time than we have at command. In brief, they went over their little plantation, and with infinite pains did all they could to carry out the directions they had received. Johnny plied his hoe vigorously, while Kate and Mary assisted, with an old pair of scissors, in cutting away the extra runners, and blunted their pretty fingers in "pinching" the grapes.
               Did they not find it hard work? Oh! of course. That was the very thing best for them and what they wanted. Good, healthy out-of-door work, if not in excess, is the best thing ever given to three such sensible young folks as these same Wellsons.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               HYDRAULICS.
               IT was a cool, bright day, with flying clouds and a fresh breeze. Nothing had been done that day in the Wellson strawberry plantation and all was quiet.
               The young plants stood fresh and stiff in their thin rows, and the horticultural prospect was smiling.
               About four o'clock John, Jr., appeared upon the scene. Gravely walking up and down the gravelled path he studied the plants, the sky, and the white masses of clouds piled up in the west and north-west. After a while he said:—
               "Going to rain 'fore night. Shouldn't wonder if we had a thunder-storm. Wind's north. Couldn't find a better time if I tried."
               Walking around the house, he went out upon the village sidewalk. Here he had a better view of the northern sky.
               "It's coming, sure. Guess I'll begin."
               Without further thought he went to the chain-pump that stood in the corner of the garden by the fence. Here, from the ground beside the fence, he took a long wooden spout, made of two boards nailed together V fashion. Placing one under the spout of the pump, he laid the other down between the rows of strawberries. Then to the pump. Grasping the handle he began to turn it rapidly. A thick, inky current of water flowed forth and rushed in a muddy stream through the spout, and then spread itself slowly down the slope of the garden, among the plants. A strong odor arose, but as the north wind blew fresh past the house and out over the empty fields, no inconvenience resulted to anybody.
               As the black stream spread over the garden, it rolled sluggishly down the slope and finally reached the end of the place. Seeing this, Johnny ceased his efforts, and, procuring a hoe, quickly made a little dam in the stream, and by a bit of hydraulic engineering turned the course of the black river to the next row of plants.
               Again the crank was turned, and the turbid water gushed forth and flooded still more of the plantation.
               So it went on. Each time the stream reached the foot of the slope a new channel was formed, and the flood directed elsewhere. As can be easily seen, this operation was a species of irrigation, only, instead of pure river or spring water, he used a richly ladened stream full of plant food of the most valuable kinds.
               One side of the garden having been thus freely flooded, more spouts were procured, and joined one to another they carried the life-giving current across the path and on to the other bed.
               Just as it began to flow in the new direction, the clouds threatened rain in real earnest; the thunder muttered.
               "Good!" cried John, Jr. "It's coming. Providence is on my side this time. The rain will wash it in finely."
               The thunder pealed louder, and a few big drops pattered down. The crank flew round, and the black river spread in widening floods over the ground. The lightning flashed and the thunder pealed at the same instant. The storm was at hand. Still the sturdy John, Jr., maintained his post. When the current was to be turned, he plied his hoe with speed and dexterity; he also turned the crank swiftly, and pushed his hydraulics with vigor and success. Just as the stream flowed down the last strawberry row, the storm burst upon him. The dust from the road swept like a whirlwind down the place, the pear-trees bent before the blast, and the rain came down in a flood. John, Jr., made a vigorous push for the paternal mansion, and just escaped a plentiful ducking.
               In a short time the shower passed over, and he went out to see what was the result of the combined artificial and natural hydraulics.
               All traces of the irrigation were gone,—swept away by the rain; yet the desired result had been obtained,—the plants had been fed.
               The next day the ground was lightly stirred with a hoe, and everything made smooth and sweet again. For that matter, no unpleasantness could be discovered by the time the shower had passed. The soil acted as a disinfectant, and absorbed both the water and odor.
               The cistern built to catch all the wastage of every kind from the house and the pump, to spread in a harmless and perfectly proper manner over the land, made the secret of the Wellson success. Without this weekly application to the plants, such a garden, and bearing such crops, would have been nearly impossible. To the chain-pump they owed everything. The great principle, "Waste not anything," as here applied, is the one secret of all successful horticulture. If all the refuse of each dwelling in the land were as carefully saved and returned to the soil, the barren hills of New England would vie with the prairies in fertility, and millions upon millions of money, that now flows into our seaports and rivers, would reward the toiling farmer, or gladden the patient gardener.
               As it now is, we waste and abandon each year more than enough to support every living creature for life, were it all returned to its proper place,—the soil.
               One of the chief objects in writing this book is to illustrate the value of this much-neglected principle,—"Waste not anything,"—and to show a way of preventing it. [See Appendix B.]
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               UPS AND DOWNS.
               THE weeks flew away, and September arrived. The green grapes turned purple on the vines, and the strawberry plants grew apace. Frosty nights threatened to cut off the grape crop; but happily it escaped. The warm, sheltered situation caused the berries to show color several days earlier than in the surrounding country, and the first ripe bunch was gathered one Saturday noon by the impatient Johnny, as soon as he returned from school. It was a fine large cluster, and beautifully covered with bloom. Taking it to the house, he showed it in triumph to his sisters. Mary merely glanced at it, and then went on with her sewing. She was dull and listless then, and did not seem to care for anything in particular. The garden was a sorrow and trial to her. The less she heard of it, the better. Had it not ruined her every prospect? Ten days had slipped away since she had seen him, and no word or sign had she received in all that time. It must be that he had been driven away by seeing her at work in the garden with her brother and sister.
               Not so with the lively Kate.
               
               "You don't mean it, my boy! Ripe already! What are you going to do with it?"
               "Use it for a sample. Take it round and show it to the dealers as a specimen of our crop."
               "So I would. I'd go this afternoon. You can have my lunch-basket to carry it in, and I'll line it with soft white paper, so that it will look extra fine."
               "Good for you, Kate! I'll start right after dinner."
               He did so. Trotting gayly along with his basket he little heeded the passers, or what they might think of him. Entering the first provision store he came to he displayed his sample bunch of grapes, and offered his crop at market rates, whatever they might be. The man in the store questioned him concerning his fruit, and told him to bring bushel of them as soon as they were ready.
               "What do you mean to pay for them?"
               "Can't tell. See how they look, and how the market stands. Western grapes will be here. soon, and then they will be cheap enough."
               Johnny mentally hoped that the western grapes would stay away a few days. On entering another store, he met with nearly the same experience. They would buy them if as good as the sample. Feeling highly elated at the prospect of the market, he thought he would treat himself. He had worked hard all summer, and virtue should be rewarded. He would indulge in a few peanuts.
               An ancient female, of Irish descent, commonly sat at the foot of a certain tree, knitting a stocking, and tending, her little fruit-stand. To her he turned his steps. Arrived there he was surprised to find quite a number of people collected around the spot. Pushing through the crowd, he discovered the peanut stand gone, and in its place a huge hamper piled high with fresh grapes. The old woman, usually so quiet, was all activity, weighing and selling her fruit to an eager company of purchasers. In a moment or two all were supplied, and there was a lull in the trade. The western grapes had come.
               "Say, granny, where are your peanuts?"
               "Peanuts! Why would I have peanuts when the grapes is come?"
               Johnny was struck with a new idea and the saleswoman turned to another customer. This was a young man, who, as soon as his purchase was made, turned to go away. As he did so he caught sight of Johnny. He paused and then said:—
               "Is your name Wellson?"
               "Yes, sir. John Wellson, Jr. What's yours?"
               The young, man did not reply, but tumbled in his pocket for something.
               "Could you do me a favor?"
               "Guess I could, if it is not holding horses or running errands. Don't like to go errands."
               "It's nothing very severe; merely to give this note to, Miss Wellson."
               
               Johnny took the delicately scented little note held out to him and turned it over gingerly.
               "Oh! it's for sister, is it? I'll give it to her. I'll put it in the bottom of my basket."
               So saying, he opened his basket and displayed his one bunch of grapes.
               "Them's foine grapes, honey. Do you want to sell sich?"
               "Yes," said Johnny, bravely. "I've got a big crop. They will be ripe soon."
               "I'll give ye tin cents a pound for 'em, honey."
               The young man stared at the two, and then turned away.
               "So it is all true. Here is the boy exposing his doings without a blush. If so much is true, it may be all true."
               Speaking out suddenly: "Here! young Wellson, let me see that note again."
               But Johnny had gone. Delighted to find still further market for his fruit, he had gone home, swinging his basket as he went.
               Arrived there he went to his sister's room. She was not there.
               "Gone out," said Kate.
               Johnny dived into his basket for the note. Alas! it was not there,—lost!
               Johnny's mental atmosphere was depressed. Had we been able to put a barometer into his mind we should have found that it sank rapidly, and finally stood very low.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               WINTER—HORTICULTURALLY AND SENTIMENTALLY CONSIDERED.
               TO be brief, our Johnny, with Kate's assistance, gathered and sold their crop of grapes. The hydraulics indulged in during the summer had greatly stimulated the vines, and the warm and sheltered situation ripened the fruit quickly and thoroughly. There were about forty vines in all, and, fortunately for Johnny, the gardener formerly employed had taken good care of them and they were in fine condition. They covered the fence on both sides of the garden, and hung heavy with fruit.
               Our hero was much perplexed to decide between the various stores that were ready to take the grapes. Some would pay one price, some another. One man only wanted a few pounds a day, and another the whole crop, provided it was low-priced. Even the peanut woman wanted a few pounds.
               The whole family sat in council upon the subject, and it was decided that, as the children had but little time to spare from school, it was best to get rid of the fruit in the quickest and easiest way possible. To be sure, by running about a little, better figures, could be obtained, yet time was worth something.
               So the market-man who took the strawberries had the entire crop, sending a team to take it away, and paying ten cents a pound for the lot.
               It amounted to four hundred and fifty-two pounds, which, at ten cents, would be forty-five dollars and twenty cents.
               This, if we consider the matter, was not a very large result; there being forty vines it averaged only a little over ten pounds to a vine. A fair produce, and no more. Another year's growth, and still greater care in culture, might produce something better.
               However this may be the proud John, Jr., was content. The desired hundred dollars had been nearly touched. Upon a sheet of note-paper he made out a statement of the summer's work and the grand result.
               Here it is:— 
                     
                        Received for strawberries
                        $40 40
                     
                     
                        " " Grapes
                        45 20
                     
                     
                        
                        $85 60
                     
                     
                        Paid for Tools 
                        4 50
                     
                     
                        " " Baskets
                        2 00
                     
                     
                        
                        6 50
                     
                     
                        Balance
                        $79 10
                     
                  
               
               In view of this result the Wellson family resolved to stay where they were. The deficit had been made up. The lessened expense, brought about by dispensing during the summer with Helen, the maid-of-all-work, and the fruit crop, tided them over this shallow place in their lives and all went smooth again. Not all serene, however. Mary was ill. As the fall burned away into the winter, and the trees exchanged their green and gold for sombre gray, she, too, seemed to droop and fade. Helen was taken back again, and the family doctor privately asked to give his opinion. He was puzzled at first. Then he said, "Her digestion is good and her pulse quiet. She is well physically; how she is mentally, could not say. Should judge something disturbed her peace of mind."
               Something did decidedly. The note lost by the careless Johnny, and the sudden discovery of a certain trunk marked for foreign parts at the door of the express office, as she passed one day, combined with a mysterious silence on the part of some one, and a more mysterious and indefinite something in the social atmosphere about her, drove her in upon herself, and she became possessed of a spirit of unrest and melancholy.
               November arrived, with frosty nights and dull, cold days. The leaves fell from the grape-vines, and the strawberry-vines turned dark and dry.
               The first most important thing in the horticultural programme for the season was to prune the grape-vines and lay them down for the winter.
               "I'm sure I don't know how to do it," said Johnny, as he contemplated the tangled mass of vines scrambling over the fence.
               Kate was there, and, girl-like, said, "Ask somebody. There must be a way, somehow."
               "No doubt. Lots of ways. 'Cording to the books there's a dozen."
               "Let's take the easiest. Let me get the book, and perhaps we can make it out by comparing it with the vines."
               Kate procured from the house a work on the culture of the grape, and began to study it carefully.
               "Bless me! I can't make anything of it. There are all sorts of directions about cane-pruning, fan-pruning, and a dozen other distracting things."
               "Let me see," said Johnny. "Are there not some pictures? They will help us more than any amount of reading matter."
               "So they will. See!"
               Opening the book, Kate displayed two simple cuts. One marked "fan-pruning," and one "spur-pruning."
               "That's him! Fan-pruning!" cried Kate. "Don't you see that is the way the gardener did it last year? See, there are the three sticks,—these." And she pointed to three, stout, radical arms, reaching from a common root, and spreading in a fan-shape over the trellis that was fastened to the fence.
               "I don't see 'em, Kate. The thing is one grand snarl and jumble of crossing vines."
               "Yes. There they are. Don't you see they are bigger than the others? And—" she paused to examine the vine closely.
               "And there are the little stumps on them as in the pictures. See, the small shoots grow right out of them each time. Give me the knife. I know how to do it."
               Johnny stood lost in wonder, while the bright Kate slashed away in her impulsive style at the vine. The long stems fell about her, and in a moment the tangled mass of twisted vine was reduced to three simple stalks, or canes, about five feet long. Up and down each one she allowed the stumps of the side shoots to remain. Upon each was one or more plump buds. She did not notice them, and though the method she had pursued was a correct one, yet she had chanced upon it almost by accident. The picture had given her the idea in part, and a shrewd guess did the rest.
               Johnny gazed at the denuded vine, and then at the book.
               "Hooray! Kate. You've hit it! Now let us see you do it again."
               "Come on, my boy."
               Proudly swinging her knife, she advanced to the next vine. Here was a superb tangle. A perfect thicket of interlacing shoots struggled about the trellis.
               Kate paused, appalled at the prospect.
               "This is a tough one, Johnny."
               "Thought you'd be puzzled. I can't see how they do it, for the life of me."
               "Can't see what?" said a voice near by. Turning round they beheld their sister.
               "This plaguy pruning. The book says it must be done in the fall. It's time now, and I can't make anything of it."
               "Let me see the book."
               Johnny handed the open book to Mary, and she began to study it intently.
               "It is rather obscure. The writer seems to think we know all about it; whereas, we know nothing."
               "Any way," said Kate, "I did it once, and made it look just like the picture."
               "So you did; but still I don't understand it. Let us read more. We may find something yet. Here's a chapter on pruning. Let me study it."
               So she did, and all to no purpose.
               Johnny and Kate stood idle for a while, and then Mary said slowly, "I think I see through it."
               Reading,—"The grape produces its fruit upon the wood of the current year. This grows upon the wood of the previous year. Therefore, in pruning, cut back to a good bud near the old wood. That is say, I suppose, the bunches hang on wood of the current year, whatever that may mean."
               "That's simple as pie-crust," said Kate. "See, there is a bad bunch still hanging on the vine. The shoot it grows upon must be what they call the current year's wood."
               
               "I don't see what currants have to do with it."
               Kate laughed. "You are a little goose, Johnny Wellson. Current year means this year."
               "Oh!"
               "And if I remember," said Mary, "when we were pinching the shoots last summer, I noticed that the bunches were hanging on the green and tender shoots that grew this season."
               "That's it! That's it!" said Johnny. "They are brown and stiff now, and all look alike. No wonder we could not tell 'em apart."
               "You are right. Now to work. The book says: 'Cut back to a good bud near the wood of the previous year.' In this fashion, I suppose."
               So saying, Mary took the knife and lopped off the shoot upon which the wilted bunch was hanging.
               "You've done it," cried Johnny. "See! there is the little stump as it is in the picture."
               The three crowded round, and discovered that, in cutting the shoot, about three inches remained growing on the stout stem from which it had started.
               "Wouldn't it look better if it were cut off close up to the old wood?"
               "Why, no, you would cut away the bud out of which the shoot that is to bear next year is to come. Now, according to my idea of it: all we have to do is to keep cutting ting away the shoots till we have only the thick canes or stems that grew last year, or the year before."
               Without further parley, Mary plied her knife quickly, and soon displayed before their astonished eyes, not a fan-shaped vine, but one having a single stalk dotted up and down the sides with little projecting spurs, or woody points. Each spur had a cluster of buds about it, giving assurance of a bountiful supply of bearing shoots for the next season.
               "Why!" exclaimed Kate. "I don't see what that was for. Why did not the gardener train them all fan-fashion?"
               "I'm sure I don't know; but it is plain he did not, for you can see that but one shoot grows from the root."
               The next vine was attacked, and proved that it, too, was only a single cane.
               "It seems the gardener trained our vines in two different ways. I can't imagine why."
               "Was it not to gain room? These two are planted close together at the end of the fence. Perhaps there was not room for a fan-shaped one."
               "You are right, Kate. That solves it. But come, it is getting dark. We can do no more to-day."
               Mary led the way; and Kate and Johnny followed after.
               Kate to her brother in a whisper: "Polly feels better to-day."
               "Course she does. Went out and did something. Nothing like working round out-of-doors for some folks."
               Johnny was a philosopher. There is nothing like healthy labor for minds disturbed by much brooding over disappointment.
               The next afternoon Kate and Johnny trimmed all the vines, and untying them from the trellis, allowed them to fall to the ground. (This trellis was attached to the fence to keep the vines away from the wood-work.) Then, copying the directions in the book, they fastened them flat to the soil, with pointed sticks driven down in this fashion—
               
               Here they would be secure from the wind, and buried safe under the snow when it came. Nothing more to be done to them till April.
               The writer sincerely hopes that in describing this pruning experience he has made the matter plain. There are many other ways of training and pruning the grape; but these he considers the most simple, and, for general use, the best. Should the reader prefer to grow his grapes to poles, instead of against a wall or fence, the single-cane plan will be found the easiest and best. If the vines are scarce, and fence-room plenty, the fan-shape would be preferable. Should the reader reply that he has no grape-vine of any kind, we can only say, get one. If you have no spot of ground to grow it in, cut an oil-cask in two, bore some holes in the bottom, and, procuring some soil from the nearest florist, grow it in that. Whatever you do, plant a vine.
               With the arrival of cold weather the ground froze up tight, and the season's work seemed finished. Yet one thing more remained to be done. Hiring a horse and hay-rigging, Johnny drove to the woods to gather leaves. He hired a boy to help him, and in the course of a day they procured dry leaves enough to cover the entire plantation.
               A load of loose brush was added, and the next day the plants were covered from sight, and the brush spread over all, to keep everything safe from the wind.
               The entire expense of this operation was just six dollars.
               The intelligent reader here wonders why this covering was delayed till the ground was frozen. If the leaves were to serve as a blanket to keep the plants warm, why was it not spread before cold weather?
               Simply because it was not to keep them warm, but cold. The shelter was not used to ward off the cold, but the heat. Having become well frozen the leaves were used to keep them so. It is not the extreme cold that injures, but the varying heat and cold of our uncertain climate,—the bright sun thawing out the soil one day, and the biting north wind freezing it the next; this alternate expansion by heat and contraction by cold is the cause of all the mischief. Better let them freeze hard, and then stay so till the warm weather really returns.
               A few days after these things the snow flew and winter began without.
               Within too. Our Mary did not seem to improve. She kept her room persistently, and refused every social invitation.
               "Ah! that careless, careless Johnny, to lose that precious note!" was her constant burden. But what mattered it? He, the absent one, wandered in unknown parts, and no sign or word had she received explaining his abrupt and mysterious departure, or even telling where he lingered. The garden had proved efficient in assisting them to maintain their position in society; but, alas! at what a heavy cost had it been accomplished.
               The snow lay thick and cold. December days were dull and dark. It was cloudy within and cloudy without.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               THINGS WAKE UP GENERALLY.
               THE winter slipped away and spring advanced. The Wellson prospects improved slowly, and things looked brighter. The returning sun seemed to revive all nature, and men became more hopeful and cheerful as the earth laid aside its snowy raiment and made up its face for a smile. Warmer airs from the far south stirred the snow-drops into life, and brought to Mary vague hints of coming joy. A bird sang in the pear-tree by her window. Perhaps it was a messenger from him who wandered. She flung up the sash to hear the new "spring song without words." Down in the garden she could hear the active Johnny at work in his strawberry plantation. She would go down and get a breath of the sweet air, and see what her brother was about.
               When she reached the garden she found Kate there also. Not an idler in the land either. She, stout and rosy girl that she was, illustrated the advantage of an out-of-door life, both in person and cheery good nature.
               "O Polly! have you seen 'em? Such splendid green shoots bursting through the ground. I can almost see the young blossoms. Look!"
               
               Throwing down the armful of sticks she held, she crushed away the leaves, and displayed one of the brown flusters of leaves where a strawberry plant had stood. From the centre a tiny green point thrust its head through the soil.
               "Very good, though I don't see the blossoms."
               "I did, I'm sure. I saw a plant that had one. Oh! they are coming, I know, and we shall have a mighty big crop."
               "What language, Kate! How can you?"
               Kate never replied, but gathering her bundle of brush together marched away toward the house, talking the while.
               "Oh! I know we'll do it this time. We will get our hundred dollars sure—and the grapes—and the pears; perhaps they will bear this year, and then—then we shall not have to move this year. Aren't you glad, Polly? I am."
               "Yes," said Mary, listlessly. "It will be well, I suppose."
               "You don't seem to care much."
               "No, I do not."
               Kate disappeared with her load, and Mary turned to Johnny.
               "What are you doing?"
               "Getting ready for the spring. Aren't you glad it's come, Polly?"
               "Yes," faintly.
               "I am. It's awful jolly to have the snow go. The strawberries will be here soon; besides, its good weather for base-ball."
               Johnny went on gathering up the leaves with his hands and crowding them into a basket. They were wet, heavy, and far from easy to handle.
               "Why do you do that? I should imagine they would serve as a mulch."
               "Mulch! What's that?" said Kate, just returning.
               "Anything placed on the ground around or over plants. The leaves were a mulch. When the berries ripen you will have to spread a mulch over the soil to keep them clean. That's why they are called strawberries,—berries that grow among straw, as straw was first used as a mulch."
               "Hear the girl!" cried Johnny. "One would think she had eaten two whole books on strawberry culture. Why did you not give us the benefit of your learning before?"
               Mary confessed that she had only read that much quite lately.
               More discussion ensued, and they decided to let the leaves remain where they were.
               Johnny went carefully over the bed and brushed away the thickest of the leaves around the plants, to give them a better chance to push through. The surplus was spread in the paths, to keep the berries clean. The rains of winter had beaten the leaves down flat, and they made a smooth, clean carpet over all. This prevented any cultivation of the soil; but the advantage gained by keeping the weeds away and the soil moist, more than restored the balance.
               Insensibly, the fresh air and new objects and interests had their effect upon our Mary, and she became brighter and better.
               The spring advanced rapidly, and every plant started into new and active life. As soon as they were fairly started, and about the time the forest trees put forth their leaves, the hydraulics were resorted to frequently with most astonishing results. How the things did grow, to be sure! Such splendid leaves and sturdy clusters of buds! Really, the prospect was very encouraging.
               The grapes, too, came in for a share of the attentions of our trio. At the suggestion of Mary, they removed the stakes, and fastened the long base shoots once more to the trellis. It was quite an undertaking, but time and patience are equal to anything.
               The routine of the garden for this spring was very simple. The planting was all done, and, as the strawberries occupied every available foot of ground, the young folks were relieved from all further trouble, and the actual amount of work to be done was extremely small. The mulch kept down the weeds, and beyond this, till the time came for gathering the new crop, there was little else to be done.
               As the blossom buds pushed out and lay thick and suggestive among the plants, the Wellson spirits rose. Even the toiler of the family was cheered at the sight of the expected crop, and still more at the bright and happy looks of the young people. The out-of-door life, and the interest excited, by having something to show for the labor of his hands, stirred to more active and uproariously jolly life, the sturdy young John, Jr. As for Kate, she was just merging into young womanhood, and perhaps her spirits were toned down slightly, yet the brilliant color and clear, healthy glow on her face showed that the out-of-door life was of benefit. Yes,—that's it: Work, out-of-doors; something to do in the real tangible world of nature,—that is the cure for many an ail and ill both mental and bodily. Her loveliness, Mary, seemed to think so. Her color returned, and though there was sometimes a shade of sadness in her eyes, she was generally her old serene and delightful self.
               So much for the strawberry garden as a medical prescription. The family doctor nodded his head, saying with a smile, "Nothing like a little out-of-door employment, Mrs. Wellson. Nothing like healthful work." [See Appendix C.]
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE STRAWBERRY SHOW AND WHAT CAME OF IT.
               THE Wellson kitchen. Mrs. Wellson, Johnny, and Mary, busily sorting and arranging heaps of ripe strawberries. The table is piled high with fruit, and a huge hamper stands loaded by the door. All is activity and bustle. A most tremendous crop of fruit, and the entire village wild to purchase it. Out in the garden two young girls, hired by the day, are picking as fast as their fingers can fly. In the village street are four private carriages drawn up in line, and just outside the back door, in the yard, is a broad table, made of boards supported on barrels. A white cloth is spread over it, and everything is as nice as a new pin. The blooming Kate, activity itself, is waiting upon half-a-dozen impatient people, who present baskets and tin kettles to be filled with the luscious fruit. Kate measures it out, a piled-up quart, at a time, and gives it to the various purchasers. Soon all the fruit on the table is gone and she runs to the house for more. Bursting into the room, she extends her hands stuffed with scrip.
               "Give me your money-box. Sold out. Some more berries, Johnny. They are going like hot cakes."
               "Hooray, Kate! Give it to em! More berries. Fly round, Mary! There's lots of folks coming."
               More people crowded into the little yard, and Kate grasped the huge hamper and went forth to meet the new demand. As she placed her load on the little counter, she glanced at the people. There were two elderly gentlemen, a young girl, and a young gentleman with only one arm. Kate did not recognize him at first, but as he drew near she saw who it was, and dropped her tin measure in a little fright.
               One of the elderly gentlemen offered a basket.
               "Give me four quarts, miss."
               Kate, with trembling fingers, and her thoughts in a perfect whirl, mechanically handed out two quarts, and said briefly:
               "Sixty cents, sir. Thirty cents a quart."
               "I said four quarts, if you please."
               "Oh! excuse me. I didn't think."
               While she measured out the rest, the two gentlemen fell to talking:—
               "Wellson hit the nail on the head this time."
               "Yes. They are the best berries I ever bought. I'm glad enough to pay the price. They are sure to be fresh and clean."
               "That is true, and our young lady gives us good measure. The idea of selling their surplus berries in this way is certainly a new one. I suppose Wellson makes a good thing of it. How much do you sell in a day, miss?"
               "About twenty-five dollars' worth. We could do better if we only had more land."
               "Don't think it, my dear. That never follows. It is the high culture of the small farm that is best. Had you more land, you would not cultivate it so thoroughly. Here is your money."
               Kate took the change, and then turned to her next customer. While she was serving him, the young gentleman stood aloof, looking gravely on.
               "What folly in me!" said he to himself. "Why should not they, or any one, do this? I fancy that nonsense is well knocked out of me, now that it is too late. My insane and foolish pride has done it all, and—well—I might try, at any rate. I'll do it."
               The other people were now served, and went away. Kate was in a perfect tremor of excitement. She managed to stammer out:—
               "Will you have any fruit, sir?"
               "Yes—no—why, yes,—I will, only. I have nothing to take it in."
               "Let me get you a basket," said Kate. Away she flew towards the house. As she pushed into the kitchen she cried, "O Mary! Mary!"
               She paused abruptly. Mary was not there.
               "Mary has gone to dress for the Strawberry Show. What do you want?"
               "Nothing,—only a basket."
               When she returned, she was surprised to find her father talking pleasantly with the young man.
               "When did you return?"
               "Only this morning."
               "Ah! your departure was sudden, and your return a surprise,—and a pleasure, I'm sure. We shall be glad to have you call."
               The young man looked as if he would be glad too, very.
               "Here's Kate," said her father, laying his hand on her fly-away hair, and smiling at her rosy face and bright eyes. "She is our gardener and saleswoman. Our wonderful success in our little garden is mainly owing to her efforts. She and Johnny have run the whole establishment."
               "Say Mary, too, father; she helped us whenever we had a hard place. Besides, it was her idea that we sell the berries in—"
               Suddenly she thought of something, and blushed scarlet. Her father looked amused, and the young man studied his boots intently.
               Just at this point Johnny appeared with another hamper of fruit. More people crowded into the yard, and in the new demand Kate forgot both her father and the young man.
               Five minutes after saw the berries all gone, and more customers waiting to be served. Kate turned the basket upside down and said:—
               "Sold out. All gone. More to-morrow." Still the carriages drew up at the gate, and the people streamed into the yard, asking for those extra fine, extra large, and every way extra, Wellson strawberries. There were no such berries in the market, and they were certainly worth double the price asked.
               But it could not be helped.
               "We have sold out," said Kate. "Glad to take your orders for to-morrow."
               Many left their orders, and at last they all departed. Kate, singing merrily to herself, began to fold up the cloth on her counter. Looking up, she beheld the young man writing a little note, with his left hand upon his knee. Soon it was done, and, folding the paper as best he could, he gave it to Kate, saying:—
               "Would you be so kind as to hand that to your sister, Miss Wellson?"
               "Oh, with pleasure," said Kate, blushing, and beaming radiantly upon him.
               She took the note and thrust it into her pocket. Just then more impatient people came for the wonderful Wellson strawberries.
               "All gone," said Kate.
               The people grumbled mildly, and then departed. Looking ing about for the young man, she found that he had disappeared.
               Kate seized her roll of cloth, made a grand flourish with it in the air, and said, "Hooray for the strawberry-bed! as Johnny says. It brings the money—and—Oh! I am so glad. Where can that blessed Mary be? I must find her this minute, and give her this precious note. I suppose she has gone to the Strawberry Show. I'll go too."
               The Wellson dining-room. Father and Mother Wellson studying a small account-book. No sorrowful looks now. The balance is on the other side; the result—happiness.
               "And it is our children who have done this."
               "Yes, the best of the whole affair is in our children. The money is well; but it is not all. Oh, not all. Think of our splendid boy, and Kate, too, the healthy and happy! And Mary. Happiness has come to her, too, I hope."
               "What do you mean, wife?"
               "Are you so blind? Have you not seen it?".
               "Really, no. It must be that I was much taken with my glorious Kate. Isn't she a treasure?"
               "Not one, my love, all are treasures;, and to think how what seemed a sorrow has turned to joy. Oh, that every one would lead their children to see the blessedness of honest work! But come, it is time to go, if we care to see the prizes given out."
               It was in the Town Hall. The whole village and his wife were in their Sunday best, and on its way to the Show. The local Horticultural Society had offered a tempting array of prizes for the best berries, and everybody was eager to see who had won them. Strawberry culture was practised quite generally in the country thereabout. Mary, with her father and mother, had gone before, and Kate, escorted by her brother, followed after.
               When they reached the door, they paused to read a flaming placard announcing the list of prizes.
               "Twenty dollars for the best basket of one variety. Ten dollars for the second best,—and, O Kate, they are going to give a silver cup for the three best baskets of any varieties. If we should get that, wouldn't it be fine?"
               "Yes," replied Kate, scornfully. "Some little child's plated cup. Who cares for that? I'd rather have the twenty dollars, any day."
               "Perhaps we may get it. Who knows? Our baskets were pretty fine, I can tell you. There were not many as good."
               With a good deal of excitement, and curious to see how things would turn out, they paid for their tickets and entered the hall. It was very warm and close. The people crowded round, and the village brass played in the most approved manner. Everybody talked as loud as they could, and altogether it was a very great occasion. Johnny pushed through the crowd, and dragged his sister after, as best he might. As for seeing anything, it was next to impossible.
               "Let's get up on the platform, Johnny. We can't see a thing here."
               "Come on, then."
               Suddenly the brass uproar ceased, and the vocal uproar, finding itself alone; dropped down also.
               Then there was a movement among the people, and our young folks found themselves pushed along towards the wall. The people about them were extra tall folks, and they could not see.
               "This is not lovely," said Kate. "Let us get up on this seat."
               With an effort Johnny climbed upon a settee standing against the wall, and then assisted Kate to mount beside him.
               "This is just gay," said Johnny. "We can see everybody."
               "Yes, and be seen. It's rather conspicuous. What would mother say, if she were to see us perched up here?"
               Johnny would have replied, but just then a big, burly man, with a rough, roaring voice, mounted the platform, and, gazing over the sea of heads, called the company to order.
               "They are going to give out the prizes. We shall have a splendid chance to see who gets 'em."
               The crowd became reasonably quiet, except around the edges, where certain boys in the veal period, and sundry juvenile couples, would persist in whispering.
               
               Then the president made the usual horticultural show-speech, which we will not report, as it was just like a dozen others you have no doubt heard or read.
               Then came the list of prizes to be awarded by the committee on fruit. The honorable officers on the stage, and the band listened with exemplary patience. Curiously enough, the list began at the little end, and the lucky person was requested to step up and receive from the president the prize. The small prizes were announced first, and as the list went on, our young people listened, in a flutter of excitement. If their baskets of fruit should draw a prize, how very splendid it would be!
               Nearer and nearer to the end came the list. As the five and ten dollar prizes were announced, a breeze of excitement swept over the assembly. Each one, as his name was announced, was congratulated by his neighbors, and a little buzz of talk spread through the company. The president paused. The last and highest prizes were reached.
               "For the best single basket, twenty dollars. To Master John Wellson, Jr."
               Kate gave a little scream, and then put her hand over her mouth. Instantly she dropped from her perch to the floor. She struck her knee on the seat, and the pain was sharp, but that was nothing. Only let her get down out of sight of all these people. How they did stare, to be sure! John, Jr., was bolder, and kept his place in spite of the five hundred pair of eyes levelled at; him. How quickly everybody found him out!
               "Make way for the boy," said a burly man near by.
               "Come, sonny. Go get your prize. You won it fairly. I've seen you at work, and you deserve it, because you did not mind the talk they made about you."
               Johnny climbed down, and, the crowd making a lane for him, he started to get his prize. Kate mustered courage to follow him. As she went along all sorts of remarks fell on her ear:—
               "Good for them! They done it theirselves. So much for not being afraid of work, nor of the mean talk."
               When they reached the front of the stage, Kate was surprised to see the faded little Widow Scrabbins and her gossipy friends; Farmer Gooding and his blooming daughters; a certain one-armed young man; and she even thought she saw her father and mother, both looking very radiant.
               The president leaned forward and said to Johnny—
               "Is your name Wellson?"
               "Yes, sir. John Wellson, Jr. I will take the prize."
               Kate pinched his arm, and the president laughed good-naturedly.
               "With pleasure. You have fairly won the prize. Such an industrious worker deserves this, and more."
               A new twenty-dollar bill was placed in his hands, and the people crowded round to congratulate him.
               
               "Let us go home, Kate. Come."
               Kate, beaming with happiness, and flushed with success, prepared to follow him. For a moment thoughts of the petty gossips and their doings flashed through her mind.
               "Where now are the folks that said such horrid things about us? They'd like the prize themselves, I suppose. But we'll forgive them. I'd forgive anybody, I feel so happy."
               Congratulations poured in upon them from every side. All thoughts of ill-will, towards even the Widow Scrabbins, fled before her present joy.
               The president called the people to order:—
               "Will the audience please give attention? There is one more prize. For the three best baskets of any kind,—a silver goblet, to Miss Kate Wellson."
               Every spark of color left her face. She was panic-stricken and wanted to fly, but could not. The crowd pressed closer round her, and a murmur of applause spread through the company.
               "Go get it, miss," said some one beside her. "Go get it."
               She tried to run away—and looked to Johnny for assistance. He was gone,—lost in the crowd.
               "Walk right up, miss, and take your prize," said several about her.
               "Take my arm, Miss Wellson. I will escort you."
               She looked up timidly, and saw beside her a certain young gentleman, with but one arm.
               She blushed scarlet. "Oh! that note. She had not delivered it yet."
               "Thank you, sir," she modestly said, took his proffered arm, and marched up to the platform in the company of the just returned squire's son.
               The people made way for them, and the beautiful silver cup was placed in her hands.
               "How lovely! Isn't it beautiful? Won't Mary be glad to see it?"
               The arm on which she leaned trembled slightly, and her cavalier turned his face away. Full of her wonderful experience, she went on talking gayly.
               "Oh, how perfectly splendid! The very thing sister was wanting for a spoon-holder."
               The young man looked at her curiously.
               "Is your sister going to begin house-keeping?"
               "Oh, dear! no. Ah! there she is!"
               "Where?" said the young man.
               "Just by the door. Oh, she has gone, the little goosie! She has run away. Come, wouldn't you like to help me find her?"
               "With pleasure. May I not escort you from the hall?"
               "Oh, yes, all the way home if you like," said the happy Kate. To be escorted through the company by the squire's son, and to allow all to see the prize cup, was certainly the happiest event in her life. She was quite upset, and was not sure what she did say.
               Her good-nature fairly bubbled over, and with hearty gayety she beguiled the way, leading the young man,—to happiness—or sorrow—which?
               As they drew near home, Kate suddenly remembered the note in her pocket.
               "Oh! what shall I do? I don't know that you will forgive me."
               "Why not? What for?"
               "The note. You see I have not been able to see her yet; and then there were so many things going on, really, I quite forgot all about it."
               "Don't trouble yourself, Miss Wellson. No doubt you would have delivered it if you had seen her. Yet, now I think, you may give it to me, and I'll see her myself."
               "Oh, no, I can't really. We—that is, Johnny—lost a note once that some one gave him for Mary, and she was dreadfully sorry about it for a long time."
               "Was she, indeed?"
               Just at this point they reached the Wellson gate. Kate, all eagerness to show her prize, was on the point of rushing into the house in her usual impetuous manner.
               "You will not forget the note," said the young man.
               "Oh, no indeed; but aren't you coming in? Mary will be so gla—"
               She put her hand over her mouth suddenly, looked hard at the silver goblet for a moment, and then with ready wit held open the gate. With a smile she said:—
               "Come in."
               At this moment the uproarious Johnny appeared, accompanied by the man who kept the village hotel.
               "Yes, sir," said Johnny, "you may have 'em and welcome. The folks in the hall will give 'em to you, if you send the baskets home."
               The man took out his purse, and gave Johnny a five-dollar bill, and then went away.
               The excitable boy, without noticing the arrival, flung his hat in the air, and cried out, "Three cheers for the strawberry garden!"
               "Hooray!" cried Johnny.
               "Hurrah!" cried the young man, waving his cap.
               "Hurrah, boys!" said Kate, displaying the glittering prize.
               Some one in the house, hearing the noise, drew up a curtain and looked out. Johnny caught sight of the goblet, and was transfixed in astonishment. Somebody else saw something; and—four people, "lost in wonder, love, and praise." Tableau.
               Two hours later. The twilight was fading, and over the tall house-tops rose the summer moon. Two young people walking down the narrow garden-path among the strawberries. How very slow they did walk, to be sure! They had so much to say to each other.
               
               "And you will forgive me?"
               "O Edward, you know I will. I never doubted you an instant."
               "What you say makes me the more sad. I doubted myself. Remember my mother, and her wretched teachings. She it was, who, hearing the distorted stories of your doings, made me believe it were dishonorable to work with one's hands. In my vanity, I associated debasement and loss of all that is best in a young lady, with the idea of her being at work like a common laborer."
               "And you failed to see that— 
                     
                        "'Where love's the cause,
                        The meanest work's divine.'"
                     
                  
               
               "I did, and cannot cease to blame myself."
               She placed her hand on his mouth, and said:—
               "It is more blessed to forgive than be forgiven. Now tell me how it happened that you ran away, and never sent me a single line for all those long months, and then let me tell you a fable."
               "I was called away to New York, then sailed for South America very suddenly on business. I did write to you, and gave the note to your brother. As for further correspondence, another time I will tell the long and dreary story. The accident which cost me my arm, and the two occasions when I was ill, explain in part. The rest another time. The fable, please."
               "Once upon a time, a man met with some injury, and his neighbors reported that he had been attacked in the woods by twenty black crows and nearly beaten to death by their strong and ragged wings. How the little black spot on his forehead grew to cover his whole face; how he looked as black as a crow; how a crow chased him; how two crows had pursued him; how the two crows became twenty, and how, what was a mere scratch because it was black, grew to this formidable history, would make a queer study for a student of human nature. Such is gossip."
               "Wisdom itself. Come, my dear, let us cross the garden wall, and wander together in the open fields for a few moments. The night is fine and the moon is bright."
               They wandered—for a lifetime.
               
               Six months later. A very strong fragrance as of tube-roses and orange-blossoms pervades the Wellson mansion.
               The horticultural season is over, and Johnny is counting his gains in his own room. Here is the account for the season:— 
                     
                        Received last year
                        $79 10
                     
                     
                        Received for 2,082 qts. of strawberries, at 30 cents
                        624 60
                     
                     
                        " " 400 lbs. of grapes, at 10 cents
                        40 00
                     
                     
                        " " lot of pears
                        15 00
                     
                     
                        " " sale of prize fruit
                        5 00
                     
                     
                        Prize
                        20 00
                     
                     
                        
                        $783 70
                     
                     
                     
                        Cost of original planting, including labor and plants:—
                        
                     
                     
                        Labor of man one week, $12 00; plants, $30 00; mulch, $6 00,
                        48 00
                     
                     
                        Interest on 30,000 feet of land, at 6 cents a foot, for two years,
                        108 20
                     
                     
                        Cost of culture and use of fixtures,
                        12 90
                     
                     
                        Cost of vines and culture,
                        60 00
                     
                     
                        
                        $229 10
                     
                     
                        Grand total result
                        $554 60
                     
                  
               
               As the account is finished, Johnny jumps up and cries, "Hooray! Hooray! We have done it this time, sure."
               The door opens suddenly, and a vision of feminine loveliness, arrayed in gorgeous apparel, as for some festive occasion, enters.
               "Look at that, Kate. Look at that."
               Kate took the proffered sheet gingerly in her kid-gloved hands. "Yes, yes, Johnny, I see. It's perfectly splendid, but, oh, dear, aren't you dressed for church yet? The carriages will be here in half an hour."
               "I know it. I'll be ready. But just think of the strawberry-garden! Isn't it jolly?"
               "Yes, I see; but you must hurry. Indeed, you must. There's mother calling. I must run."
               And she ran away, leaving the door open behind her. A delicious odor of mingled flowers, cake and coffee floated into the room.
               "Hi!" said the boy, a boy still; "that smells good. What a stunning wedding sister Mary is going to have, to be sure! Now John Wellson, Jr., get into your new coat with tails, and prepare for a very grand occasion."
            
         
      
      
         
            APPENDIX.
            
               APPENDIX A.
               IT may be well to state that the kinds of strawberries used by Mr. Harker were the Brighton Pine and the Lady of the Lake, two varieties originating in his own State, Mass.
               They are not offered as the best, but as illustrating the only principle that should guide the grower in selecting the kinds most suitable for him. Grow those kinds known to succeed best in your own neighborhood.
            
            
               APPENDIX B.
               Domestic waste. By this is meant all the liquid refuse of every kind from the house. On the Wellson estate every drop of water from, the sink, the bath-room, and water-closet was collected in a large cistern sunk in the ground at a short distance from the house. This mixture was used as described, and proved efficient in keeping the land up to a highly fertile point. The pump was used regularly summer and winter, and no inconvenience resulted to anybody. In winter it ran away under the snow, and, in summer, advantage was taken of a fall of rain, to wash it into the soil.
               Very few people are aware of the great waste in our households. Were it all saved, the result in abundant crops would astonish even practical gardeners. This plan is in operation at the Horticultural School with which the writer is connected, though in a somewhat different way. Instead of using the material in a liquid form, absorbents are used, and the result is an abundant supply of fertilizers for garden purposes at a very low cost.
               The writer himself uses a chain-pump, as described in this chapter, in the business operations of the gardening firm, to which he belongs, at West Newton, Mass.
            
            
               APPENDIX C.
               The after culture of the strawberry plantation was this: The leaves that lay thickly scattered over the soil decayed, and as soon as the crop was gone they were lightly forked into the ground. Through the summer and fall frequent stirrings of the ground and the persistent cutting away of all the runners made the most of the work. The rest was merely to keep things clean and nice.
               The work for the next season was but a repetition of this, with one exception,—when the crop was picked, the whole affair was ploughed up, and the land given over to some other crop. Whether the land was ever planted with strawberries again is more than can be said, as the writer has not visited the Wellson family since.
            
         
         
            
               How I Managed My Children
               FROM INFANCY TO MARRIAGE.
               BY MRS. WARREN.
               Neat Paper Covers. Price, 50 Cents.
               MRS. WARREN, an English lady of sterling sense, large observation and experience, is awakening a deep interest in the now almost "lost art" of managing a house well upon a small income.
               Her third book, "How I Managed My Children from Infancy to Marriage," is a perfect little romance, and has great popularity in England, TWENTY THOUSAND COPIES having been sold already.
               In America this must prove her most successful book, as it is universal in its application, and the subject is one in which the deepest interest is felt.
               
                  A noble Christian mother tells us how she successfully reared up eight children, carrying them through the perils of infancy, and the impulsiveness of childhood, directing and developing their physical, mental, and religious natures, and prepared them for useful and creditable positions in life.
               The joys, sorrows, and trials, which are the common lot of every loving household, are feelingly told, and the benediction of "Well done, good and faithful mother," springs up in every reader's heart as the book is closed.
               These three volumes form a complete system of Home Economy.
            
            
               
               DIXIE COOKERY;
               OR,How I Managed my Table for Twelve Years.
               A PRACTICAL COOK-BOOK,
               By MRS. BARRINGER, of North Carolina. Neat paper covers. Price, 38 cts.
               This little book is destined to have a very wide circulation in all parts of the United States.
               This book is entirely practical—nothing else. It contains no theoretic dissertations on the culinary art, but is made up of receipts which have been my daily assistants for twelve years, in the management of my house, and the preparation of various dishes served for large and small companies.
               It treats of the preparation of 
                     Soups, Fish, Meat, Poultry, etc.;
                     Vegetables, Pickles, Catsups, etc.;
                     Bread, Pastry, Puddings, etc.;
                     Cakes, Preserves, Jellies, etc.;
                     Syrups, Creams, Cordials, etc.;
                   with a few miscellaneous receipts added, relating to care of stores and house generally. A regular Breakfast-cake of George Washington's, obtained from a relative of his in Virginia, will attract great attention.
               At the repeated solicitations of friends, living in all parts of the "South," I have decided to give this private experience of twelve years' daily practice to the public, and ask those who are interested, to look with favor on "Dixie Cookery."
            
            
               
               How I Managed My House
               ON ¥200 A YEAR.
               BY MRS. WARREN.
               Neat Paper Covers. - - - Price, 60 Cents.
               AN English lady, of sterling sense, large observation and experience, is the author of three little volumes which must prove a help and comfort to every wearied housewife who encounters them, and afford most useful limits to all whose life-work it is to make a happy home for loved ones.
               This fascinating little autobiography of married life has had an unparalleled success in England, THIRTY-SIX THOUSAND COPIES having been sold in the short space of one year. It is as charming a story to read as its companion, "Our Farm of Four Acres, and the Money we made by it," and, like that, will be equally popular in America, although neither were written expressly for this meridian. ¥200, or $1,000, represents the income of a very large class in this country.
               The earnest wish of every young wife is to have a house of her own, and a chance to show her husband how well she can keep it. The inability to get, or retain, good "help" often proves a serious drawback in the beginning.
               Mrs. Warren's aim in this story is to impart, in a pleasing manner, a practical knowledge of the essential requisites for successful house-keeping with a moderate expenditure of money, and to advise and instruct the inexperienced young wife, so that she, and not the servant, shall rule the house.
               The spirit of the book is universally needed just now. The writer is full of a frank good-humor and practical philosophy. She inspires one with courage, and teaches us to build up a success from every failure, or, as she facetiously expresses it, "To fall always on our feet."
               If every young house-keeper will read this "Experience" thoughtfully, and embody in her daily life the spirit (not the letter) it teaches, she will find her burden lightened, her trials less, and her home made more joyous and attractive.
            
            
               A Simple Flower Garden for every Country Home,
               BY CHARLES BARNARD.
               A neat, 12mo, paper Book. Price, 25 cents.
               The object has been to present simple and concise directions for a few of the more common flowers; to make it A Practical Guide for every Lady, And to show that even with the expenditure of a very small sum of money, on a very limited space of ground, flowers can be had in abundance.
               The love of flowers and the taste for gardening afford. the greatest amount of elegant and harmless pleasure.
               A SIMPLE FLOWER GARDEN Is the richest ornament a country home can have, no matter how limited is the space allotted to it.
               It beautifies and adorns the humblest surroundings. Wherever you see it, you may be sure refined tastes dwell there.
               Every Lady her own Flower Gardener.
               "It will not be the fault of Mr. Charles Barnard, or of Loring, if every patch of ground about here does not blossom and bear with flowers and fruit; for certainly the little books on small gardening which Loring publishes are attractive enough to set us all at work with hoe and trowel. The last is called A Simple Flower Garden for Country Homes, And is, as its title further states, a practical guide for every lady. The directions are plain and simple, and withal very full and complete, giving the work for every month in the year, by which flowers, in the garden and in the house, may be kept and enjoyed perennially. It is a neat little hand-book, and will put many people in the way of getting a pleasure out of their small plots of ground which they never before suspected."—Boston Post.
               "It is the most helpful guide to simple flower gardening that I have seen," writes a lady of great experience in these matters.
               A Simple Flower Garden.
               "Mr. Barnard writes for rural readers, and particularly for women. He tells them how to start a flower garden; what it will cost, and how to stock it in order to have flowers the whole year. This is information desired by all who love flowers. It is given in chapters, devoted to the months of April forward, and is simple, practical, and tasteful. Those whose grounds are limited will find it just what they want."—Philadelphia North American and U. S. Gazette.
            
         
      
   
